
























32. 约拿书 Jonah
约拿书 Jonah 第 1 章
1:1 耶和华的话临到亚米太的儿子约拿，说，
Now the word of Jehovah came to Jonah the son of Amittai, saying,
1:2 你起来往尼尼微大城去，向那城的居民呼喊，因为他们的恶已经达到我面前。
Arise, go to Nineveh, the great city, and cry out against it, for their evil has come up before Me.
1:3 约拿却起来，逃往他施去躲避耶和华的面；他下到约帕，遇见一只船，要往他施去。他就给了船价，下到船里，要与船上的人同往他施去，躲避耶和
华的面。
But Jonah rose up to flee to Tarshish from the presence of Jehovah, and he went down to Joppa and found a ship going to Tarshish. So he paid the fare for it and
went down into it to go with them to Tarshish from the presence of Jehovah.
1:4 然而耶和华使海中刮起大风，海就风浪大作，船几乎破坏。
But Jehovah hurled a great wind toward the sea, and there was a great tempest on the sea, and the ship seemed to be about to break up.
1:5 水手便惧怕，各人哀求自己的神。他们将船上的物件抛在海中，为要使船轻些。约拿却已下到底舱，躺卧沉睡。
Then the mariners became afraid, and each called out to his god. And they cast out the equipment that was on the ship into the sea to lighten themselves of it.
But Jonah had gone down into the innermost part of the vessel and lain down and fallen fast asleep.
1:6 船长到他那里对他说，你怎么还这样沉睡呢？起来，呼求你的神。或者神顾念我们，使我们不至灭亡。
So the ship captain approached him and said to him, How can you be fast asleep? Arise, call on your God. Perhaps God will give thought to us, and we will not
perish.
1:7 船上的人彼此说，来罢，我们掣签，好知道这灾临到我们是因谁的缘故；于是他们掣签，掣出约拿来。
And each man said to his companion, Come, let us cast lots that we may know on whose account this misfortune has befallen us. So they cast lots, and the lot
fell on Jonah.
1:8 众人对他说，请你告诉我们，这灾临到我们是因谁的缘故？你以何事为业？你从那里来？你是那一国，属那一族的人？
Then they said to him, Tell us now, On whose account has this misfortune befallen us? What is your occupation? And where do you come from? What is your
country? And of what people are you?
1:9 他说，我是希伯来人；我敬畏耶和华，那造沧海和旱地之天上的神。
And he said to them, I am a Hebrew, and I fear Jehovah, the God of the heavens, who made the sea and the dry land.
1:10 那些人就大大惧怕，对他说，你作的是什么事呢？原来那些人已经知道他躲避耶和华的面，因为他告诉了他们。
And the men became greatly afraid and said to him, What is this that you have done? For the men knew that he was fleeing from the presence of Jehovah,
because he had told them so.
1:11 他们问他说，我们当向你怎样行，使海为我们平静下来呢？这是因为海越发翻腾。
And they said to him, What shall we do with you that the sea may be quiet for us? For the sea grew more and more tempestuous.
1:12 他对他们说，你们将我抬起来，抛进海里，海就会为你们平静下来；我知道你们遭这大风浪，是因我的缘故。
Then he said to them, Lift me up and cast me into the sea, and the sea will be quiet for you. For I know that it is on my account that this great tempest has come
upon you.
1:13 然而那些人竭力摇桨，要回到旱地，却是不能，因为海越发向他们翻腾。
Nevertheless the men rowed hard to get back to the dry land, but they could not, because the sea grew more and more tempestuous against them.
1:14 他们便呼求耶和华说，耶和华阿，我们恳求你，不要因这人的性命使我们灭亡；不要使流无辜血的罪归与我们；因为你耶和华是照自己所喜悦的行事。
And they cried out to Jehovah and said, Ah, Jehovah, let us not perish, we pray, for this man's life, and do not put innocent blood upon us; for You, Jehovah, have
done as You pleased.
1:15 他们遂将约拿抬起，抛进海里，海的怒涛就止息了。
Then they lifted Jonah up and cast him into the sea, and the sea ceased its raging.
1:16 那些人便大大敬畏耶和华，向耶和华献祭，并且许愿。
And the men were greatly afraid of Jehovah, and they offered a sacrifice to Jehovah and vowed vows.
1:17 耶和华安排一条大鱼吞了约拿，约拿在鱼腹中三日三夜。
And Jehovah prepared a great fish to swallow Jonah up, and Jonah was in the stomach of the fish for three days and three nights.
约拿书 Jonah 第 2 章
2:1 约拿从鱼腹中祷告耶和华他的神，
Then Jonah prayed to Jehovah his God from the stomach of the fish,
2:2 说，我因急难呼求耶和华，祂就应允我；我从阴间的深处呼救，你就听了我的声音。
And he said, I called out because of my distress To Jehovah, and He answered me; From the belly of Sheol I cried out for help; You heard my voice.
2:3 你将我投下深渊，到了海心；洪流环绕我；你的波浪洪涛，都漫过我身。
You flung me into the depths, into the heart of the sea, And the flood surrounded me; All Your breakers and Your billows Passed over me.
2:4 我说，我从你眼前虽被驱逐，我仍要仰望你的圣殿。
Therefore I said, I have been driven out From before Your eyes; Yet I will look again Toward Your holy temple.
2:5 诸水环绕我，几乎淹没我；深渊围住我，海草缠绕我的头。
Water encompassed me, even to my soul; The deep surrounded me; Seaweed was wrapped about my head.
2:6 我下到海中的山根；地的门闩将我永远拦住。耶和华我的神阿，你却将我的性命从坑中救上来。
To the bottom of the sea mountains I went down; The earth with its bars was around me forever. Then You have brought up my life from the pit, O Jehovah my
God.
2:7 我的魂在我里面发昏的时候，我就想念耶和华；我的祷告进入你的圣殿，达到你面前。
When my soul fainted within me, I remembered Jehovah, And my prayer came to You In Your holy temple.
871
2:8 那些尊奉虚无不实之神的人，离弃主对他们的慈爱；
Those who regard empty vanities Forsake the lovingkindness to them;
2:9 但我必用感谢的声音献祭与你；我所许的愿，我必偿还。拯救属于耶和华。
But I will sacrifice to You With the voice of thanksgiving; That which I have vowed I will fully pay. Salvation is of Jehovah.
2:10 耶和华吩咐鱼，鱼就把约拿吐在旱地上。
And Jehovah spoke to the fish, and it vomited Jonah out onto the dry land.
约拿书 Jonah 第 3 章
3:1 耶和华的话第二次临到约拿，说，
Then the word of Jehovah came to Jonah a second time, saying,
3:2 起来，往尼尼微大城去，向那城的居民宣告我所要吩咐你宣告的话。
Arise, go to Nineveh, the great city; and proclaim to it the proclamation that I will speak to you.
3:3 约拿便照耶和华的话起来，往尼尼微去。这尼尼微是极大的城，要三日才能走完。
So Jonah arose and went to Nineveh according to the word of Jehovah. Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great city, a three days' journey in size.
3:4 约拿进城走了一日，宣告说，再等四十日，尼尼微必倾覆了！
And Jonah began to go through the city a day's journey and cried out and said, Yet forty days and Nineveh will be overturned!
3:5 尼尼微人信服神，便宣告禁食，从最大的到至小的都穿上麻衣。
And the men of Nineveh believed God, and they proclaimed a fast and put on sackcloth, from the greatest of them even to the least of them.
3:6 这话传到尼尼微王那里，他就从宝座上起来，脱下朝服，披上麻布，坐在炉灰中。
And the word reached the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne and put away his majestic clothes from him and covered himself with sackcloth and sat
in ashes.
3:7 他又发出通告，使人在尼尼微城，凭王和大臣之令宣告说，
And he issued a proclamation and declared in Nineveh by the decree of the king and his great men, saying, Let neither man nor beast nor herd nor flock taste
anything; let them not feed, nor let them drink water.
3:8 人和牲畜、牛羊，都不可尝什么；不可吃什么，也不可喝水。人与牲畜都当披上麻布，人要切切呼求神。各人要回转，离开恶的行径，丢弃手中的强
暴。
And let man and beast be covered in sackcloth, and let them call to God strongly. And let each turn from his evil way and from the violence that is in his hands.
3:9 或者神转意后悔，不发烈怒，使我们不至灭亡，也未可知。
Who knows whether God will turn and repent, and will turn from His burning anger so that we do not perish?
3:10 于是神察看他们所作的，见他们回转，离开恶的行径，祂就后悔，不把所说的灾祸降与他们了。
And God saw their deeds, that they turned from their evil way, and God repented for the evil that He said He would do to them; and He did not do it.
约拿书 Jonah 第 4 章
4:1 约拿对这事大大不悦，并且发怒。
But it displeased Jonah greatly, and he was angry.
4:2 他就祷告耶和华说，耶和华阿，我在本地的时候，岂不是这样说么？我知道你是有恩典、有怜恤的神，不轻易发怒，有丰盛的慈爱，并且后悔不降所
说的灾，所以我急速逃往他施去。
And he prayed to Jehovah and said, Ah, Jehovah, was this not what I said when I was still in my land? Therefore I anticipated it by fleeing to Tarshish, for I know
that You are a gracious and compassionate God, long-suffering and abundant in lovingkindness and repentant of evil.
4:3 耶和华阿，现在求你取我的命罢，因为我死了比活着还好。
And now, Jehovah, take my life, I pray, from me, for it is better for me to die than to live.
4:4 耶和华说，你这样发怒合理么？
And Jehovah said, Do you do well to be angry?
4:5 于是约拿出城，坐在城的东边。他在那里为自己搭了一座棚，坐在棚的荫下，要看看那城究竟如何。
Then Jonah went out from the city and sat to the east of the city. And he made a booth for himself there and sat underneath it in the shade until he could see
what would happen to the city.
4:6 耶和华神安排一棵蓖麻，使其长起来高过约拿，影儿遮盖他的头，救他脱离苦楚。约拿因这棵蓖麻大大喜乐。
And Jehovah God prepared a castor-oil tree; and it came up over Jonah to be a shade over his head, that it might deliver him from his misfortune. And Jonah
was exceedingly glad because of the tree.
4:7 次日黎明，神却安排一条虫子，咬这蓖麻，以致枯槁。
But God prepared a worm when the dawn came up the next day, and it struck the tree, and the tree withered.
4:8 日头出来的时候，神安排炎热的东风。日头曝晒约拿的头，他就发昏。他为自己求死，说，我死了比活着还好。
And when the sun rose, God prepared a sultry east wind. And the sun beat down on Jonah's head, and he fainted. And he requested for himself that he might
die, and said, It is better for me to die than to live.
4:9 神对约拿说，你因这棵蓖麻发怒合理么？他说，我发怒以至于死，都是合理的。
And God said to Jonah, Do you do well to be angry about the tree? And he said, I do well to be angry unto death.
4:10 耶和华说，这蓖麻不是你劳苦栽种的，也不是你使它长大的；一夜生长，一夜枯死，你尚且怜惜；
And Jehovah said, You had pity on the tree that you did not labor for nor cause to grow, which came into being overnight and perished overnight;
4:11 何况这尼尼微大城，其中不能分辨右手和左手的有十二万多人，并有许多牲畜，我岂能不怜惜呢？
And I, should I not have pity on Nineveh, the great city, in which are more than a hundred and twenty thousand people who cannot discern between their right
hand and their left, and many cattle?
872
33. 弥迦书 Micah
弥迦书 Micah 第 1 章
1:1 当犹大王约坦、亚哈斯、希西家在位的日子，摩利沙人弥迦得了耶和华的话，就是他所看见，关于撒玛利亚和耶路撒冷的异象。
The word of Jehovah which came to Micah the Morashtite in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, which he saw concerning Samaria and
Jerusalem.
1:2 万民哪，你们都要听；地和其中所充满的，也都要侧耳听；主耶和华要见证你们的不是，主要从祂的圣殿见证你们的不是。
Hear, all you peoples, And give heed, O earth and its fullness; And let the Lord Jehovah be a witness against you, The Lord from His holy temple.
1:3 看哪，耶和华从自己的地方出来，降临步行地的高处。
For Jehovah is about to come forth from His place, And He will come down and tread upon the high places of the earth.
1:4 众山在祂以下必镕化，诸谷必崩裂，如蜡化在火前，如水冲下山坡。
And the mountains will be melted under Him, And the valleys will be cleft, Like wax before fire, Like water poured down a slope.
1:5 这都因雅各的过犯，因以色列家的罪。雅各的过犯在那里？岂不是在撒玛利亚么？犹大的邱坛在那里？岂不是在耶路撒冷么？
All this is because of the transgression of Jacob And because of the sins of the house of Israel. What is the transgression of Jacob? Is it not Samaria? And what
are the high places of Judah? Are they not Jerusalem?
1:6 所以我必使撒玛利亚变为田野的乱堆，作为栽培葡萄园之处；也必将她的石头倒在谷中，露出她的根基来。
Therefore I will make Samaria A heap of ruins in a field, Places for the planting of vineyards; And I will pour her stones down into the valley And uncover her
foundations.
1:7 她一切雕制的偶像必被打碎，她作妓女所得的财物必被火烧，她所有的偶像我必毁灭；因为从妓女雇价聚来的，终必归为妓女的雇价。
And all her engraved idols will be smashed, And all her gifts for harlotry will be burned with fire, And all her images I will make a desolation; For from the harlot's
hire she has gathered them, And unto the harlot's hire they will return.
1:8 申言者说，因此我必悲恸哀号，赤脚露体而行；又要呼号如野狗，哀鸣如鸵鸟。
Because of this I will wail and howl; I will go about barefoot and naked. I will make a wailing like the jackals And a lamentation like the ostriches.
1:9 因为撒玛利亚的伤痕无法医治，延及犹大，达到我民的城门，达到耶路撒冷。
For her wound is incurable, For it has come as far as Judah; It reaches as far as the gate of my people, As far as Jerusalem.
1:10 不要在迦特报告这事，总不要哭泣。我在伯亚弗拉辊于灰尘之中。
Do not declare it in Gath; Do not weep at all. In Beth-le-aphrah I rolled myself in the dust.
1:11 居住沙斐的女子阿，你们自己要赤身蒙羞过去；居住撒南的女子没有出来；在伯以薛有哀号，以致你们无可倚靠。
Pass away on your own, O inhabitress of Shaphir, In shameful nakedness; The inhabitress of Zaanan Has not gone forth; The wailing of Beth-ezel Will take away
from you the staying of the calamity.
1:12 居住玛律的女子，忧急切望，要得好处，因为灾祸从耶和华那里降到耶路撒冷的城门。
For the inhabitress of Maroth Waits in pain for good, For evil has come down from Jehovah To the gate of Jerusalem.
1:13 居住拉吉的女子阿，要用快马套车。锡安女子的罪，由你而起；以色列的过犯，在你那里显出。
Bind the chariot to the steeds, O inhabitress of Lachish. She was the beginning of sin to the daughter of Zion, For the transgressions of Israel were found in you.
1:14 因此，你要将分手的礼物送给摩利设迦特：亚革悉的各家，必用诡诈待以色列诸王。
Therefore you will give a parting gift To Moresheth-gath: The houses of Achzib will be a deception To the kings of Israel.
1:15 居住玛利沙的女子阿，我必使那霸占你的来到你这里；以色列的荣耀必达到亚杜兰。
Further, I will bring upon you the possessor, O inhabitress of Mareshah; The glory of Israel will come As far as Adullam.
1:16 你要为你所喜爱的儿女剪除你的头发，使头光秃，要大大的光秃，如同秃鹰，因为他们都被掳去，离开了你。
Shave yourself and cut off your hair For the children of your delights; Enlarge your baldness like an eagle, For they have gone from you into captivity.
弥迦书 Micah 第 2 章
2:1 祸哉，那些在床上图谋罪孽、造作奸恶的！天一发亮，因手有能力，就行出来了。
Woe to those who devise wickedness And who prepare evil upon their beds! In the light of the morning they do it Because it is in the power of their hand to do so.
2:2 他们贪图田地就抢夺，贪图房屋便强取；他们欺压人，霸占房屋和产业。
And they covet fields and seize them, And houses, and take them away; And they oppress a person and his house, And a man and his inheritance.
2:3 所以耶和华如此说，我筹画灾祸降与这族，你们的颈项必不能从这灾祸挪开，你们也不能昂首而行，因为这是灾祸的时候。
Therefore thus says Jehovah, I am now devising evil against this family, From which you will not remove your necks; And you will not go about haughtily, For it is
an evil time.
2:4 到那日必有人用比喻的话论到你们，唱起悲惨的哀歌，说，我们全然毁灭了；耶和华将我百姓的分转归别人；何竟将这分从我挪去！祂将我们的田地
分给悖逆的人。
In that day they will take up a proverb concerning you, And they will lament a lamenting lament; they will say, We are utterly ruined; He has changed the portion
of my people. How He removes it from me! He has apportioned our fields to the rebellious.
2:5 所以在耶和华的会中你必没有人拈阄拉准绳。
Therefore you will have no one who casts the line by lot In the congregation of Jehovah.
2:6 他们申言说，你们不可申言。真申言者若不申言论这些事，羞辱就不会离去。
Do not prophesy, they prophesy. If they do not prophesy concerning these things, The reproaches will not be turned back.
2:7 雅各家阿，岂可说，耶和华的灵是急躁的么？这些是祂的作为么？我耶和华的言语，岂不是与行动正直的人有益么？
Will it be said, O house of Jacob, Is the Spirit of Jehovah hasty? Are these His doings? Do not My words benefit Him who walks uprightly?
2:8 然而近来我的民兴起如仇敌；你们从那些安然经过、不愿打仗之人身上剥去外衣。
But recently My people Have risen up as an enemy; You strip away the mantle From off the garment Of those who pass by securely, Those who turn away from
conflict.
2:9 你们将我民中的妇人，从她们安乐的家中赶出，又将我的尊荣从她们的小孩子永远夺去。
873
The women of My people you cast out, From their pleasant houses; From their young children you take away My splendor forever.
2:10 你们起来，去罢，这不是你们安息之所，因为污秽带来毁灭，且是严重的毁灭。
Arise and go, For this is not your resting place, Because of the uncleanness That brings destruction, indeed grievous destruction.
2:11 若有人追随空话和虚假，用谎言说，我要向你们申言，论到淡酒和浓酒；那人就必作这民的申言者。
If a man going about After wind and falsehood lies, saying, I will prophesy to you Concerning wine and liquor; He would indeed become a prophet of this people.
2:12 雅各家阿，我必要聚集你们众人，必要招聚以色列余剩的人。我要把他们安置在一起，如波斯拉的羊，如草场中的羊群；他们因为人数众多，就必大
大喧哗。
I will surely gather all of you, O Jacob; I will surely assemble the remnant of Israel. I will place them together like the sheep of Bozrah, Like the flock in the midst of
its pasture; They will make much noise because of the many men.
2:13 冲破城的人在他们前面上去；他们冲破，穿过城门，从城门出去；他们的王在前面行，耶和华在前头引导他们。
He who breaks through goes up before them; They break through and pass through the gate, And they go forth through it. And their King goes forth before them;
Indeed Jehovah is at their head.
弥迦书 Micah 第 3 章
3:1 我说，雅各的首领，以色列家的官长阿，你们要听：你们不当知道公平么？
And I said, Hear now, you heads of Jacob And you rulers of the house of Israel: Is it not for you To know justice?
3:2 你们恨恶良善，喜爱邪恶；从人身上剥皮，从人骨头上剔肉；
You who hate good And love evil, You who tear away their skin from off them And their flesh from off their bones,
3:3 吃我民的肉，剥他们的皮；打折他们的骨头，分成块子像要下锅，又像釜中的肉。
And who devour the flesh of My people And strip off their skin from off them And break their bones in pieces And chop them as for the pot And like meat in a
cauldron.
3:4 那时这些人必哀求耶和华，祂却不应允他们；那时祂必照他们所行的恶事，向他们掩面。
Then they will cry out to Jehovah, But He will not answer them; Indeed He will hide His face from them at that time, Just as they were evil in their doings.
3:5 论到使我民走错路的申言者，他们牙齿有所嚼的时候，就喊叫说，平安了；若有人不给他们口中有可吃的，他们就预备与他争战；耶和华如此说，
Thus says Jehovah concerning the prophets Who cause My people to err, Who, when they have something to bite with their teeth, Cry, Peace, But if there is one
who does not give something for their mouths, They prepare for war against him.
3:6 所以你们必遭遇黑夜，没有异象；又必遭遇幽暗，不能占卜。日头必向申言者沉落，白昼必在他们身上变为黑暗。
Therefore there will be night to you, without vision, And darkness to you, without divination. And the sun will go down on the prophets, And the day will be black
over them.
3:7 先见必抱愧，占卜的必蒙羞，都必捂 嘴唇，因为没有从神来的答覆。
And the seers will be put to shame, And the diviners will be ashamed; And they will all cover their mouths, For there will be no answer from God.
3:8 至于我，我藉耶和华的灵，满有力量、公平和能力，可以向雅各说明他的过犯，向以色列指出他的罪。
But as for me, I am full Of power, with the Spirit of Jehovah, and of justice and might, To declare to Jacob his transgression And to Israel his sin.
3:9 雅各家的首领，以色列家的官长阿，当听这话：你们厌恶公平，屈枉一切正直；
Hear now this, you heads of the house of Jacob And you rulers of the house of Israel: You who abhor justice And pervert all uprightness,
3:10 藉流人血建立锡安，以罪孽建造耶路撒冷。
Who build Zion by bloodshed And Jerusalem by iniquity.
3:11 城中的首领为贿赂行审判，祭司为雇价施教训，申言者为银钱行占卜；他们却信靠耶和华，说，耶和华不是在我们中间么？灾祸必不临到我们。
Her leaders judge for a bribe, And her priests teach for hire, And her prophets divine for money; But they lean on Jehovah, saying, Is not Jehovah in our midst? Evil
will not come upon us.
3:12 所以因你们的缘故，锡安必被耕种像田地，耶路撒冷必成为乱堆，这殿的山必成为丛林的高冈。
Therefore on account of you Zion will be plowed as a field, And Jerusalem will become a heap of ruins, And the mountain of the house will become the high
places of a forest.
弥迦书 Micah 第 4 章
4:1 末后的日子，耶和华殿的山必坚立于诸山之顶，高举过于众冈陵；万民都要涌向这山。
But in the last days The mountain of the house of Jehovah Will be established on the top of the mountains; And it will be lifted up among the hills; And the
peoples will stream to it.
4:2 必有许多国的民前来，说，来罢，我们登耶和华的山，上雅各神的殿；祂必将祂的道路教导我们，使我们行祂的路径；因为训诲必出于锡安，耶和华
的言语必出于耶路撒冷。
And many nations will come and say, Come and let us go up to the mountain of Jehovah And to the house of the God of Jacob; That He may instruct us in His
ways, And that we may walk in His paths; For from Zion will go forth instruction, And the word of Jehovah from Jerusalem.
4:3 祂必在多族的民中施行审判，为远方许多的国断定是非。他们要将刀打成犁头，把枪打成镰刀；这国不举刀攻击那国，他们也不再学习战事。
And He will judge between many peoples And will decide matters for numerous nations from afar. And they will beat their swords into plowshares And their
spears into pruning knives; Nation will not lift up sword against nation, Nor will they learn war anymore.
4:4 人人都要坐在自己葡萄树下和无花果树下，无人惊扰；因为万军之耶和华已经亲口说了。
And they will each sit underneath his vine And underneath his fig tree, And no one will disturb them; For the mouth of Jehovah of hosts has spoken.
4:5 万民各奉自己神的名而行；我们却奉耶和华我们神的名而行，直到永永远远。
For all the peoples will walk, Each in the name of his god; But we will walk In the name of Jehovah our God Forever and ever.
4:6 耶和华说，到那日我必聚集瘸腿的，招聚被赶出的，和我所苦待的；
In that day, Declares Jehovah, I will gather her that limps, And her that has been driven out I will collect, As well as her that I have afflicted;
4:7 我必使瘸腿的成为余剩之民，使那被赶到远方的成为强盛之国；耶和华要在锡安山作王治理他们，从今直到永远。
874
And I will make her that limps a remnant, And her that has been cast far away a mighty nation; And Jehovah will reign over them in Mount Zion From then on,
and even forever.
4:8 你这羊群的高台，锡安女子的山哪，起初的权柄必临到你，国权必归与耶路撒冷的女子。
And you, O tower of the flock, O hill of the daughter of Zion, To you will it come, Indeed the first dominion will come, The kingdom to the daughter of Jerusalem.
4:9 现在你为何大声哭号？难道你中间没有君王么？或是你的谋士灭亡，以致疼痛抓住你，仿佛生产的妇人么？
Why do you now cry out aloud? Is there no king among you? Has your counselor perished, That pain has seized you like a woman delivering a child?
4:10 锡安的女子阿，你要疼痛劬劳，仿佛生产的妇人；因为你必从城里出来，住在田野，且要到巴比伦去。在那里你要蒙解救，在那里耶和华必救赎你脱
离仇敌的手。
Suffer the pain and thrust forth, O daughter of Zion, like a woman delivering a child. For now you will go forth from the city And dwell in the field; And you will go
into Babylon. And there you will be delivered; There Jehovah will redeem you From the hand of your enemies.
4:11 现在有许多国的民聚集攻击你，说，愿锡安被玷污，愿我们亲眼见她遭报。
And now many nations Are gathered against you, They who say, Let her be profaned, And let our eyes gaze on Zion.
4:12 他们却不知道耶和华的意念，也不明白祂的筹画；祂聚集他们，好像把禾捆聚到禾场一样。
But they do not know The thoughts of Jehovah, And they do not understand His counsel; For He has gathered them like sheaves for the threshing floor.
4:13 锡安的女子阿，起来踹谷罢；我必使你的角成为铁，使你的蹄成为铜。你必将多族打得粉碎；我必将他们的财利献与耶和华，将他们的赀财献与全地
的主。
Arise and thresh, O daughter of Zion; For I will make your horn iron, And I will make your hooves bronze; And you will crush many peoples to powder. And I will
devote their profit to Jehovah, And their substance to the Lord of the whole earth.
弥迦书 Micah 第 5 章
5:1 成群的女子阿，现在你要聚集成队；仇敌围攻我们，他们用杖击打以色列审判者的脸。
Now gather yourself in troops, O daughter of troops; He has laid a siege against us. With a rod they strike on the cheek The Judge of Israel.
5:2 (伯利恒以法他阿，你在犹大诸城中为小，将来必有一位从你那里为我而出，在以色列中作掌权者；祂是从亘古，从太初而出。)
(But you, O Bethlehem Ephrathah, So little to be among the thousands of Judah, From you there will come forth to Me He who is to be Ruler in Israel; And His
goings forth are from ancient times, From the days of eternity.)
5:3 因此，耶和华必将以色列人交付敌人，直等那临产的妇人生下孩子来；那时掌权者其余的弟兄必归到以色列人那里。
Therefore He will give them up until the time When she who is in labor delivers the child; Then the remainder of His brothers will return, Along with the children of
Israel.
5:4 祂必站起来，靠耶和华的力量，并耶和华祂神之名的威严，牧养祂的羊群；他们要安然居住，因为如今祂必尊大，直到地极。
And He will stand and feed His flock in the strength of Jehovah, In the majesty of the name of Jehovah His God; And they will abide, for now He will be great Unto
the ends of the earth.
5:5 这位必作我们的平安。当亚述人进入我们的地，践踏我们宫殿的时候，我们就立起七个牧者、八个首领攻击他。
And this One will be the peace. When Assyria comes into our land And when he treads in our palaces, We will raise up against him seven shepherds And eight
princes of men.
5:6 他们必用刀剑毁坏亚述地，和宁录地的关口。亚述人进入我们的地，践踏我们地界的时候，祂必拯救我们。
And they will waste the land of Assyria with the sword And the land of Nimrod at its entrances. And He will save us from Assyria, When he comes into our land
And when he treads in our border.
5:7 雅各余剩的人必在许多的民中，如从耶和华那里降下的露水，又如甘霖降在草上，不仰仗人，也不等候世人。
And the remnant of Jacob will be In the midst of many peoples Like dew from Jehovah, Like abundant showers upon the herbage, Which do not tarry for man
And do not wait for the sons of men.
5:8 雅各余剩的人必在列国许多的民中，如狮子在树林间的百兽中，又如少壮狮子在羊群中；他若经过，就必践踏撕裂，无人搭救。
And the remnant of Jacob will be among the nations, In the midst of many peoples, Like a lion among the beasts of the forest, Like a young lion among the flocks
of sheep, Who, if he should pass through, tramples under And tears up, and there is none to deliver from him.
5:9 你的手必举起，胜过敌人，你的仇敌都必被剪除。
Your hand will be raised up against your adversaries, And all your enemies will be cut off.
5:10 耶和华说，到那日，我必从你中间剪除你的马匹，毁坏你的车辆；
In that day, Declares Jehovah, I will cut off your horses from the midst of you And will destroy your chariots.
5:11 也必从你的地除灭城邑，拆毁一切的保障；
And I will cut off the cities of your land And will throw down all your strongholds.
5:12 又必从你手中除掉邪术，你那里也不再有占卜的。
And I will cut off the sorceries from your hand, And you will not have soothsayers.
5:13 我必从你中间除灭你的偶像和柱像，你就不再跪拜自己手所造的。
And I will cut off your idols And your pillars from your midst; And you will no longer worship The work of your hands.
5:14 我必从你中间拔出你的木像，又毁灭你的城邑。
And I will pluck up your Asherahs from your midst, And I will destroy your cities.
5:15 我也必在怒气和忿怒中，向那不听从的列国施行报复。
And I will execute vengeance in anger and wrath Upon the nations that have not listened.
弥迦书 Micah 第 6 章
6:1 你们当听耶和华所说的话：要起来在山岭前争辩，使冈陵听你的声音。
Hear now what Jehovah says: Arise, contend before the mountains, And let the hills hear your voice.
6:2 诸山哪，要听耶和华争辩的话；大地永久的根基阿，你们也要听。因为耶和华与祂的百姓争辩，与以色列争论。
875
Hear, O mountains, Jehovah's contention, And you enduring foundations of the earth; For Jehovah has a contention with His people, And with Israel He will
dispute.
6:3 我的百姓阿，我向你作了什么呢？我在什么事上使你厌烦？你可以对我证明。
O My people, what have I done to You? And with what have I wearied you? Testify against Me.
6:4 我曾将你从埃及地领上来，从为奴之家救赎你；我也差遣摩西、亚伦和米利暗在你前面行。
For I brought you up out of the land of Egypt, And from the slave house I redeemed you; And I sent before you Moses, Aaron, and Miriam.
6:5 我的百姓阿，你们当追念摩押王巴勒所设的谋，和比珥的儿子巴兰回答他的话，追念从什亭到吉甲所发生的事，好使你们知道耶和华公义的作为。
O My people, remember now what Balak the king of Moab counseled, And what Balaam the son of Beor answered him, From Shittim to Gilgal, That you may
know the righteous acts of Jehovah.
6:6 我朝见耶和华，在至高神面前跪拜，该带来什么呢？我该带一岁的牛犊为燔祭朝见祂么？
With what shall I come before Jehovah And bow myself before the high God? Shall I come before Him with burnt offerings, With one-year-old calves?
6:7 耶和华会喜悦千千的公羊，或是万万的油河么？我该为自己的过犯献我的长子，为我魂中的罪献我身所生的么？
Will Jehovah be pleased with thousands of rams, With tens of thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, The fruit of my body for the
sin of my soul?
6:8 人哪，耶和华已指示你何为善；祂向你所要的是什么呢？无非是要你施行公理，喜爱怜悯，谦卑的与你的神同行。
He has declared to you, O man, what is good; And what does Jehovah require of you, But that you would execute justice and love mercy And walk humbly with
your God?
6:9 耶和华向这城发声呼叫，智慧人必仰望祂的名。你们当留意刑杖和那派定刑杖的。
The voice of Jehovah cries out to the city, And wisdom looks upon Your name. Hear the rod and Him who appointed it.
6:10 恶人家中岂非仍有不义之财，和可憎的小量器么？
Are there yet treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked, And a scant measure that is abominable?
6:11 我若用不公道的天平和囊中诡诈的法码，岂可算为清洁呢？
Shall I be pure with wicked balances And with a bag of deceitful weights?
6:12 城里的财主充满强暴，其中的居民也说谎言，他们口中的舌头是诡诈的。
For the rich men of the city are full of violence, And those who inhabit it speak falsehood, And their tongue is deceitful in their mouth.
6:13 因此，我也击打你，使你生病；我使你因你的罪荒凉。
Thus I also have made you sick by striking you; I have made you desolate because of your sins.
6:14 你要吃，却不得吃饱；你的虚弱必显在你中间；你必挪去，却不得救护；你所救护的，我必交给刀剑。
You will eat, but you will not be satisfied; And your emptiness will remain in the midst of you; And you will take away, But you will not rescue, And what you
rescue I will give up to the sword.
6:15 你必撒种，却不得收割；踹橄榄，却不得油抹身；酿新酒，却不得酒喝。
You will sow, But you will not reap; You will tread olives, But you will not anoint yourself with oil, And the new wine, But you will not drink wine.
6:16 因为你守暗利的规例，作亚哈家一切所作的，按他们的计谋而行，叫我使你荒凉，使城中的居民被人嗤笑；你们也必担当我民的羞辱。
For the statutes of Omri are kept, And all the works of the house of Ahab; And you walk in their counsels, That I may make you a desolation, And the inhabitants
of the city a hissing; And you will bear the reproach of My people.
弥迦书 Micah 第 7 章
7:1 我有祸了！因为我好像夏天的果子已被收尽，又像摘了葡萄所剩下的；没有一挂可吃，也没有我魂所羡慕初熟的无花果。
Woe is me! For I am like a gathering of summer fruit And like a gleaning of the vintage; There is no cluster to eat, Nor first-ripe fig, which my soul desires.
7:2 地上虔诚人灭尽，人间也没有正直人；各人埋伏要杀人流血，都用网罗猎取弟兄。
The godly man has perished from the land, And there is none upright among men; They all lie in wait for bloodshed; They each hunt their brother with a net.
7:3 他们双手善于作恶：首领要求贿赂，审判官也随同附和，为得酬报；位分大的吐出魂中的恶欲；都彼此结联行恶。
Both hands are set upon evil, to do it well: The prince asks for it, And the judge agrees, for a reward, And the great man, he utters the evil desire of his soul, And
they weave it together.
7:4 他们当中最好的，不过是蒺藜；最正直的，还不如荆棘篱笆。你的守望者所说降罚的日子已经来到；他们必扰乱不安。
The best one among them is like a briar; The most upright is worse than a thorn hedge. The day of your watchmen, your visitation, has come; Now will be their
confounding.
7:5 不要信靠邻舍；不要信任密友；要守住你的口，不要向躺在你怀中的妻子题说。
Do not trust in a neighbor; Do not put your confidence in a friend; Keep the doors of your mouth From her who lies in your bosom.
7:6 因为儿子藐视父亲，女儿起来反她的母亲，儿媳反她的婆婆；人的仇敌就是自己家里的人。
For the son treats the father like a fool; The daughter rises up against her mother, The daughter-in-law, against her mother-in-law; A man's enemies are the
men of his own house.
7:7 至于我，我要仰望耶和华，等候那救我的神；我的神必垂听我。
But as for me, I will look for Jehovah; I will wait for the God of my salvation; My God will hear me.
7:8 我的仇敌阿，不要向我夸耀；我虽跌倒，却要起来；我虽坐在黑暗里，耶和华却是我的光。
Do not rejoice against me, O my enemy; When I fall, I will rise up; When I sit in the darkness, Jehovah will be a light to me.
7:9 我要忍受耶和华的恼怒，因我得罪了祂；直等祂为我辨屈，为我施行公理；祂必领我出到光中，我必得见祂的公义。
I will bear the indignation of Jehovah-For I have sinned against Him-Until He plead my cause And execute justice for me; He will bring me forth into the light; I
will see His righteousness.
7:10 那时我的仇敌，就是曾对我说，耶和华你神在那里的，她一看见这事，就被羞愧遮盖。我必亲眼见她遭报；那时，她必被践踏，如同街上的泥土。
Then my enemy will see And shame will cover Her who said to me, Where is Jehovah your God? My eyes will see her: At that time she will become trampled Like
mud in the streets.
7:11 必有修造你墙垣的日子！到那日，你的命令必传到远方；
A day for building your walls! In that day the decree will be far away;
876
7:12 当那日，人必从亚述，从埃及的城邑，从埃及到大河，从这海到那海，从这山到那山，都来到你这里。
In that day they will come even unto you From Assyria and from the cities of Egypt, And from Egypt even to the River, And from sea to sea and mountain to
mountain.
7:13 然而，这地因居民的缘故，因他们行事的结果，必然荒凉。
But the land will become desolate Because of the inhabitants in it, due to the fruit of their doings.
7:14 求你用你的杖牧放你那独居在迦密山树林的民，就是你产业的羊 ；求你让他们在巴 和基列得着牧养，像古时一样。
Shepherd Your people with Your rod, The flock of Your inheritance, Who dwell alone in the forest In the midst of Carmel; Let them feed in Bashan and Gilead As in
the days of old.
7:15 耶和华说，我要把奇事显给你看，好像在你出埃及地的日子一样。
As in the days of your going forth out from the land of Egypt, I will show you wonders.
7:16 列国看见，就必为自己一切的势力惭愧；他们必用手捂口，耳朵变聋。
The nations will see and be ashamed Of all their might; They will put the hand over the mouth; Their ears will be deaf.
7:17 他们必舔土如蛇，又如地上爬行的物，战战兢兢的出他们的营寨；他们必惊慌的归向耶和华我们的神，也必因你而惧怕。
They will lick the dust like a serpent; Like crawling things of the earth, They will come quivering from their enclosed places; To Jehovah our God They will turn in
fear and be afraid because of You.
7:18 有何神像你，赦免罪孽，越过你产业之余民的过犯呢？祂不永远怀怒，因祂乐意施慈爱。
Who is a God like You, Pardoning iniquity And passing over the transgression Of the remnant of His inheritance? He does not retain His anger forever, For He
delights in lovingkindness.
7:19 祂必再怜恤我们，将我们的罪孽踏在脚下。你必将他们的一切罪投于深海。
He will again have compassion on us; He will tread our iniquities underfoot. And You will cast into the depths of the sea All their sins.
7:20 你必按古时对我们列祖所起的誓，向雅各显真实，向亚伯拉罕施慈爱。
You will perform truth to Jacob, And lovingkindness to Abraham, Which You have sworn to our fathers From the days of old.
877
34. 那鸿书 Nahum
那鸿书 Nahum 第 1 章
1:1 关于尼尼微的默示，就是伊勒歌斯人那鸿的异象书。
The burden concerning Nineveh. The book of the vision of Nahum the Elkoshite.
1:2 耶和华是忌邪施报的神；耶和华施报，且满有忿怒；耶和华向祂的敌人施报，向祂的仇敌怀怒。
Jehovah is a jealous God and One who avenges; Jehovah avenges and is full of wrath; Jehovah takes vengeance on His adversaries, And reserves wrath for His
enemies.
1:3 耶和华不轻易发怒，大有能力，绝不以有罪的为无罪；耶和华的道路在旋风和暴风中，云彩是祂脚下的尘土。
Jehovah is long-suffering and great in power And will by no means clear the guilty. Jehovah-His way is in the whirlwind and in the storm, And the clouds are the
dust of His feet.
1:4 祂斥责海，使海干了，使一切江河干涸。巴珊和迦密的树林衰残，利巴嫩的花草也衰残了。
He rebukes the sea and makes it dry, And He dries up all the rivers. Bashan and Carmel languish, And the sprout of Lebanon languishes.
1:5 大山因祂震动，小山也都镕化；大地在祂面前突起，世界和住在其间的也都如此。
The mountains quake because of Him, And the hills melt, And the earth is heaved up at His presence, Indeed the world, and all that inhabit it.
1:6 在祂的恼怒前，谁能站得住呢？祂发烈怒，谁能当得起呢？祂的忿怒如火倾倒，磐石因祂崩裂。
Who can stand before His indignation, And who can maintain himself in the fierceness of His anger? His wrath is poured out like fire, And the rocks are broken
down by Him.
1:7 耶和华本为善，在急难的日子作人的保障；祂认得那些投奔于祂的人。
Jehovah is good, A stronghold in a day of distress; And He knows those who take refuge in Him.
1:8 但祂必以泛滥的洪水将尼尼微灭绝净尽，又将祂的仇敌赶入黑暗。
But with an overflowing flood He will make a full end of her place, And He will pursue His enemies into darkness.
1:9 尼尼微人哪，你们设何谋攻击耶和华呢？祂必将你们灭绝净尽；灾难必不再次兴起。
What do you devise against Jehovah? He will make a full end; Distress will not arise a second time.
1:10 他们虽像缠结的荆棘，像喝醉了的人，却必如枯干的碎桔全然烧灭。
For though they are entangled like thorns And like those drunken with their drink, They will be consumed as fully as dry stubble.
1:11 有一人从你那里出来，图谋邪恶，设恶计攻击耶和华。
One went forth from you Who devises evil against Jehovah, Who counsels wickedness.
1:12 耶和华如此说，他们虽然人数充足繁多，也必被剪除消逝。犹大阿，我虽然使你受苦，却不再使你受苦。
Thus says Jehovah, Though they are complete in number and even numerous, Even so they will be cut down; and they will pass away. And though I have afflicted
you, I will afflict you no more.
1:13 现在我必从你颈项上折断他的轭，扭开你的绳索。
And now I will break his yoke from off you And will snap your bonds asunder.
1:14 尼尼微阿，耶和华已经出令，指着你说，你的名必不再散播；我必从你神的庙中，除灭雕制的偶像，和铸造的偶像；我必因你的卑劣，为你预备坟墓。
And Jehovah has commanded concerning you: No more of your name will be sown; Out of the house of your gods I will cut off The graven idol and the molten
idol; I will make your grave, for you are worthless.
1:15 看哪，报好信传平安之人的脚登山，说，犹大阿，当守你的节期，还你所许的愿；因为那恶人必不再从你中间经过；他已全然被剪除了。
See, upon the mountains The feet of him who bears the glad news, Who announces peace! Keep your feasts, O Judah; Complete your vows; For the wicked one
will never again Pass through you; He will be completely cut off.
那鸿书 Nahum 第 2 章
2:1 尼尼微阿，那打散邦国的上到你面前；你要看守保障，谨防道路，使腰强壮，大大勉力。
He who scatters has come up before you: Keep the fortress, Watch the way, Strengthen the loins, Fortify the power greatly.
2:2 因为耶和华复兴雅各所夸耀的，好像以色列所夸耀的一样；因为劫掠者已经把他们劫掠一空，将他们的葡萄枝毁坏了。
For Jehovah restores The excellency of Jacob As the excellency of Israel; For the emptiers have emptied them out And destroyed their vine branches.
2:3 祂勇士的盾牌是红的，精兵都穿朱红衣服；在祂预备争战的日子，战车上的钢铁闪烁如火，枪矛也抡起来了；
The shield of His mighty men is red; The valiant men are clad in scarlet; The chariots flash with the shining of steel In the day of His preparation, And the spears
are brandished.
2:4 战车在街上急行，在宽阔处奔来奔去，形状如火把，飞跑如闪电。
In the streets the chariots rush madly; They dash to and fro in the open squares; Their appearance is like that of torches; They dart like lightning.
2:5 亚述王招聚他的贵胄：他们颠踬而行，奔上城墙，但攻城者的防障已经备妥。
The Assyrian king remembers his glorious ones: They stumble in their march; They hasten to the wall of the city, But the besiegers' shelter is prepared.
2:6 河闸开放，宫殿摧毁。
The gates of the rivers are opened, And the palace is dissolved.
2:7 王后赤身，被人掳去；宫女捶胸，哀鸣如鸽；此乃命定之事。
And it is determined: She is uncovered; she is carried away; And her maidens moan, As with the sound of doves, Beating their breasts.
2:8 尼尼微自古以来充满人民，如同聚水的池子；现在他们却都逃跑；虽有人呼喊说，站住！站住！却无人回顾。
Though Nineveh has been like a pool of water all her days, Now they are fleeing. Stand! Stand! But no one turns back.
2:9 你们抢掠银子，抢掠金子罢！因为所储备的无穷，一切的宝器何等荣耀！
Plunder the silver! Plunder the gold! And there is no end to what has been prepared. Oh, the glory of all the desirable vessels!
2:10 现在却空虚、荒凉、旷废！人心融化，双膝相碰，腰都疼痛，脸都变暗。
Emptiness and void and waste! And the heart melts, and the knees knock, And anguish is in all the loins, And the faces of all of them become pale.
2:11 狮子的洞和少壮狮子喂养之处在那里呢？公狮、母狮、小狮游行，无人惊吓之处在那里呢？
878
Where is the den of lions And the feeding place of young lions, Where the lion and the lioness walked, And the lion's whelp; and no one frightened them?
2:12 公狮为小狮撕碎足够的食物，为母狮掐死活物，把猎物充满它的洞，把撕碎的充满它的穴。
The lion tore in pieces, enough for his whelps, And strangled for his lioness And filled his caves with torn prey And his dens with torn animals.
2:13 万军之耶和华说，看哪，我与你为敌，必将你的战车焚烧成烟，刀剑也必吞灭你的少壮狮子；我必从地上除灭你的猎物；你使者的声音，必不再听见。
Indeed I am against you, Declares Jehovah of hosts; And I will burn your chariots in smoke, And the sword will devour your young lions; And I will cut off your prey
from the earth; And the voice of your messengers will no longer be heard.
那鸿书 Nahum 第 3 章
3:1 祸哉，这流人血的城！充满谎诈和强暴，抢夺的事总不止息。
Woe to the bloody city! She is all full of lies and pillage; The prey does not depart.
3:2 鞭声响亮，车轮轰轰；马匹快跑，车辆奔腾，
The sound of the whip, And the sound of the rattling wheel; And the horse galloping, And the chariot jolting by,
3:3 骑兵跃马，刀剑发光，枪矛闪烁；被杀的甚多，尸首成堆，尸骸无数，人碰着而跌倒。
The horseman making the horse to rear up, And the sword flashing, And the spear glittering; And a multitude of the slain, And a mass of corpses, And no end to
the bodies-They stumble among their bodies.
3:4 都因那美貌的妓女，行邪术的主母，多有淫行，藉淫行出卖列国，用邪术出卖多族。
This because of the multitude of harlotries Of the well-favored harlot, The mistress of sorceries, Who sells nations by her harlotries And families by her sorceries.
3:5 万军之耶和华说，我与你为敌；我必揭起你的衣襟，蒙在你脸上，使列邦看见你的赤体，使列国看见你的羞耻。
Indeed I am against you, declares Jehovah of hosts; And I will throw open your skirts upon your face, And I will show the nations your nakedness, And the
kingdoms your shame.
3:6 我必将可憎污秽之物抛在你身上，使你显为愚昧，为众目所观。
And I will cast abominable filth upon you And make you appear foolish and make you like a spectacle.
3:7 凡看见你的，都必逃跑离开你，说，尼尼微成了荒场。有谁为她悲伤呢？我何处寻得安慰你的人呢？
And everyone who sees you Will flee from you and say, Nineveh is laid waste. Who will lament for her? Where will I seek Some to comfort you?
3:8 你岂比挪亚们强么？挪亚们坐落在众河渠之间，周围有水；海作她的屏障，水作她的城墙。
Are you better than No-amon, Who sat beside the canals With waters all around her, Whose bulwark was the sea And water was her wall?
3:9 古实和埃及是她的力量，无穷无尽；弗人和路比族是她的帮手。
Cush was her strength, As well as Egypt, and it was without end; Put and the Libyans Were among her helpers.
3:10 但她还是被迁徙，被掳去；她的婴孩在各街头也被摔死；人为她的尊贵人拈阄；她所有的尊大者都被链子锁着。
She too was carried away; She went into captivity; Her little ones too were dashed to pieces At the head of every street, And for her nobles They cast lots, And all
her great men Were bound in chains.
3:11 你也必喝醉，必被隐藏；并因仇敌的缘故寻求保障。
You too will be drunken; You will be hidden. You too will seek A stronghold from the enemy.
3:12 你一切保障必像无花果树上初熟的无花果；若一摇撼，就落在想吃之人的口中。
All your fortresses will be like fig trees With first ripe figs: If they are shaken, they will fall Into the mouth of the eater.
3:13 看哪，在你中间的人民，如同妇女；你国土的关口，向仇敌敞开；你的门闩，被火焚烧。
Indeed your people are like women In the midst of you; Unto your enemies the gates of your land Are wide open; Fire devours your bars.
3:14 你要为自己打水，预备受困！巩固你的保障！踹土和泥！预备砖窑！
Draw for yourself water for the siege! Strengthen your fortresses! Go into the clay, And tread in the mortar! Make the brick kiln ready!
3:15 在那里火必烧灭你；刀必除灭你，吞吃你如同蝗虫。任你加增人数如蝗虫，加增人数多如蝗虫罢。
There will the fire devour you; The sword will cut you off; It will devour you like the locust. Enlarge yourself like the locust; Enlarge yourself like the locust swarm.
3:16 你增添商贾，多过天上的星；蝗虫吃尽就飞去。
You have multiplied your merchants Like the stars of heaven; The locust strips everything and flies away.
3:17 你的首领多如蝗虫，你的军长仿佛成群的蝗虫，天凉的时候，齐落在篱笆上，日头一出便都飞去，不知道落在何处。
Your princes are like the locust swarm, And your officials are like hordes of locusts, Which camp in the hedges On a cold day, But when the sun arises, they flee
away, And the place where they are is unknown.
3:18 亚述王阿，你的牧人打盹，你的贵胄安歇；你的人民散在山间，无人招聚。
Your shepherds slumber, O king of Assyria; Your nobles sleep. Your people are scattered upon the mountains, And there is no one to gather them.
3:19 你的损伤无法医治，你的创伤极其严重。凡听见你消息的，必都向你拍掌；因为你所行的恶，谁没有时常遭遇呢？
There is no alleviating of your injury; Your wound is grievous. All who hear the report of you Clap their hands over you; For upon whom has your wickedness Not
passed continually?
879
35. 哈巴谷书 Habakkuk
哈巴谷书 Habakkuk 第 1 章
1:1 申言者哈巴谷所见的默示。
The burden which Habakkuk the prophet saw.
1:2 耶和华阿，我呼求你，你不垂听，要到几时呢？我向你呼叫说，残暴！你并不拯救。
How long, O Jehovah, shall I cry And You do not hear? I cry out to You, Violence! And You do not save.
1:3 你为何使我看见罪孽，为何使我见到奸恶呢？毁灭和强暴在我面前；又有争端，且起了争斗的事。
Why do You cause me to see iniquity And look upon wrong? Indeed destruction and violence are before me; And there is strife, and contention arises.
1:4 因此律法失效，公理也不显明；恶人围困义人，所以公理显然颠倒。
Therefore the law is ineffective, And justice never goes forth; For the wicked encompasses the righteous, Therefore justice goes forth perverted.
1:5 你们向列国中观看注视，就必大大惊奇；因为在你们的日子，我行一件事，即使有人详细的告诉你们，你们也总不相信。
Look among the nations, and see, And be amazed, utterly amazed. For I am doing a work in your days Which you would not believe if it were told you.
1:6 因为我必兴起迦勒底人，就是那苦毒急躁之民；他们遍行广阔之地，占据不属自己的住处。
For I am about to raise up the Chaldeans, That bitter and hasty nation That marches through the breadth of the earth To possess habitations that are not theirs.
1:7 他们威武可畏；判断和权柄，都任由他们发出。
They are terrible and dreadful; Their judgment and their authority issue from themselves.
1:8 他们的马比豹更快，比晚上的豺狼更猛；马兵奔驰，都从远方而来；他们飞跑，如鹰急速抓食。
And their horses are swifter than leopards And more agile than the wolves of evening. And their horsemen prance about; Indeed their horsemen come from afar;
They fly like an eagle that hastens to devour.
1:9 他们都为行强暴而来；定住脸面向前，将掳掠的人聚集，多如尘沙。
All of them come to do violence; The set of their faces is forward, And they gather captives like sand.
1:10 他们嘲弄君王，笑话掌权者；他们嗤笑一切保障，堆筑土垒攻取。
Indeed they scoff at kings, And potentates are a derision to them; They deride every fortress, For they heap up dirt and take it.
1:11 然后他们像风横扫而过，因此有了罪过；他们以自己的这力量为他们的神。
Then they will sweep through like the wind and pass over And thus become guilty; this-their strength-is their god.
1:12 耶和华我的神，我的圣者阿，你不是从亘古就有么？我们必不至死。耶和华阿，你派定他们行审判；磐石阿，你设立他们施管教。
Are You not from everlasting, O Jehovah, My God, my Holy One? We will not die. O Jehovah, You have appointed them for judgment; And You, O Rock, have
established them for correction.
1:13 你眼目清洁不看邪僻，不看奸恶；行诡诈的，你为何看着不理呢？恶人吞灭比自己公义的，你为何静默不语呢？
You who are of purer eyes than to behold evil And who cannot look upon wrong, Why do You look upon them who deal treacherously And keep silent when the
wicked man swallows up him who is more righteous than he?
1:14 你使人如海中的鱼，如无人管辖的爬物。
And You make man like the fish of the sea, Like the creeping things, who have no one to rule for them.
1:15 他们用钩将众人钩上，用网拖走，用拉网聚集；因此，他们喜乐欢腾，
They take all of them up with a hook; They drag them off in their net And gather them into their seine; So they rejoice and exult.
1:16 就向自己的网献祭，向自己的拉网烧香，因他们由此得肥美的分，和充裕的食物。
Therefore they offer sacrifices to their net And burn incense to their seine, For by them their portion is fat And their food is plenteous.
1:17 难道他们就这样倒空自己的网，不断杀戮列国的人，毫不顾惜么？
Will they then empty their net And continually slay the nations without sparing?
哈巴谷书 Habakkuk 第 2 章
2:1 我要站在我的守望所，立在堡垒上观望，看耶和华要对我说什么，我要怎样为我的诉冤有所回应。
I will stand at my watch And station myself on the fortress, And I will watch to see what He will speak to me And what I will reply concerning my complaint.
2:2 耶和华回答说，将这异象明明的写在版上，使读的人容易读。
Then Jehovah answered and said, Write the vision, and render it plainly upon tablets, That even he who runs by may read it.
2:3 因为这异象有一定的时期，快要达到终局，并非虚谎；虽然迟延，还要等候；因为必然临到，不再耽延。
For the vision is yet for the appointed time, And it hastens toward the end and will not lie. Though it tarries, wait for it; For it will surely come; it will not delay.
2:4 看哪，自高自大的人，心不正直；只是义人必本于信得生。
See, he who is puffed up, his soul is not upright within him, But the righteous one will live by his faith.
2:5 然而，那因酒诡诈，狂傲之人，不住在家中，扩充欲望好像阴间，又像死亡不能知足，却聚集万国，堆积万民，都归自己。
Furthermore his wine is treacherous: A boasting man, he does not abide at home, He who enlarges his appetite like Sheol, And is like death and cannot be
satisfied, But gathers to himself all the nations And collects for himself all the peoples.
2:6 这些国的民岂不都要题起比喻，就是讥诮歌和谜语，指着他说，祸哉，那增添不属自己之财物，满载别人抵押品的；他这样作，要到几时呢？
Will not all of these take up a parable against him, Indeed a mocking song and a riddle against him, and say, Woe to him who increases what is not his (For how
long?) And who loads himself with the burden of pledges?
2:7 咬伤你的岂不忽然起来，搅扰你的岂不醒起，你就成了他们的掳物么？
Will not those who bite you rise up suddenly, And those who shake you awake, And you will become booty to them?
2:8 因你抢夺许多的国，杀人流血，向地上城邑，并其中一切居民施行强暴，所以各族余剩的人都必抢夺你。
Because you have plundered many nations; All the remnant of the peoples will plunder you, Because of the bloodshed of men and the violence done to the land,
To the city, and to all the inhabitants in it.
2:9 为自己的家强夺不义之财，在高处搭窝，为要脱离灾祸的有祸了！
Woe to him who by violence takes evil gain for his house, So as to place his nest on high That he may be delivered from the hand of evil!
880
2:10 你剪除多族的人，正是图谋使自己的家蒙羞，犯罪自害己命。
You have devised shame against your own house By cutting off many peoples, And have sinned against your own soul.
2:11 墙里的石头必呼叫，木料中的椽子必应声。
For the stone will cry out from the wall, And the rafter will answer from the timber.
2:12 藉流人血建城，以罪孽立邑的有祸了！
Woe to him who builds a city by bloodshed And establishes a town by iniquity!
2:13 众民所劳碌得来的被火焚烧，列国由劳乏而得的归于虚空，不都是出于万军之耶和华么？
Indeed is it not of Jehovah of hosts That the peoples toil for the fire And the nations weary themselves for vanity?
2:14 对耶和华之荣耀的认识，要充满遍地，好像水充满洋海一般。
For the earth will be filled With the knowledge of the glory of Jehovah As water covers the sea.
2:15 给邻舍酒喝，又加上他的毒物，使邻舍喝醉，好看见他赤身的，有祸了！
Woe to him who makes his neighbor drink, Adding in his poison, And also making him drunk In order to look at their nakedness!
2:16 你满受羞辱，不得荣耀。你也喝罢，显出是未受割礼的！耶和华右手的杯必传到你那里，你的荣耀就变为极大的羞辱。
You are sated with shame, not glory. You also, drink and be shown to be uncircumcised! The cup of Jehovah's right hand will come around to you, And disgrace
will be upon your glory.
2:17 你向利巴嫩所行的强暴，与残害惊吓野兽的事，必遮盖你，因你杀人流血，向地上城邑，并其中一切居民施行强暴。
For the violence done to Lebanon will cover you, As well as the destruction of the beasts which frightened them, Because of the bloodshed of men and the
violence done to the land, To the city, and to all the inhabitants in it.
2:18 雕制的偶像，人将他雕制出来，有什么益处呢？铸造的偶像，就是虚谎的师傅，制造者倚靠所造的，他制造哑吧偶像，有什么益处呢？
What profit is the graven idol that its maker should engrave it, Or the molten idol, even the teacher of lies, That he who forms its form depends on it To make
dumb idols?
2:19 对木头说，醒起，对哑吧石头说，起来，那人有祸了！这东西能教训人么？看哪，是包裹金银的，其中毫无气息。
Woe to him who says to wood, Awake! And, Arise! to silent stone. Will it teach him? Behold, it is set in gold and silver, And there is no breath at all within it.
2:20 惟耶和华在祂的圣殿中：全地都当在祂面前静默无声！
But Jehovah is in His holy temple: Be silent before Him, all the earth!
哈巴谷书 Habakkuk 第 3 章
3:1 申言者哈巴谷的祷告，调用流离歌。
A prayer of Habakkuk the prophet in shigionoth.
3:2 耶和华阿，我听见你的名声，就惧怕。耶和华阿，求你在这些年间复兴你的工作，在这些年间使你的工作显明出来，在发怒的时候以怜恤为念。
O Jehovah, I have heard the report concerning You and am afraid. O Jehovah, revive Your work In the midst of the years; In the midst of the years make it known;
In wrath remember compassion.
3:3 神从提幔而来，圣者从巴兰山临到。 细拉 祂的荣美遮蔽诸天，地上充满对祂的赞美。
God comes from Teman, Even the Holy One from Mount Paran. His splendor covers the heavens, And the earth is filled with His praise.
3:4 祂的辉煌如光：从祂手里射出光线，在其中藏着祂的能力。
And His brightness is like the light: Rays come forth from His hand, And the hiding of His power is there.
3:5 在祂前面有瘟疫流行，在祂脚下有电光发出。
Before Him goes pestilence, And the fire bolt comes forth at His feet.
3:6 祂站立，量了大地；祂观看，惊散万民；永久的山岭崩裂，长存的冈陵塌陷；祂所行的与古时一样。
He stands and measures the earth; He looks and startles the nations; And the ancient mountains are shattered into dust, And the everlasting hills sink down; His
goings are as of old.
3:7 我见古珊的帐棚遭难，米甸地的幔子战兢。
I see the tents of Cushan Under affliction; The tent curtains of the land of Midian tremble.
3:8 耶和华阿，你乘在马上，坐在拯救的战车上，岂是向江河，向江河发怒，向洋海泄愤么？
Is it against the rivers, O Jehovah, Against the rivers that Your anger is kindled? Is Your overflowing wrath against the sea That You ride upon Your horses, Upon
Your chariots of salvation?
3:9 你的弓全然显露，你按你的话起誓，伸出管教的杖。 细拉 你以江河分开大地。
Your bow is bared utterly; The rods of discipline are sworn according to Your word. You cleave the earth with rivers.
3:10 山岭见你，无不战惧；大水泛滥过去，深渊发声，汹涌翻腾。
The mountains see you; they writhe; The tempest of water passes by; The deep utters its voice, It lifts its hands high.
3:11 因你的箭射出发光，你的枪闪出光耀，日月都在居高的本位停住。
The sun and the moon stand still in their high abode At the light of Your arrows going forth, At the brightness of Your glittering spear.
3:12 你在恼恨中通行大地，在怒气里踹踏列国。
In wrath You march through the earth, In anger You thresh the nations.
3:13 你出来要拯救你的百姓，拯救你的受膏者，打破恶人家长的头，露出他的脚，直到颈项。 细拉
You go forth for the salvation of Your people, For the salvation of Your anointed one, You strike the head from the house of the wicked one, Laying bare the
foundation, even to the neck.
3:14 你用敌人的戈矛，刺透他战士的头。他们来如旋风，要将我们分散；他们因暗中吞吃贫民而欢乐。
You pierce, with his own staves, The heads of his warriors. They come out like a whirlwind to scatter me; Their exultation is as if to devour the poor in secret.
3:15 你乘马践踏海，践踏汹涌的大水。
You tread the sea with Your horses, The heap of mighty waters.
3:16 我一听见，身体就战兢；因这声音，我的嘴唇发颤。我的骨中朽烂，我在所立之处战兢，因我必须安静等候急难的日子临到，进攻的人上来攻击百姓。
I heard and my body trembled; My lips quivered at the sound. Rottenness entered my bones, And I tremble in my place, Because I must wait quietly for the day of
distress, When he who attacks comes up against the people.
881
3:17 虽然无花果树不发旺，葡萄树不结果，橄榄树也不效力，田地不出粮食，圈中绝了羊，棚内也没有牛；
For the fig tree will not sprout, And there will be no yield on the vines; The labor on the olive tree will fail, And the fields will make no food; The flock will be cut off
from the fold, And there will be no herd in the stalls.
3:18 然而我要因耶和华欢欣，因救我的神喜乐。
Yet I will exult in Jehovah; I will rejoice in the God of my salvation.
3:19 主耶和华是我的力量；祂使我的脚快如母鹿的蹄，又使我稳行在高处。这歌交与歌咏长，用丝弦的乐器。
Jehovah the Lord is my strength; And He makes my feet like hinds' feet And will cause me to walk on my high places. For the choir director, with my stringed
instruments.
882
36. 西番雅书 Zephaniah
西番雅书 Zephaniah 第 1 章
1:1 当犹大王亚们的儿子约西亚在位的日子，耶和华的话临到希西家的玄孙，亚玛利雅的曾孙，基大利的孙子，古示的儿子西番雅。
The word of Jehovah that came to Zephaniah the son of Cushi, the son of Gedaliah, the son of Amariah, the son of Hezekiah, in the days of Josiah the son of
Amon, the king of Judah.
1:2 耶和华说，我必从地面上全然除灭万类。
Iwill utterly remove everything From off the face of the earth, Declares Jehovah.
1:3 我必除灭人和走兽，除灭空中的鸟、海里的鱼、以及绊脚石和恶人；我必将人从地面上剪除，这是耶和华说的。
I will remove man and beast; I will remove the birds of heaven and the fish of the sea, And the stumbling blocks with the wicked; And I will cut off man From the
face of the earth, Declares Jehovah.
1:4 我必伸手攻击犹大和耶路撒冷的一切居民；也必从这地方剪除所余剩的巴力，并偶像祭司的名和祭司，
And I will stretch out My hand against Judah And against all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, And I will cut off the remnant of Baal from this place, And the name of
the idol priests with the priests,
1:5 与那些在房顶上敬拜天上万象的，并那些敬拜耶和华，指着祂起誓，又指着玛勒堪起誓的，
And those who worship upon the housetops The host of heaven, And the worshippers who swear to Jehovah And swear by Malcam,
1:6 与那些转去不跟从耶和华的，和不寻求耶和华，也不求问祂的。
And those who have been turned back from going after Jehovah And have not sought Jehovah And have not inquired of Him.
1:7 你要在主耶和华面前静默无声，因为耶和华的日子近了；耶和华已经预备祭物，将祂所召的分别为圣。
Be silent before the Lord Jehovah, For the day of Jehovah is near; For Jehovah has prepared a sacrifice; He has consecrated those whom He has called.
1:8 在耶和华献祭的日子，我必惩罚首领和王子，并一切穿外邦衣服的。
And in the day of the sacrifice of Jehovah I will punish the princes And the sons of the king And all who wear The clothing of foreigners.
1:9 到那日，我必惩罚一切跳过门槛，将强暴和诡诈充满他们主人房屋的。
And in that day I will punish All who leap over the threshold, Who fill their master's house With violence and deceit.
1:10 耶和华说，当那日从鱼门必发出哀声，从第二城区发出哀号，从山间发出大破裂的响声。
And in that day, declares Jehovah, There will be the sound of an outcry from the Fish Gate And wailing from the second district And a great crashing from the hills.
1:11 玛革提施的居民哪，你们要哀号，因为迦南的民都灭亡了；凡满载银子的，都被剪除。
Wail, O inhabitants of Maktesh, For all the people of Canaan are destroyed, All who are laden with silver are cut off.
1:12 那时，我必用灯巡查耶路撒冷，我必惩罚那些如酒在渣滓上澄清的，他们心里说，耶和华必不降福，也不降祸。
And at that time I will search through Jerusalem with lamps, And I will punish the men Who have settled on their lees, Who say in their heart, Jehovah will not do
good, Nor will He do evil.
1:13 他们的财宝必成为掠物，他们的房屋必变为荒场。他们建造房屋，却不得住在其内；栽种葡萄园，却不得喝所出的酒。
And their wealth will become plunder, And their houses, a desolation. Indeed they will build houses but not inhabit them, And they will plant vineyards but not
drink the wine from them.
1:14 耶和华的大日临近，临近而且来得甚快。这是耶和华日子的声音！勇士在那里痛痛的哭号。
The great day of Jehovah is near; It is near and hastens greatly. The sound of the day of Jehovah! The mighty man bitterly cries there.
1:15 那日是盛怒的日子，是急难困苦的日子，是荒废凄凉的日子，是黑暗幽冥的日子，是密云乌黑的日子，
That day is a day of overflowing wrath, A day of trouble and distress, A day of waste and ruin, A day of darkness and gloom, A day of clouds and deep darkness,
1:16 是吹角呐喊的日子，要攻击坚固城，和高耸的角楼。
A day of trumpet and alarm Against the fortified cities And against the high battlements.
1:17 我必使灾难临到那些人，使他们行走如同瞎子，因为他们得罪了我耶和华；他们的血必倒出如灰尘，他们的肉必抛弃如粪土。
And I will bring distress upon the men, So that they walk about like the blind, For they have sinned against Jehovah; And their blood will be poured out like dust,
And their bowels like dung.
1:18 当耶和华盛怒的日子，他们的金银不能救他们；全地必被祂嫉愤的火烧灭，因为祂要将这地的一切居民，急速毁灭净尽。
Neither their silver nor their gold Will be able to deliver them In the day of the overflowing wrath of Jehovah; But the whole land will be devoured by the fire of His
jealousy, For He will make an end, nothing other than sudden destruction, Of all the inhabitants of the land.
西番雅书 Zephaniah 第 2 章
2:1 无耻的国民哪，你们要聚集，聚集一起，
Gather yourselves together, yes, gather, O nation that has no shame,
2:2 趁命令没有发出，(日子过去如风前的糠秕，)耶和华的烈怒尚未临到你们，祂发怒的日子未到以先，你们要聚集。
Before the decree has effect, (The day passes like chaff) Before there comes upon you The burning anger of Jehovah, Before there comes upon you The day of
Jehovah's anger.
2:3 地上一切遵行耶和华典章的卑微人哪，你们都当寻求耶和华。当寻求公义，寻求卑微，或者在耶和华发怒的日子，可以隐藏起来。
Seek Jehovah, All you meek of the earth, Who have performed His judgments. Seek righteousness; Seek meekness; Perhaps you will be hidden In the day of
Jehovah's anger.
2:4 因为迦萨必至见弃，亚实基伦必然荒凉；人在正午必赶出亚实突的民，以革伦也被拔出根来。
For Gaza will be a forsaken city, And Ashkelon will become a desolation; As for Ashdod, they will drive it out at noontime, And Ekron will be rooted up.
2:5 沿海之地的居民，基利提族的民哪，你们有祸了！非利士人之地迦南阿，耶和华的话与你反对，说，我必毁灭你，以致你那里无人居住。
Woe to you inhabitants of the seacoast, O nation of Cherethites! The word of Jehovah is against you, O Canaan, O land of the Philistines: I will destroy you so that
there will be no inhabitant.
2:6 沿海之地要变为草场，其上有牧人的洞穴和羊群的圈。
And the seacoast will be pastures with shepherds' caves And folds for flocks.
883
2:7 这地带必为犹大家余剩的人所得；他们必在其上牧放群羊。他们在晚上必躺卧在亚实基伦的房屋中，因为耶和华他们的神必眷顾他们，使他们被掳的
人归回。
And the area will be For the remnant of the house of Judah; They will feed their flocks upon them. In the houses of Ashkelon they will lie down in the evening, For
Jehovah their God will visit them And turn again their captivity.
2:8 我听见摩押人的辱骂，和亚扪人的毁谤，就是辱骂我的百姓，自夸自大，侵犯他们的境界。
I have heard the reproaching of Moab And the revilings of the children of Ammon, By which they have reproached My people And magnified themselves against
their border.
2:9 因此万军之耶和华以色列的神说，我指着我的生存起誓，摩押必像所多玛，亚扪人必像蛾摩拉，都变为刺草、盐坑之地，永远荒废；我百姓所余剩的
必掳掠他们，我国中所剩下的必承受他们的地。
Therefore as I live, Declares Jehovah of hosts, The God of Israel, Moab will surely be like Sodom, And the children of Ammon like Gomorrah, A possession of
scrubs And salt pits And a perpetual desolation; The remnant of My people will spoil them, And the residue of My nation will inherit them.
2:10 这事临到他们，是因他们骄傲，自夸自大，辱骂万军之耶和华的百姓。
This will they have for their pride, for they reproached and magnified themselves against the people of Jehovah of hosts.
2:11 耶和华必向他们显为可畏；因祂必使地上的诸神消灭，列国众海岛的居民，各在自己的地方敬拜祂。
Jehovah will be terrible to them, for He will make all the gods of the earth vanish, and all the coastlands of the nations will worship Him, each from his own place.
2:12 古实人哪，你们也必被我的刀所杀。
You Cushites also Will be slain by My sword.
2:13 祂必伸手攻击北方，毁灭亚述，使尼尼微荒凉，干旱如同旷野。
And He will stretch out His hand against the north And will destroy Assyria, And will make Nineveh a desolation And a desert, like the wilderness.
2:14 群畜和各类的走兽，必躺卧在其中；鹈鹕和箭猪要宿在柱顶上。在窗户内有鸣叫的声音；门槛都必毁坏；因祂已使香柏木露出。
And herds will stretch out in the midst of her, And animals of every kind; Both the pelican and the porcupine Will lodge in her capitals. Their voice will sing in the
windows; Desolation is upon the threshold; For He has laid the cedar work bare.
2:15 这是素来欢跃安居的城，她心里说，惟有我，除我以外再没有别的。她现在何竟荒凉，成为野兽躺卧之处！凡经过的人都必嗤笑，向她摇手。
This is the jubilant city That dwelt securely, That said in her heart, I am, And there is none besides me. How she has become a desolation, A place for animals to
stretch out! Everyone who passes by her will hiss And wave his hand at her.
西番雅书 Zephaniah 第 3 章
3:1 这悖逆、污秽、欺压的城有祸了！
Woe to the rebellious and defiled one, To the oppressing city!
3:2 她不听从命令，不领受管教，不信靠耶和华，不亲近她的神。
She has not listened to the voice; She has not taken the correction. She has not trusted in Jehovah; She has not drawn near to her God.
3:3 她中间的首领是吼叫的狮子。她的审判官是晚上的豺狼，一点食物也不留到早晨。
Her princes in the midst of her Are roaring lions. Her judges are wolves of the evening; They have left nothing until the morning.
3:4 她的申言者是虚浮诡诈的人。她的祭司亵渎圣所，强解律法。
Her prophets are vainglorious; They are men of treachery. Her priests have defiled the sanctuary; They have done violence to the law.
3:5 耶和华在她中间是公义的，断不作不义的事，每早晨显明祂的公平，从无失误；只是不义的人不知羞耻。
Jehovah is righteous in the midst of her; He does no wrong; Morning by morning He brings His justice to light; He does not fail; but he who is wrong knows no
shame.
3:6 我耶和华已经剪除列国；他们的角楼毁坏；我使他们的街道荒凉，以致无人经过；他们的城邑毁灭，以致无人，也无居民。
I have cut off nations; Their battlements are desolated; I have made their streets a waste, So that no one passes through; Their cities are destroyed, So that there
is no one, So that there is no inhabitant.
3:7 我说，你只要敬畏我，领受管教；如此，她的住处就不致照我所拟定的被除灭；只是他们从早起来，在一切所行的事上败坏自己。
I said, Only fear Me; Take the correction; That her habitation might not be cut off, According to all that I have appointed concerning her. But they rose up early to
corrupt All their deeds.
3:8 耶和华说，因此你们要等候我，直到我兴起掳掠的日子，因为我裁定要招聚列国，聚集列邦，将我的恼怒，就是我的烈怒，都倾倒在他们身上；因为
在我嫉愤的火中，全地必被烧灭。
Therefore wait on Me, declares Jehovah, For the day when I rise up to the prey. For My decision is to assemble the nations, To gather kingdoms together, That I
may pour out upon them My wrath, All My burning anger; For in the fire of My jealousy All the earth will be devoured.
3:9 那时，我必使万民改用纯洁的语言，好叫他们都呼求我耶和华的名，同心合意的事奉我。
For then I will change the language of the peoples Into a pure language That they may all call upon the name of Jehovah, To serve Him with one accord.
3:10 向我祈求的，就是我所分散的女子，必从古实河外将素祭带来给我。
From beyond the rivers of Cush my suppliants, The daughter of My dispersed, will bring My meal offering.
3:11 当那日，你必不因所行一切得罪我的事，自觉羞愧；因为那时我必从你中间除掉那些高傲矜夸的人，在我的圣山上，你必不再狂傲。
In that day you will not be put to shame because of all your deeds, By which you have transgressed against Me; For then I will take away from your midst Those
who exult in your majesty, And you will never again be haughty On My holy mountain.
3:12 我却要在你中间，留下困苦贫寒的民；他们必投靠我耶和华的名。
And I will leave in the midst of you An afflicted and poor people, And they will take refuge in the name of Jehovah.
3:13 以色列所余剩的人，必不作罪孽，不说谎言，口中也没有诡诈的舌头；因为他们必得草场躺卧，无人惊吓。
The remnant of Israel will not do wrong; And they will not speak lies, Nor will there be found in their mouth A deceitful tongue; For they will have pasture and lie
down, And there will be no one to frighten them.
3:14 锡安的女子阿，应当欢呼！以色列阿，应当夸胜呼喊！耶路撒冷的女子阿，应当满心欢喜快乐！
Give a ringing shout, O daughter of Zion! Shout in triumph, O Israel! Rejoice and exult with all your heart, O daughter of Jerusalem!
3:15 耶和华已经除去你的刑罚，赶走你的仇敌；以色列的王耶和华在你中间，你必不再看见灾祸。
Jehovah has taken away your judgments; He has turned aside your enemy. The King of Israel, Jehovah, is in the midst of you; You will not see evil again.
884
3:16 当那日，必有话向耶路撒冷说，不要惧怕；锡安哪，手不要下垂。
In that day it will be said to Jerusalem, Fear not, O Zion; Let not your hands drop.
3:17 耶和华你的神在你中间，是施行拯救的大能者；祂必因你欢欣喜乐，默然爱你，且因你喜乐而欢呼。
Jehovah your God in the midst of you Is a mighty One who saves; He will be jubilant over you with rejoicing; He will rest in His love; He will exult over you with a
ringing shout.
3:18 我必聚集那些属你，为所定的大会愁烦的人，他们担负了羞辱。
I will gather those who mourn for the appointed assembly, Who were of you. The reproach was a burden upon them.
3:19 那时，我必惩办一切苦待你的人，又拯救瘸腿的，聚集被赶出的。我必使他们在各地，就是在他们受羞辱之地，得称赞，有名声。
Indeed at that time I will deal with all who afflict you; And I will save that which is lame, And that which has been driven away I will gather. And I will make them a
praise and a name In every land where their shame had been.
3:20 那时我必领你们进来，那时我必聚集你们；因为我在你们眼前使你们被掳之人归回的时候，必使你们在地上的万民中有名声，得称赞。这是耶和华说
的。
At that time I will bring you in, And at that time I will gather you; For I will cause you to be a name and a praise Among all the peoples of the earth, When I turn
again your captivity before your eyes, Says Jehovah.
885
37. 哈该书 Haggai
哈该书 Haggai 第 1 章
1:1 大利乌王第二年六月初一日，耶和华的话藉申言者哈该，临到撒拉铁的儿子犹大省长所罗巴伯，和约撒答的儿子大祭司约书亚，说，
In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, on the first day of the month, the word of Jehovah came through Haggai the prophet unto Zerubbabel
the son of Shealtiel, the governor of Judah, and unto Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, saying,
1:2 万军之耶和华如此说，这百姓说，建造耶和华殿的时候尚未来到。
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, saying, This people says, The time has not come, the time for the house of Jehovah to be built.
1:3 那时耶和华的话藉申言者哈该临到，说，
Then the word of Jehovah came through Haggai the prophet, saying,
1:4 这殿仍然荒凉，这时候你们自己还住天花板的房屋么？
Is it time for you yourselves to dwell in your paneled-up houses, while this house lies waste?
1:5 现在万军之耶和华如此说，你们要省察自己的行径。
Now therefore thus says Jehovah of hosts, Consider your ways.
1:6 你们撒的种多，收的却少；你们吃，却不得饱；喝，却不得足；穿衣服，却不得暖；得工钱的，将工钱装在破漏的囊中。
You have sown much, but you bring in little; you eat, but there is no satisfaction; you drink, but there is no being filled with drink; you dress yourselves, but there is
no warmth in doing so; and he who earns wages, earns wages to put them into a bag with holes.
1:7 万军之耶和华如此说，你们要省察自己的行径。
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, Consider your ways.
1:8 你们要上山取木料，建造这殿；我就因此喜乐，且得荣耀；这是耶和华说的。
Go up to the mountain and bring wood and build the house, and I will take pleasure in it and will be glorified, says Jehovah.
1:9 你们盼望多得，所得的却少；你们收到家中，我就吹去。这是为什么呢？因为我的殿荒凉，你们各人却奔向自己的房屋；这是万军之耶和华说的。
You looked for much, and yet it amounted to little; and when you brought it home, I blew on it. Why? declares Jehovah of hosts. Because of My house that lies
waste while you each run to your own house.
1:10 所以为你们的缘故，天就不降甘露，地也不出土产。
Therefore over you the heavens withhold their dew, and the earth withholds its yield.
1:11 我召唤干旱临到地土、山冈、五谷、新酒和新油，并地的出产、人民、牲畜，以及人手一切劳碌得来的。
Indeed I called for a drought upon the land and upon the mountains and upon the grain and upon the new wine and upon the fresh oil and upon that which the
ground brings forth and upon man and upon beast and upon all the toil of the hands.
1:12 那时，撒拉铁的儿子所罗巴伯和约撒答的儿子大祭司约书亚，并一切余剩的百姓，都听从耶和华他们神的话，和耶和华他们神所差来申言者哈该的话；
百姓也在耶和华面前存敬畏的心。
And Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and all the remnant of the people listened to the voice of Jehovah their
God and to the words of Haggai the prophet, as Jehovah their God had sent him; and the people were in fear before Jehovah.
1:13 耶和华的使者哈该奉耶和华的差使对百姓说，耶和华说，我与你们同在。
Then Haggai, Jehovah's messenger, spoke in Jehovah's message to the people, saying, I am with you, declares Jehovah.
1:14 耶和华激动撒拉铁的儿子犹大省长所罗巴伯的灵，和约撒答的儿子大祭司约书亚的灵，并一切余剩之百姓的灵；他们就来，在万军之耶和华他们神的
殿作工。
And Jehovah stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, the governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and the
spirit of all the remnant of the people; and they came and did work in the house of Jehovah of hosts their God,
1:15 这是在大利乌王第二年六月二十四日。
On the twenty-fourth day of the month, in the sixth month, in the second year of Darius the king.
哈该书 Haggai 第 2 章
2:1 七月二十一日，耶和华的话藉申言者哈该临到，说，
In the seventh month, on the twenty- first day of the month, the word of Jehovah came through Haggai the prophet, saying,
2:2 你要告诉撒拉铁的儿子犹大省长所罗巴伯，和约撒答的儿子大祭司约书亚，并余剩的百姓，说，
Speak now to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, the governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and to the remnant of the people,
saying,
2:3 你们中间存留的，有谁见过这殿先前的荣耀呢？现在你们看着如何？岂不在你们眼中看如无有么？
Who is left among you who saw this house in its former glory? And how do you see it now? Is it not as nothing in your eyes?
2:4 耶和华说，所罗巴伯阿，虽然如此，现在你当刚强；约撒答的儿子大祭司约书亚阿，你也当刚强；耶和华说，这地的一切百姓，你们都当刚强作工，
因为我与你们同在；这是万军之耶和华说的。
Yet now be strong, O Zerubbabel, declares Jehovah; and be strong, O Joshua, son of Jehozadak, the high priest; and be strong, all you people of the land,
declares Jehovah, and work; for I am with you, declares Jehovah of hosts.
2:5 这就是你们出埃及时我与你们立约的话；现今我的灵留在你们中间；你们不要惧怕。
The word which I covenanted with you when you came forth from Egypt and My Spirit endure among you; do not fear.
2:6 因为万军之耶和华如此说，过不多时我必再一次震动天、地、海与旱地；
For thus says Jehovah of hosts, Yet once more-it is but a little while-I will shake the heavens and the earth and the sea and the dry land;
2:7 我必震动万国，万国所羡慕的必来到；我必使这殿满了荣耀；这是万军之耶和华说的。
And I will shake all the nations, and the Desire of all the nations will come; and I will fill this house with glory, says Jehovah of hosts.
2:8 万军之耶和华说，银子是我的，金子也是我的。
The silver is Mine, and the gold is Mine, declares Jehovah of hosts.
2:9 这殿后来的荣耀，必大过先前的荣耀，这是万军之耶和华说的；在这地方我必赐平安，这是万军之耶和华说的。
886
The latter glory of this house will be greater than the former, says Jehovah of hosts; and in this place I will give peace, declares Jehovah of hosts.
2:10 大利乌王第二年九月二十四日，耶和华的话临到申言者哈该，说，
In the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, the word of Jehovah came to Haggai the prophet, saying,
2:11 万军之耶和华如此说，你要向祭司求问训诲，说，
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, Ask now the priests for instruction, saying,
2:12 若有人用衣襟兜圣肉，这衣襟挨着饼，或煮的食物，或酒，或油，或任何别的食物，这些便成为圣么？祭司回答说，不成为圣。
If one carries holy flesh in the skirt of his garment, and with his skirt he touches bread or boiled food or wine or oil or any other food, will it become holy? And the
priests answered and said, No.
2:13 哈该又说，若有人因摸死尸而不洁，然后挨着这些物的任何一样，这物就为不洁么？祭司回答说，必为不洁。
Then Haggai said, If one who is unclean because of a corpse touches any of these, will it be unclean? And the priests answered and said, It will be unclean.
2:14 于是哈该回答说，耶和华说，在我面前这民也是如此，这国也是如此；他们手中的各样工作，都是如此。因此，他们在那里所献的，乃为不洁。
Then Haggai answered and said, So is this people and so is this nation before Me, declares Jehovah, and so is all the work of their hands. Thus what they offer
there is unclean.
2:15 现在你们要省察，此日以前，在耶和华的殿还没有一块石头垒在石头上以前，
And now, consider from this day and previously, before a stone was set upon a stone in the temple of Jehovah,
2:16 在这些日子以前，有人来到谷堆，想得二十细亚，只得了十细亚；有人来到酒池，想舀五十桶，只得了二十桶。
Before these days were, someone would come to a grain heap for twenty measures, and there would be only ten; someone would come to a vat to draw fifty
troughfuls, and there would be only twenty.
2:17 在你们手中的各样工作上，我以旱风、霉烂、冰雹攻击你们，你们仍不归向我；这是耶和华说的。
I struck you with blight and with mildew and with hail on all the work of your hands; but on your part, none turned to Me, declares Jehovah.
2:18 你们要省察此日以前，就是从九月二十四日起，从耶和华殿立定根基的日子起，你们要省察。
Consider from this day and previously, from the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, from the day when the foundation of the temple of Jehovah was laid;
consider.
2:19 仓里仍有谷种么？甚至葡萄树、无花果树、石榴树、橄榄树都没有结果子；从今日起，我必赐福与你们。
Is there yet seed in the barn? Indeed even the vine and the fig tree and the pomegranate and the olive tree have not borne fruit; from this day I will bless you.
2:20 这月二十四日，耶和华的话第二次临到哈该，说，
And the word of Jehovah came a second time to Haggai on the twenty-fourth day of the month, saying,
2:21 你要告诉犹大省长所罗巴伯说，我必震动天地。
Speak to Zerubbabel the governor of Judah, saying, I will shake the heavens and the earth.
2:22 我必倾覆列国的宝座，除灭列邦的势力；我必倾覆战车和坐在其上的，马和骑马的都必坠落，各人被弟兄的刀所杀。
And I will overthrow the throne of the kingdoms and will destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the nations; and I will overthrow the chariots and their riders, and
the horses and their riders will go down, each by the sword of his brother.
2:23 耶和华说，撒拉铁的儿子，我仆人所罗巴伯阿，到那日，万军之耶和华说，我必选取你，使你为印记，因我拣选了你；这是万军之耶和华说的。
In that day, declares Jehovah of hosts, I will take you, O Zerubbabel, son of Shealtiel, My servant, declares Jehovah, and make you as a signet; for I have chosen
you, declares Jehovah of hosts.
887
38. 撒迦利亚书 Zechariah
撒迦利亚书 Zechariah 第 1 章
1:1 大利乌王第二年八月，耶和华的话临到易多的孙子，比利家的儿子，申言者撒迦利亚，说，
In the eighth month, in the second year of Darius, the word of Jehovah came to Zechariah the prophet, the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo, saying,
1:2 耶和华曾向你们列祖大大发怒；
Jehovah was extremely angry with your fathers;
1:3 所以你要对以色列人说，万军之耶和华如此说，你们要转向我，我就转向你们；这是万军之耶和华说的。
Therefore say to them, Thus says Jehovah of hosts, Return to Me, declares Jehovah of hosts, and I will return to you, says Jehovah of hosts.
1:4 不要像你们的列祖；从前的申言者呼叫他们说，万军之耶和华如此说，你们要回转离开你们邪恶的行径和作为；他们却不听，也不向我侧耳；这是耶
和华说的。
Do not be like your fathers, to whom the former prophets cried, saying, Thus says Jehovah of hosts, Turn from your evil ways and from your evil deeds; but they
did not hear nor hearken to Me, declares Jehovah.
1:5 你们的列祖在那里呢？那些申言者能永远活着么？
Your fathers, where are they? And the prophets, do they live forever?
1:6 只是我的言语和律例，就是我所吩咐我仆人众申言者的，岂不追上了你们列祖么？他们就回转，说，万军之耶和华定意按我们的行径和作为向我们怎
样行，祂已照样行了。
But My words and My statutes, which I commanded My servants the prophets, did they not overtake your fathers, so that they returned and said, As Jehovah of
hosts has thought to do with us, according to our ways and according to our deeds, so has He done with us?
1:7 大利乌第二年十一月，就是细罢特月，二十四日，耶和华的话临到易多的孙子，比利家的儿子，申言者撒迦利亚，说，
On the twenty-fourth day of the eleventh month, which is the month Shebat, in the second year of Darius, the word of Jehovah came to Zechariah the prophet,
the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo, saying,
1:8 我夜间观看，见一人骑着红马，站在洼地番石榴树中间；在祂后面还有红色、红棕色和白色的马。
I saw during the night, and behold, a man was riding upon a red horse; and He was standing among the myrtle trees that were in the bottoms; and behind Him
there were red, reddish-brown, and white horses.
1:9 我就说，我主阿，这些是什么意思？那与我说话的天使对我说，我要指示你这些是什么意思。
Then I said, What are these, sir? And the angel who spoke with me said to me, I will show you what these are.
1:10 那站在番石榴树中间的人说，这些是耶和华所差遣，在地上巡行的。
And the man who stood among the myrtle trees answered and said, These are those whom Jehovah has sent to go to and fro on the earth.
1:11 那些骑马的，对站在番石榴树中间耶和华的使者回报说，我们已经巡行遍地，见全地的人都安居平静。
And they answered the Angel of Jehovah, who was standing among the myrtle trees, and they said, We have gone to and fro on the earth, and indeed all the
earth sits still and is quiet.
1:12 于是耶和华的使者说，万军之耶和华阿，你恼恨耶路撒冷和犹大的城邑已经七十年了；你不施怜恤要到几时呢？
Then the Angel of Jehovah answered and said, O Jehovah of hosts, how long will You not have compassion on Jerusalem and on the cities of Judah, with which
You have been indignant for these seventy years?
1:13 耶和华就用美善的话，用安慰的话，回答那与我说话的天使。
And Jehovah answered the angel who spoke with me with good words, with comforting words.
1:14 与我说话的天使对我说，你要呼喊说，万军之耶和华如此说，我为耶路撒冷，为锡安，极其嫉愤；
So the angel who spoke to me said to me, Cry out, saying, Thus says Jehovah of hosts: I am greatly jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion;
1:15 我甚恼怒那安逸的列国；因为我从前不过稍微恼怒我民，他们却助增我民的祸患。
And I am extremely angry with the nations, who are at ease; for I was only a little angry, but their help increased the affliction.
1:16 所以耶和华如此说，我要带着怜恤回到耶路撒冷；我的殿必重建在其中，准绳必拉在耶路撒冷之上；这是万军之耶和华说的。
Therefore thus says Jehovah, I return to Jerusalem with compassions; My house will be built in it, declares Jehovah of hosts, and a measuring line will be
stretched over Jerusalem.
1:17 你要再呼喊说，万军之耶和华如此说，我的城邑必再福乐满溢，耶和华必再安慰锡安，必再拣选耶路撒冷。
Cry out again, saying, Thus says Jehovah of hosts, My cities will again overflow with good, and Jehovah will again comfort Zion and will again choose Jerusalem.
1:18 我又举目观看，见有四角。
Then I lifted up my eyes and looked, and there were four horns.
1:19 我就问与我说话的天使，说，这些是什么意思？他对我说，这些就是把犹大、以色列和耶路撒冷打散的角。
And I said to the angel who spoke with me, What are these? And he said to me, These are the horns that have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem.
1:20 耶和华又指四个匠人给我看。
Then Jehovah showed me four craftsmen.
1:21 我说，他们来作什么？天使说，那些角把犹大打散，以致无人可以抬头；但这些匠人来威吓那些角，要打掉列国的角，就是那攻击打散犹大地之列国
所举起的角。
And I said, What do these come to do? And he spoke, saying, These are the horns that have so scattered Judah that no man lifts up his head, but these have
come to terrify them, to cast down the horns of the nations who have lifted up the horn against the land of Judah to scatter it.
撒迦利亚书 Zechariah 第 2 章
2:1 我又举目观看，见有一人，手拿准绳。
Then I lifted up my eyes and I looked, and there was a man, and in His hand was a measuring line.
2:2 我说，你往那里去？祂对我说，我要去量耶路撒冷，看有多宽，多长。
And I said, Where are you going? And He said to me, To measure Jerusalem; to see how great its breadth is and how great its length is.
2:3 与我说话的天使离去的时候，另有一位天使前来迎着他，
888
Then at that point the angel who spoke with me went forth and another angel came forth to meet him.
2:4 对他说，你跑去告诉那少年人，说，耶路撒冷必像开阔的地区，因为其中的人和牲畜甚多。
And he said to him, Run, speak to this young man, saying, Jerusalem will lie as an open region due to the multitude of men and cattle within it,
2:5 耶和华说，我要作耶路撒冷四围的火墙，并要作其中的荣耀。
For I will be her wall of fire round about, declares Jehovah, and I will be the glory within her.
2:6 耶和华说，嗨！嗨！你们要从北方之地逃走，因为我曾把你们分散出去，犹如天的四风；这是耶和华说的。
Ho! Ho! Flee from the land of the north, declares Jehovah, for I have spread you out like the four winds of the heavens, declares Jehovah.
2:7 嗨！与巴比伦女子同住的锡安民哪，你们要逃走！
Ho, Zion! Escape, you who dwell with the daughter of Babylon.
2:8 因为万军之耶和华如此说，在显出荣耀之后，祂差遣我去攻击那掳掠你们的列国；因为那触着你们的，就是触着祂眼中的瞳人。
For thus says Jehovah of hosts, After the glory He has sent Me against the nations who plunder you; for he who touches you touches the pupil of His eye.
2:9 我在他们以上抡手，他们就必作那些服事他们之人的掳物；你们便知道万军之耶和华差遣我了。
For I am now waving My hand over them, and they will be plunder for those who served them; and you will know that Jehovah of hosts has sent Me.
2:10 锡安的女子阿，应当欢呼喜乐，因为我来了，要住在你中间；这是耶和华说的。
Give a ringing shout and rejoice, O daughter of Zion, for now I am coming, and I will dwell in your midst, declares Jehovah.
2:11 那日，必有许多国归附耶和华，作我的子民；我要住在你中间，你就知道万军之耶和华差遣我到你那里去了。
And many nations will join themselves to Jehovah in that day and will become My people; and I will dwell in your midst, and you will know that Jehovah of hosts
has sent Me to you.
2:12 耶和华必在圣地上得犹大为业，作祂的分，也必再拣选耶路撒冷。
And Jehovah will inherit Judah as His portion upon the holy land, and He will again choose Jerusalem.
2:13 凡有血肉的，都当在耶和华面前静默无声！因为祂兴起，从祂圣别的居所出来了。
Hush, all flesh, before Jehovah! For He is roused up from His holy habitation.
撒迦利亚书 Zechariah 第 3 章
3:1 祂又指给我看，大祭司约书亚站在耶和华的使者面前，撒但也站在约书亚的右边，作他的对头。
Then He showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the Angel of Jehovah and Satan standing at his right hand to be his adversary.
3:2 耶和华对撒但说，撒但哪，耶和华责备你！就是拣选耶路撒冷的耶和华责备你！这不是从火中抽出来的一根柴么？
And Jehovah said to Satan, Jehovah rebuke you, Satan! Indeed, Jehovah, who has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you! Is this not a brand plucked from the fire?
3:3 约书亚穿着污秽的衣服，站在那使者面前。
Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments and was standing before the Angel.
3:4 祂吩咐那些站在祂面前的说，你们要脱去他身上污秽的衣服。又对约书亚说，你看，我使你的罪孽离开你，给你穿上华美的衣袍。
And He answered and spoke to those standing before Him, saying, Remove the filthy garments from him. Then He said to him, See, I hereby make your iniquity
pass from you and clothe you with stately robes.
3:5 祂说，要将洁净的顶冠戴在他头上。他们就把洁净的顶冠戴在他头上，给他穿上华美的衣服，耶和华的使者在旁边站立。
And He said, Let them put a clean turban upon his head. And they put the clean turban upon his head and clothed him with garments while the Angel of Jehovah
stood by.
3:6 耶和华的使者向约书亚作见证说，
And the Angel of Jehovah testified to Joshua, saying,
3:7 万军之耶和华如此说，你若遵行我的道路，谨守我所吩咐的，你就可以审理我的家，看守我的院宇；我也要使你在这些站立在这里的使者中间来往。
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, If you will walk in My ways and if you will keep My charge, then you will both judge My house and keep My courts, and I will grant
you to walk among these standing here.
3:8 大祭司约书亚阿，你和坐在你面前的同伴都当听。(他们是作豫兆的人。)我必使我的仆人，就是那苗，发出来。
Hear then, Joshua the high priest, you and your fellows who sit before you-for they are men of symbol-for I am about to bring forth My Servant, the Shoot.
3:9 看哪，我在约书亚面前所安置的石头，在一块石头上有七眼。万军之耶和华说，我要亲自雕刻这石头，并要在一日之间除掉那地的罪孽。
For here is the stone that I have set before Joshua-upon one stone are seven eyes. I will engrave its engraving, declares Jehovah of hosts, and I will remove the
iniquity of that land in one day.
3:10 当那日你们各人要请邻舍坐在葡萄树和无花果树下；这是万军之耶和华说的。
In that day, declares Jehovah of hosts, each of you will invite his neighbor to come under the vine and under the fig tree.
撒迦利亚书 Zechariah 第 4 章
4:1 那与我说话的天使回来叫醒我，好像人睡觉被叫醒一样。
Then the angel who spoke with me returned and roused me as a man is roused from his sleep.
4:2 他问我说，你看见什么？我说，我看见一个灯台，全是金的，顶上有油碗；灯台上有七灯，顶上的七灯各有七个管子；
And he said to me, What do you see? And I said, I see that there is a lampstand all of gold, with its bowl on top of it and its seven lamps upon it, with seven pipes
for each of the lamps on top of it;
4:3 旁边有两棵橄榄树，一棵在油碗的右边，一棵在油碗的左边。
And there are two olive trees beside it, one to the right of the bowl and one to the left.
4:4 我问与我说话的天使说，我主阿，这些是什么意思？
And I answered and spoke to the angel who spoke with me, saying, What are these, sir?
4:5 与我说话的天使回答我说，你不知道这些是什么意思么？我说，我主阿，我不知道。
And the angel who spoke with me answered and said to me, Do you not know what these are? And I said, No, sir.
4:6 他回答我说，这是耶和华给所罗巴伯的话，说，万军之耶和华说，不是倚靠权势，不是倚靠能力，乃是倚靠我的灵。
889
And he answered and spoke to me, saying, This is the word of Jehovah to Zerubbabel, saying, Not by might nor by power, but by My Spirit, says Jehovah of hosts.
4:7 大山哪，你算什么？在所罗巴伯面前你必成为平地；他必搬出那块顶石，人必大声欢呼，说，愿恩典恩典，归与这石。
Who are you, O great mountain? Before Zerubbabel you will become a plain, and he will bring forth the topstone with shouts of Grace, grace to it.
4:8 耶和华的话又临到我，说，
Moreover the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
4:9 所罗巴伯的手立了这殿的根基，他的手也必完成这工；你就知道万军之耶和华差遣我到你们这里来了。
The hands of Zerubbabel have laid the foundation of this house, and his hands will finish it; and you will know that Jehovah of hosts has sent Me to you.
4:10 谁藐视这日的事为小呢？这七眼乃是耶和华的眼睛，遍察全地，见所罗巴伯手拿线铊就欢喜。
For who has despised the day of small things? For these seven rejoice when they see the plummet in the hand of Zerubbabel; they are the eyes of Jehovah
running to and fro on the whole earth.
4:11 我又问天使说，这灯台左右的两棵橄榄树，是什么意思？
Then I answered and said to him, What are these two olive trees on the right of the lampstand and on its left?
4:12 我第二次问他说，在两个金嘴旁边，这两根流出金油的橄榄枝是什么意思？
And I answered a second time and said to him, What are the two olive branches that are by the side of the two golden spouts, which empty the gold from
themselves?
4:13 他对我说，你不知道这是什么意思么？我说，我主阿，我不知道。
And he spoke to me, saying, Do you not know what these are? And I said, No, sir.
4:14 他说，这是两个油的儿子，站在全地之主的旁边。
And he said, These are the two sons of oil, who stand by the Lord of the whole earth.
撒迦利亚书 Zechariah 第 5 章
5:1 我又举目观看，见有一飞行的书卷。
Then I lifted up my eyes again and I saw, and there was a flying scroll.
5:2 他问我说，你看见什么？我说，我看见一飞行的书卷，长二十肘，宽十肘。
And he said to me, What do you see? And I said, I see a flying scroll, its length twenty cubits and its breadth ten cubits.
5:3 他对我说，这是发出行在遍地上的咒诅；凡偷窃的必按卷上这面的话被除净，凡起假誓的必按卷上那面的话被除净。
Then he said to me, This is the curse that goes forth over the face of all the land; for everyone who steals will be purged according to what is on one side, and
everyone who swears will be purged according to what is on the other side.
5:4 万军之耶和华说，我必使这书卷出去，进入偷窃之人的家，和指我名起假誓之人的家；这书卷必留在他家里，把房屋带木头、石头都毁灭了。
I will cause it to go forth, declares Jehovah of hosts; and it will enter the house of him who steals and the house of him who swears falsely by My name; and it will
lodge overnight within his house and consume it, both with its timbers and its stones.
5:5 与我说话的天使出来，对我说，你要举目，观看所出来的是什么。
Then the angel who spoke with me went forth and said to me, Lift up now your eyes and see what this is that goes forth.
5:6 我说，这是什么？他说，这出来的是量器；他又说，这是恶人在全地的形状；
And I said, What is it? And he said, This is the ephah vessel that goes forth; and he said, This is their appearance in all the land;
5:7 (看哪，有一片圆铅被举起来；)这坐在量器中的是个妇人。
(Then a lead cover was lifted up) and this is a woman sitting within the ephah vessel.
5:8 天使说，这是罪恶。他就把妇人扔在量器中，将那片圆铅扔在量器的口上。
Then he said, This is Wickedness. And he threw her down into the midst of the ephah vessel and threw the lead weight over its opening.
5:9 我又举目观看，见有两个妇人出来，在她们的翅膀中有风，翅膀如同鹳鸟的翅膀。她们将量器抬在天地之间。
Then I lifted up my eyes and I looked, and there were two women going forth, and the wind was in their wings; and they had wings like the wings of a stork. And
they lifted up the ephah vessel between the earth and the heavens.
5:10 我问与我说话的天使说，她们要将量器抬到那里去？
And I said to the angel who spoke with me, Where are they taking the ephah vessel?
5:11 他对我说，要在示拿地为她盖造房屋；等房屋齐备，就在那里把她安置在自己的地方。
And he said to me, To build a house for her in the land of Shinar; and when it is prepared, she will be set there in her own place.
撒迦利亚书 Zechariah 第 6 章
6:1 我又举目观看，见有四辆车从两山中间出来；那两山是铜山。
Then I lifted up my eyes again and I looked, and there were four chariots coming forth from between the two mountains; and the mountains were mountains of
bronze.
6:2 第一辆车套着红马，第二辆车套着黑马，
With the first chariot were red horses, and with the second chariot were black horses,
6:3 第三辆车套着白马，第四辆车套着有斑点的壮马。
And with the third chariot were white horses, and with the fourth chariot were strong, speckled horses.
6:4 我就问与我说话的天使说，我主阿，这些是什么意思？
And I answered and said to the angel who spoke with me, What are these, sir?
6:5 天使回答我说，这些是天的四风，是在全地的主面前侍立而从那里出来的。
And the angel answered and said to me, These are the four winds of heaven who go forth from presenting themselves to the Lord of the whole earth.
6:6 套着黑马的车出来，往北方之地去，白马随后出来；有斑点的马出来，往南方之地去。
With one of the winds the black horses went forth to the land of the north, and the white horses went forth after them, and the speckled horses went forth to the
land of the south.
890
6:7 壮马出来，想要在地上巡行。祂说，你们只管在地上巡行；它们就在地上巡行。
And the strong horses went forth and sought to proceed to go to and fro on the earth. And He said, Proceed to go to and fro on the earth; and they went to and
fro on the earth.
6:8 祂又呼叫我，对我说，看哪，这些出来往北方之地去的，已在北方之地使我的灵得了安息。
Then He called out to me and spoke to me, saying, See, these who are going forth to the land of the north have given My Spirit rest in the land of the north.
6:9 耶和华的话临到我，说，
And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
6:10 你要向被掳之人中的黑玳、多比雅、耶大雅取金银，当日来到西番雅的儿子约西亚家里，他们已从巴比伦回来。
Take from them of the captivity, from Heldai, Tobijah, and Jedaiah, and go the same day and enter the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah, where they have
come from Babylon.
6:11 你要取这金银作冠冕，戴在约撒答的儿子大祭司约书亚的头上，
Indeed, take the silver and gold, and make a splendid crown and put it upon the head of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest,
6:12 对他说，万军之耶和华如此说，看哪，有一人，名为苗；祂要从自己的地方长起来，并要建造耶和华的殿。
And speak to him, saying, Thus speaks Jehovah of hosts, saying, Here is a man, whose name is the Shoot; and He will shoot forth from His place and will build
the temple of Jehovah.
6:13 祂要建造耶和华的殿，并担负尊荣，坐在宝座上掌权；又必在宝座上作祭司，在两职之间筹定和平。
Indeed, it is He who will build the temple of Jehovah; and He will bear majesty and will sit and rule on His throne; and He will be a priest on His throne; and the
counsel of peace will be between the two of them.
6:14 这冠冕要放在耶和华的殿里，归希连、多比雅、耶大雅、和西番雅的儿子贤为记念。
And the splendid crown will be as a reminder in the temple of Jehovah to Helem, Tobijah, Jedaiah, and Hen the son of Zephaniah.
6:15 远方的人也要来建造耶和华的殿，你们就知道万军之耶和华差遣我到你们这里来。你们若留意听从耶和华你们神的话，这事必然成就。
And those who are far off will come and build the temple of Jehovah, and you will know that Jehovah of hosts has sent Me to you. And it will happen, if you fully
obey the voice of Jehovah your God.
撒迦利亚书 Zechariah 第 7 章
7:1 大利乌王第四年九月，就是基斯流月，初四日，耶和华的话临到撒迦利亚。
And in the fourth year of Darius the king the word of Jehovah came to Zechariah on the fourth day of the ninth month, the month Chislev.
7:2 那时伯特利人已经打发沙利色、利坚米勒、并跟从他们的人，去恳求耶和华的恩，
Now the people of Bethel had sent Sharezer and Regemmelech and their men to entreat the favor of Jehovah
7:3 他们问万军之耶和华殿中的祭司，并问申言者说，我这许多年来，在五月间哭泣并分别自己，现在还当这样行么？
By speaking to the priests who belong to the house of Jehovah of hosts and to the prophets, saying, Shall I weep in the fifth month and separate myself, as I have
done these many years?
7:4 万军之耶和华的话就临到我，说，
Then the word of Jehovah of hosts came to me, saying,
7:5 你要对这地的众民和祭司说，你们这七十年在五月和七月禁食悲哀，岂是丝毫向我禁食么？
Speak to all the people of the land and to the priests, saying, When you fasted and mourned in the fifth and seventh months, even for these seventy years, was it
at all for Me that you fasted?
7:6 你们吃，你们喝，岂不是你们自己吃，自己喝么？
And when you eat and when you drink, are you not the ones eating and are you not the ones drinking?
7:7 当耶路撒冷有人居住，正兴盛，四围有城邑，并且南地和低陆都有人居住的时候，耶和华藉从前的申言者所宣告的，岂不是这些话么？
Are not these the words which Jehovah proclaimed by the former prophets when Jerusalem was inhabited and prosperous and had cities round about her, when
the Negev and the lowlands were inhabited?
7:8 耶和华的话又临到撒迦利亚，说，
And the word of Jehovah came to Zechariah, saying,
7:9 万军之耶和华曾对你们的列祖如此说，要按公理审判，各人向弟兄施慈爱和怜恤；
Thus speaks Jehovah of hosts, saying, Judge with judgment of truth, and show lovingkindness and compassion each to his brother;
7:10 不可欺压寡妇、孤儿、寄居的和贫穷人；谁都不可心里谋害弟兄。
And do not oppress the widow and the orphan, the stranger and the poor; and let none of you think evil in your hearts about his brother.
7:11 他们却不肯听从，扭转肩头，塞耳不听；
But they refused to listen, and they turned a stubborn shoulder and closed their ears from hearing;
7:12 使心硬如金钢石，不听训诲，和万军之耶和华用灵藉从前的申言者所传的话；故此，万军之耶和华大发烈怒。
And they set their hearts like flint so as not to hear the instruction and the words which Jehovah of hosts sent by His Spirit through the former prophets; therefore
great wrath came from Jehovah of hosts.
7:13 万军之耶和华说，我呼唤他们，他们不听；照样，他们呼求我，我也不听；
And as He called and they would not hear, so they called and I would not hear, says Jehovah of hosts;
7:14 我用暴风把他们吹散到素不认识的万国中。这样，在他们去后，地就荒凉，甚至无人往返经过；因为他们使美好之地荒凉了。
But with a storm I scattered them away upon all the nations, whom they did not know. Thus the land is desolate behind them, so that no one passes through it
and no one returns to it; for they have made the desirable land desolate.
撒迦利亚书 Zechariah 第 8 章
8:1 万军之耶和华的话临到我，说，
And the word of Jehovah of hosts came, saying,
891
8:2 万军之耶和华如此说，我为锡安极其嫉愤；我为她嫉愤，向她的仇敌大发烈怒。
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, I am jealous for Zion with great jealousy; indeed, I am jealous for her with great wrath.
8:3 耶和华如此说，我要回到锡安，住在耶路撒冷中；耶路撒冷必称为真实的城，万军之耶和华的山必称为圣山。
Thus says Jehovah, I return to Zion, and I will dwell within Jerusalem; and Jerusalem will be called the City of Truth, and the mountain of Jehovah of hosts, the
Holy Mountain.
8:4 万军之耶和华如此说，将来必有年老的男女，坐在耶路撒冷街上；因为年纪老迈，各人手中都拿着杖。
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, Yet again old men and old women will dwell in the streets of Jerusalem, each with his staff in his hand due to the multitude of his
days.
8:5 城中街上必满有男孩女孩玩耍。
And the streets of the city will be full of boys and girls playing in its streets.
8:6 万军之耶和华如此说，当那些日子，这事在余剩的民眼中若看为希奇，在我眼中难道也看为希奇么？这是万军之耶和华说的。
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, If it seems too wonderful in the sight of the remnant of this people in those days, will it also be too wonderful in My sight? declares
Jehovah of hosts.
8:7 万军之耶和华如此说，我要从东方之地，并从日落之地，拯救我的民。
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, I am about to save My people from the land of the east and from the land of the going down of the sun.
8:8 我要领他们来，他们要住在耶路撒冷中；他们要作我的子民，我要作他们的神，都凭真实和公义。
And I will bring them, and they will dwell within Jerusalem; and they will be My people and I will be their God in truth and in righteousness.
8:9 万军之耶和华如此说，当万军之耶和华的殿立下根基，以便建殿的日子，在场的申言者亲口所说的话，这些日子你们既听见了，你们的手就当刚强。
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, Let your hands be strong, you who in these days hear these words from the mouth of the prophets who were there in the day when
the foundation of the house of Jehovah of hosts, that is, the temple, was laid so that it might be built.
8:10 那些日子以前人得不着雇价，牲畜也是如此；且因敌人的缘故，出入的人不得平安；乃因我使众人各自攻击邻舍。
For before those days a man's wages amounted to nothing, and an animal's wages were nothing; and for him who went out or came in there was no peace,
because of the adversary; for I set all men each against his neighbor.
8:11 但如今我待这余剩的民，必不像从前的日子；这是万军之耶和华说的。
But now I will not be to the remnant of this people as I was in the former days, declares Jehovah of hosts;
8:12 因为他们撒种必得平安：葡萄树必结果子，地土必有出产，天也必降甘露。我要使这余剩的民，承受这一切。
For there will be peace for the seed: The vine will give forth its fruit, and the land will give forth its produce, and the heavens will give their dew. And I will cause
the remnant of this people to inherit all these things.
8:13 犹大家和以色列家阿，你们从前在列国中怎样成为可咒诅的，照样，我要拯救你们，使你们成为有福的。你们不要惧怕，手要刚强。
And just as you were a curse among the nations, O house of Judah and house of Israel, so will I save you, and you will be a blessing. Do not fear; let your hands
be strong.
8:14 万军之耶和华如此说，你们列祖惹我发怒的时候，我怎样定意降祸与你们，并没有后悔，(这是万军之耶和华说的，)
For thus says Jehovah of hosts, Just as I intended to do harm to you when your fathers provoked Me to anger, says Jehovah of hosts, and I did not repent,
8:15 这些日子我也照样定意善待耶路撒冷和犹大家；你们不要惧怕。
So again I intend in these days to do good to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah; do not fear.
8:16 你们应当行的是这样：各人与邻舍说实话，在城门口按公理与和平审判；
These are the things which you shall do: Each man speak truth to his neighbor; judge with truth and the judgment of peace in your gates;
8:17 谁都不可心里谋害邻舍，也不可爱起假誓；因为这些事都为我所恨恶，这是耶和华说的。
And let none of you think evil in your hearts about his neighbor; and do not love a false oath; for all these are the things I hate, declares Jehovah.
8:18 万军之耶和华的话临到我，说，
Then the word of Jehovah of hosts came to me, saying,
8:19 万军之耶和华如此说，四月、五月、七月、十月禁食的日子，必变为犹大家欢喜快乐的日子，和欢乐的节期；所以你们要爱真实与和平。
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, The fast of the fourth month and the fast of the fifth month and the fast of the seventh month and the fast of the tenth month will
become joy and rejoicing and cheerful feasts to the house of Judah; therefore love truth and peace.
8:20 万军之耶和华如此说，将来必再有各族的人，和多城的居民来到；
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, Peoples will again come, even the inhabitants of many cities;
8:21 这城的居民必到那城，说，我们要快去恳求耶和华的恩，寻求万军之耶和华；那城的居民必说，我们也要去。
And the inhabitants of one will go to another, saying, Let us go at once to entreat the favor of Jehovah and to seek Jehovah of hosts; and the other: I will go too.
8:22 必有多族的人和强国的民来到耶路撒冷，寻求万军之耶和华，恳求耶和华的恩。
Indeed, many peoples and strong nations will come to seek Jehovah of hosts in Jerusalem and to entreat the favor of Jehovah.
8:23 万军之耶和华如此说，在那些日子，必有十个人，从列国说各种方言的人中出来，拉住一个犹大人的衣襟，说，我们要与你们同去，因为我们听见神
与你们同在了。
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, In those days, from all the languages of the nations, ten men will take hold, indeed, they will take hold of the skirt of a Jewish man,
saying, Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you.
撒迦利亚书 Zechariah 第 9 章
9:1 耶和华话语的默示，指责哈得拉地，这话落定之处是在大马色，(因为耶和华的眼目在人身上，特别在以色列各支派身上，)
The burden of the word of Jehovah against the land of Hadrach, And Damascus will be its resting place (For Jehovah has an eye on man, Especially on the tribes
of Israel),
9:2 也是在与其交界的哈马，并推罗、西顿，因为这二城的人大有智慧。
And Hamath also, which borders on it; Tyre and Sidon, because they are very wise.
9:3 推罗为自己修筑保障，积蓄银子如尘沙，堆起精金如街上的泥土。
For Tyre built herself a stronghold And heaped up silver like dust And gold like the mire of the streets.
9:4 主必夺取她为业，击打她海上的势力；她必被火烧灭。
892
The Lord is about to take possession of her, And He will strike her might in the sea, And she will be consumed with fire.
9:5 亚实基伦看见必惧怕；迦萨看见必甚痛苦；以革伦因失了盼望蒙羞。迦萨必不再有君王，亚实基伦也不再有居民。
Ashkelon will see it and be afraid; Gaza also, and it will writhe much in anguish; And Ekron, for her expectation will have been confounded. And the king will
perish from Gaza, And Ashkelon will not be inhabited.
9:6 混杂的种族必住在亚实突；我必除灭非利士人的骄傲。
And a mixed race will dwell in Ashdod, And I will cut off the pride of the Philistines.
9:7 我必除去他口中所喝之血，和牙齿间可憎之物；他也必作为余剩的人，归与我们的神；他必在犹大像族长，以革伦人必如耶布斯人。
And I will remove his blood from his mouth And his detestable things from between his teeth; And he also will remain unto our God; And he will be like a leader in
Judah, And Ekron will be like a Jebusite.
9:8 我必在我家的四围安营，使敌军不得往返经过；欺压人的必不再临到他们；因为我如今亲眼看顾我的家。
And I will encamp around My house because of an army, Because of him who passes by and returns; And no oppressor will pass over them any more; For now I
see with My eyes.
9:9 锡安的女子阿，应当大大欢腾；耶路撒冷的女子阿，应当欢呼！看哪，你的王来到你这里。祂是公义的，并且施行拯救，卑微柔和的骑着驴，骑着驴
驹，就是驴的崽子。
Exult greatly, O daughter of Zion; Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem! Now your King comes to you. He is righteous and bears salvation, Lowly and riding upon a
donkey, Even upon a colt, the foal of a donkey,
9:10 我必除灭以法莲的战车和耶路撒冷的战马，争战的弓也必除灭；祂必向列国讲和平，祂的权柄必从这海管到那海，从大河管到地极。
And I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim And the horse from Jerusalem, And the battle bow will be cut off; And He will speak peace unto the nations, And His
dominion will be from sea to sea And from the River unto the ends of the earth.
9:11 至于你，我因与你立约的血，将你中间被掳而囚的人，从无水的坑中释放出来。
As for you also, because of the blood of your covenant, I have released your captives from the pit, where there is no water.
9:12 你们被囚而有指望的人哪，要转回保障。我今日说明，我必加倍归还你们。
Turn to the stronghold, O prisoners with hope. This very day I am declaring that I will restore double to you.
9:13 因为我必拿犹大作我上弦的弓，拿以法莲作我张弓的箭；锡安哪，我要激动你的众子，攻击雅完的众子，使你如勇士的刀。
For I will bend Judah for Myself, And I will fill a bow with Ephraim; And I will stir up your sons, O Zion, Against your sons, O Javan; And I will make you like a
warrior's sword.
9:14 耶和华必显现在他们以上，祂的箭必射出像闪电；主耶和华必吹角，乘南方的旋风而行。
And Jehovah will appear above them, And His arrow will go forth like lightning; And the Lord Jehovah will blow the trumpet, And He will go in the whirlwinds of
the south.
9:15 万军之耶和华必保护他们；他们必吞灭仇敌，践踏弹石。他们必喝血喧闹，如同喝醉了酒；他们必像盛满血的碗，像祭坛四角满了血。
Jehovah of hosts will defend them; And they will devour and trample the sling stones. And they will drink; they will be noisy as if with wine; And they will be filled
like a sacrificial basin, Like the corners of the altar.
9:16 当那日，耶和华他们的神必看祂的民如群羊，拯救他们，因为他们必像冠冕上的宝石，在祂的地上发光辉。
And Jehovah their God will save them in that day as the flock of His people, For they will be like the stones of a crown, sparkling in His land.
9:17 因为他们的善何等大，他们的美何其盛！五谷使少男健壮，新酒使处女焕发。
For how great is their goodness, and how great their beauty! Grain will make the young men flourish, And new wine, the virgins.
撒迦利亚书 Zechariah 第 10 章
10:1 当春雨的时候，你们要向发闪电的耶和华求雨；祂必给人降下沛雨，使各人的田地生长菜蔬。
Ask rain of Jehovah At the time of spring rain, Of Jehovah who makes the lightning, And He will give them showers of rain, To everyone herbage in the field.
10:2 因为家神所言的是虚空，占卜者所见的是虚假，所说的是假梦；他们徒然安慰人；所以众人如羊流离，因无牧人就受苦。
For the teraphim have spoken vanity, And the diviners have seen a lie And have spoken false dreams; They comforted in vain. Therefore the people have
wandered like sheep; They are afflicted because there is no shepherd.
10:3 我的怒气向牧人发作，我必惩罚公山羊；因我万军之耶和华眷顾自己的羊群，就是犹大家，必使他们如祂在战阵上的骏马。
My anger is kindled against the shepherds, And I will punish the male goats; For Jehovah of hosts has visited His flock, the house of Judah, And will make them
like His horse of majesty in battle.
10:4 房角石、钉子、争战的弓、和一切掌权的，都从他们而出。
From him will come forth the cornerstone, from him the peg, From him the battle bow, From him every ruler together.
10:5 他们必如勇士，在争战中将仇敌践踏在街上的泥土中；他们必争战，因为耶和华与他们同在；骑马的也必蒙羞。
And they will be as mighty men trampling their enemies In the mire of the streets in the battle; And they will fight, for Jehovah is with them; And the riders of
horses will be put to shame.
10:6 我要坚固犹大家，拯救约瑟家；我要领他们归回，因我怜恤了他们；他们必像未曾遭我弃绝一样；因为我是耶和华他们的神，我必应允他们的祷告。
And I will strengthen the house of Judah, And I will save the house of Joseph; And I will bring them back, for I have had compassion on them; And they will be as
though I had not rejected them; For I am Jehovah their God, and I will answer them.
10:7 以法莲人必如勇士，他们心中欢喜如同喝酒；他们的儿女必看见而欢喜；他们的心必因耶和华欢腾。
And they of Ephraim will be like a mighty man, And their hearts will rejoice as if with wine; Indeed, their children will see it and rejoice; Their heart will exult in
Jehovah.
10:8 我要向他们发哨声，聚集他们，因我已经救赎他们；他们的人数必增多，如从前增多一样。
I will whistle for them and gather them, for I have redeemed them; And they will multiply as they have multiplied.
10:9 我必播散他们在万民中，他们在远方必记念我；他们与儿女都必存活，且得归回。
And I will sow them among the peoples; and in distant lands they will remember Me; And they will live with their children and return.
10:10 我也必领他们从埃及地归回，招聚他们出亚述；我必领他们到基列地和利巴嫩；那里必不够他们居住。
I will also bring them back from the land of Egypt And gather them out of Assyria; And to the land of Gilead and Lebanon I will bring them; And there will not be
enough room found for them.
893
10:11 耶和华必经过困苦海，击打海浪，尼罗河的深处都必枯干；亚述的骄傲必降为卑，埃及的权杖必然消逝。
And He will pass through the sea of distress And strike the waves in the sea, And all the depths of the Nile will dry up; And the pride of Assyria will be brought
down, And the scepter of Egypt will depart.
10:12 我必使他们因耶和华得坚固，他们必奉祂的名行事为人，这是耶和华说的。
And I will strengthen them in Jehovah, And they will walk about in His name, Declares Jehovah.
撒迦利亚书 Zechariah 第 11 章
11:1 利巴嫩哪，打开你的门，任火烧灭你的香柏树。
Open your doors, O Lebanon, That the fire may devour your cedars.
11:2 松树阿，应当哀号，因为香柏树倾倒，壮大的树毁坏。巴珊的橡树阿，应当哀号，因为茂密的树林已经倒下。
Howl, O fir tree, for the cedar has fallen, Because the majestic trees are devastated. Howl, O oaks of Bashan, For the impenetrable forest is brought down.
11:3 听阿，有牧人哀号的声音！因他们的荣华毁坏了。有少壮狮子咆哮的声音！因约但河边的丛林毁坏了。
The sound of the howling of shepherds! For their majesty is devastated. The sound of the roaring of young lions! For the pride of Jordan is devastated.
11:4 耶和华我的神如此说，你要牧养这将宰的群羊；
Thus says Jehovah my God, Shepherd the flock of slaughter,
11:5 买他们的宰了他们，没有受到惩罚；卖他们的说，耶和华是当受颂赞的，因我成为富足；牧养他们的并不怜惜他们。
Whose owners slaughter them and are not punished; and they who sell them say, Blessed be Jehovah, for I am rich; and their own shepherds do not spare them.
11:6 耶和华说，我不再怜惜这地的居民；我必将各人交在他的邻舍手中，并他的王手中；他们必击打这地，我必不救这地的居民脱离他们的手。
For I will no longer spare the inhabitants of the land, declares Jehovah; but I am about to cause each man to fall into his neighbor's hand and into the hand of his
king; and they will strike the land, and I will not deliver them from their hand.
11:7 于是我牧养这将宰的群羊，就是群中困苦的羊。我拿着两根杖；一根我称为恩惠，一根我称为联索；我就牧养了群羊。
So I shepherded the flock of slaughter, and thereby the afflicted of the flock. And I took to myself two staffs; one I called Favor, and the other I called Bonds; and I
shepherded the flock.
11:8 一月之内，我除灭三个牧人；因为我的心厌烦他们，他们的心也憎嫌我。
Then I destroyed the three shepherds in one month; for my soul was impatient with them, and their soul also detested me.
11:9 我就说，我不牧养你们；要死的由他死，要毁灭的由他毁灭，余剩的由他们吃彼此的肉。
Then I said, I will not shepherd you. What is to die will die, and what is to be destroyed will be destroyed, and those who are left will each eat one another's flesh.
11:10 我将我那根称为恩惠的杖拿来折断，表明我废弃我与万民所立的约。
And I took my staff, Favor, and I broke it in pieces so as to break my covenant which I had made with all the peoples.
11:11 当日就废弃了；这样，群中那些注视我的困苦羊，就知道这是耶和华的话。
And it was broken in that day; and thus the afflicted of the flock, who watched me, knew that it was the word of Jehovah.
11:12 我对他们说，你们若以为美，就给我工价；不然，就罢了。于是他们称了三十锭银子作为我的工价。
And I said to them, If it is good in your sight, give me my wages; but if not, do not bother. So they weighed out my wages, thirty pieces of silver.
11:13 耶和华对我说，要把众人所估定美好的价值，丢给窑户。我便拿了这三十锭银子，丢在耶和华的殿中，给了窑户。
And Jehovah said to me, Throw it to the potter, that magnificent price that I am priced with by them. So I took the thirty pieces of silver and threw them to the
potter, into the house of Jehovah.
11:14 我又折断我那称为联索的第二根杖，表明我废弃犹大与以色列之间的弟兄情谊。
Then I broke my second staff, Bonds, in pieces, so as to break the brotherhood between Judah and Israel.
11:15 耶和华又对我说，你再拿愚昧牧人的器具。
And Jehovah said to me, Again, take the equipment of a foolish shepherd.
11:16 因我要在这地兴起一个牧人；他不看顾丧亡的，不寻找分散的，不医治受伤的，也不供养健壮的，却要吃肥羊的肉，撕裂它们的蹄子。
For I am about to raise up a shepherd in the land who will not visit those who are perishing, nor seek the scattered, nor heal what is broken, nor sustain what
stands, but will devour the flesh of the fat ones and tear off their hooves.
11:17 那丢弃羊群的无用牧人有祸了！刀必落在他的膀臂和右眼上；他的膀臂必全然枯干，他的右眼必全然昏暗。
Woe to the worthless shepherd, Who abandons the flock! The sword will fall on his arm And on his right eye. His arm will be utterly withered, And his right eye will
be totally darkened.
撒迦利亚书 Zechariah 第 12 章
12:1 耶和华论以色列之话语的默示。铺张诸天、建立地基、造人里面之灵的耶和华说，
The burden of the word of Jehovah concerning Israel. Thus declares Jehovah, who stretches forth the heavens and lays the foundations of the earth and forms
the spirit of man within him,
12:2 我必使耶路撒冷向四围的万民成为令人昏醉的杯；耶路撒冷被围困时所遭遇的，犹大也必遭遇。
I am about to make Jerusalem a cup of reeling to all the surrounding peoples; and when what happens in siege is upon Jerusalem, it will be upon Judah as well.
12:3 那日，我必使耶路撒冷向万民成为一块沉重的石头；凡举起的，必受重伤。地上的列国都必聚集攻击她。
And in that day I will make Jerusalem a burdensome stone to all the peoples; all who burden themselves with her will be cut up. Indeed all the nations of the
earth will be gathered against her.
12:4 耶和华说，到那日，我必击打一切马匹，使其惊惶，击打骑马的，使其癫狂；我必睁眼看顾犹大家；我必击打列国的一切马匹，使其瞎眼。
In that day, declares Jehovah, I will strike every horse with bewilderment and its rider with madness; and I will open My eyes upon the house of Judah and will
strike every horse of the peoples with blindness.
12:5 犹大的族长必心里说，耶路撒冷的居民凭着万军之耶和华他们的神，乃是我们的能力。
Then the leaders of Judah will say in their heart, The inhabitants of Jerusalem, by Jehovah of hosts their God, are my strength.
12:6 那日，我必使犹大的族长如火盆在木柴上，又如火把在禾捆里；他们必左右烧灭四围的众民。耶路撒冷人必仍住在本处，就是在耶路撒冷。
894
In that day I will make the leaders of Judah like a fire pot on wood and like a torch of fire among sheaves, and they will consume all the surrounding peoples on
the right and on the left. And Jerusalem will dwell again in her own place, in Jerusalem.
12:7 耶和华必先拯救犹大的帐棚，免得大卫家的华美，和耶路撒冷居民的华美，胜过犹大。
And Jehovah will save the tents of Judah first, so that the beauty of the house of David and the beauty of the inhabitants of Jerusalem may not be magnified
above Judah.
12:8 那日，耶和华必保护耶路撒冷的居民；他们中间软弱的，在那日必如大卫；大卫的家必如神，如行在他们前面之耶和华的使者。
In that day Jehovah will defend the inhabitants of Jerusalem; and he who is feeble among them in that day will be like David, and the house of David will be like
God, like the Angel of Jehovah before them.
12:9 那日，我必设法灭绝来攻击耶路撒冷的列国。
And in that day I will seek to destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem.
12:10 我必将恩典和恳求的灵，浇灌大 家和耶路撒冷的居民；他们必仰望我，就是他们所扎的；他们必为我哀号，如为丧独生子哀号，又为我痛哭，如
为丧长子痛哭。
And I will pour out on the house of David and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem the Spirit of grace and of supplications; and they will look upon Me, whom they
have pierced; and they will wail over Him with wailing as for an only son and cry bitterly over Him with bitter crying as for a firstborn son.
12:11 那日耶路撒冷必有大大的哀号，如米吉多平原之哈达临门的哀号。
In that day there will be great wailing in Jerusalem, like the wailing of Hadad-rimmon in the valley of Megiddon.
12:12 那地的人要一家族一家族的，独在一处哀号；大卫家的家族独在一处，他们的妇女独在一处；拿单家的家族独在一处，他们的妇女独在一处；
And the land will wail, every family by itself: the family of the house of David by itself, and their wives by themselves; the family of the house of Nathan by itself,
and their wives by themselves;
12:13 利未家的家族独在一处，他们的妇女独在一处；示每的家族独在一处，他们的妇女独在一处；
The family of the house of Levi by itself, and their wives by themselves; the family of the Shimeites by itself, and their wives by themselves;
12:14 其余的各家族，都必各自独在一处，他们的妇女独在一处。
All the families that remain, every family by itself, and their wives by themselves.
撒迦利亚书 Zechariah 第 13 章
13:1 那日，必有一泉源为大卫家和耶路撒冷的居民开启，洗除罪与污秽。
In that day there will be an opened fountain for the house of David and for the inhabitants of Jerusalem, for sin and for impurity.
13:2 万军之耶和华说，那日我必从这地除灭偶像的名，这些名必不再被人记念；我也必使这地不再有假申言者与不洁的灵。
And in that day, declares Jehovah of hosts, I will cut off the names of the idols from the land, and they will no longer be remembered; and I will also cause the
prophets and the unclean spirit to pass from the land.
13:3 若再有人说预言，生他的父母必对他说，你不得存活，因为你托耶和华的名说假话，生他的父母在他说预言的时候，要将他刺透。
And if anyone still prophesies, his father and mother, who begot him, will say to him, You shall not live, for you have spoken falsely in the name of Jehovah; and
his father and mother, who begot him, will pierce him through when he prophesies.
13:4 那日申言者说预言的时候，各人必因自己的异象羞愧；他们必不再穿毛的衣服哄骗人。
And in that day the prophets will each be ashamed of his vision when he prophesies; and they will not wear a hairy garment in order to deceive.
13:5 祂必说，我不是申言者，我是耕地的；我在幼年就给人卖了。
But He will say, I am no prophet; I am a tiller of the ground; for a man sold Me in My youth.
13:6 必有人问祂说，你两臂中的这些是什么伤呢？祂必说，那些是我在爱我的人家中所受的伤。
And someone will say to Him, What are these wounds between Your arms? And He will say, Those with which I was wounded in the house of those who love Me.
13:7 万军之耶和华说，刀剑哪，应当醒起，攻击我的牧人，和作我同伴的那人；击打牧人，羊就分散；我必反手加在微小者身上。
Awake, O sword, against My Shepherd, And against the man who is My Fellow, Declares Jehovah of hosts. Strike the Shepherd, That the sheep may be scattered;
And I will turn My hand upon the little ones.
13:8 耶和华说，这全地的人，三分之二必剪除而死，三分之一仍必存留。
And in all the land, declares Jehovah, Two parts in it will be cut off and will die, But the third part will be left in it.
13:9 我要使这三分之一经火，熬炼他们如熬炼银子，试炼他们如试炼金子。他们必呼求我的名，我必应允他们；我要说，他们是我的子民，他们也要说，
耶和华是我们的神。
And I will bring the third part through fire And refine them as silver is refined And try them as gold is tried. They will call on My name, And I will answer them; I will
say, They are My people, And they will say, Jehovah is my God.
撒迦利亚书 Zechariah 第 14 章
14:1 耶和华的日子临近；人必在你中间，分取从你掠夺之物。
Indeed a day is coming for Jehovah when the spoil taken from you will be divided among you.
14:2 因为我必聚集万国与耶路撒冷争战；城必被攻取，房屋被抢夺，妇女被玷污；城中的民必有一半被掳去，但余剩的民必不从城中剪除。
For I will gather all the nations against Jerusalem to battle; and the city will be captured, and the houses plundered, and the women ravished; and half of the city
will go forth into captivity, but the rest of the people will not be cut off from the city.
14:3 那时，耶和华必出去与那些国争战，好像在打仗的日子争战一样。
Then Jehovah will go forth and fight against those nations, as when He fights in a day of battle.
14:4 那日，祂的脚必站在耶路撒冷前面东边的橄榄山上；橄榄山必从中间分裂，自东至西成为极大的谷，山的一半向北挪移，一半向南挪移。
And His feet will stand in that day on the Mount of Olives, which is before Jerusalem on the east; and the Mount of Olives will be split at its middle toward the east
and toward the west into a very great valley, so that half of the mountain will remove to the north and half of it to the south.
14:5 你们要逃入我山的谷中，因为山谷必延到亚萨；你们必逃跑，如同在犹大王乌西雅的日子逃避地震一样。耶和华我的神必降临，有众圣者与祂同来。
895
And you will flee into the valley of My mountains, for the valley of the mountains will reach unto Azel; yes, you will flee, just as you fled before the earthquake in
the days of Uzziah the king of Judah. And Jehovah my God will come, and all the saints with Him.
14:6 那日，必没有光；众光体必退缩。
And in that day there will be no light; the shining ones will withdraw.
14:7 那种日子，惟有耶和华知道，既不是白昼，也不是黑夜；到了晚间才有光。
For it will be a kind of day known only to Jehovah, neither day nor night; but at evening time there will be light.
14:8 那日，必有活水从耶路撒冷出来，一半往东海流，一半往西海流；冬夏都是如此。
And in that day living waters will go forth from Jerusalem; half of them toward the eastern sea and half of them toward the western sea; it will be there in
summer and in winter.
14:9 耶和华必作全地的王；那日耶和华必为独一的神，祂的名也是独一的名。
And Jehovah will be King over all the earth; and in that day Jehovah will be the one God and His name the one name.
14:10 全地，从迦巴直到耶路撒冷南方的临门，要变为平原，耶路撒冷必被高举，仍居本位，就是从便雅悯门到第一门之处，又到角门，并从哈楠业楼，
直到王的酒醡。
All the land will be changed into a plain from Geba to Rimmon south of Jerusalem; and Jerusalem will be raised and will dwell in her place, from Benjamin's Gate
to the place of the First Gate to the Corner Gate, and from the Tower of Hananel to the king's winepresses.
14:11 人必住在其中，不再有咒诅；耶路撒冷人必安然居住。
And people will dwell in her, and there will be no more curse, for Jerusalem will dwell securely.
14:12 耶和华用以击打与耶路撒冷争战之众民的灾殃，必是这样：他们两脚站立的时候，肉必腐烂，眼在眶中腐烂，舌在口中腐烂。
And this will be the plague with which Jehovah will strike all the peoples who have fought against Jerusalem: Their flesh will rot while they are standing on their
feet, and their eyes will rot in their sockets, and their tongue will rot in their mouth.
14:13 那日，必有极大的惊恐从耶和华临到他们中间；他们各人必揪住自己邻舍的手，举手攻击自己的邻舍。
And in that day a great panic from Jehovah will be among them; and each will seize his neighbor's hand, and his hand will rise up against his neighbor's hand.
14:14 犹大也必在耶路撒冷争战；那时四围各国的财物，就是许多金银衣服，必被收聚。
And Judah will also fight at Jerusalem; and the wealth of all the surrounding nations will be gathered together, gold and silver and garments, in great abundance.
14:15 那临到马匹、骡子、骆驼、驴、和营中一切牲畜的灾殃，必与那灾殃一样。
And as this plague is, so will the plague be on the horse, the mule, the camel, the donkey, and all the cattle that are in those camps.
14:16 所有前来攻击耶路撒冷的列国中余剩的人，必年年上来敬拜大君王万军之耶和华，并守住棚节。
And everyone left from all the nations that went forth against Jerusalem will go up from year to year to worship the King, Jehovah of hosts, and to keep the Feast
of Tabernacles.
14:17 地上万族中，凡不上耶路撒冷敬拜大君王万军之耶和华的，必无雨降给他们。
And whichever of the families of the earth does not go up to Jerusalem to worship the King, Jehovah of hosts, upon them there will be no rain.
14:18 埃及族若不上来进入耶路撒冷，必无雨降给他们；凡不上来守住棚节的列国人，耶和华也必用这灾殃击打他们。
And if the family of Egypt does not go up and enter, there will be no rain upon them; there will be the plague with which Jehovah strikes the nations that do not
go up to keep the Feast of Tabernacles.
14:19 这就是埃及的罪，和所有不上来守住棚节之列国的罪。
This will be the sin of Egypt and the sin of all the nations that do not go up to keep the Feast of Tabernacles.
14:20 当那日，马的铃铛上必有归耶和华为圣这句话；耶和华殿内的锅必如祭坛前的盘一样。
In that day on the horses' bells will be, Holiness to Jehovah; and the pots in the house of Jehovah will be like the basins before the altar.
14:21 凡在耶路撒冷和犹大的锅，都必归万军之耶和华为圣；凡献祭的，都必来取这些锅，在锅内煮肉；当那日，在万军之耶和华的殿中必不再有迦南人。
Indeed every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah will be holiness to Jehovah of hosts; and all those who sacrifice will come and take of them and boil in them; and
there will never again be a Canaanite in the house of Jehovah of hosts in that day.
896
39. 玛拉基书 Malachi
玛拉基书 Malachi 第 1 章
1:1 耶和华藉玛拉基传给以色列之话语的默示。
The burden of the word of Jehovah to Israel through Malachi.
1:2 耶和华说，我爱了你们；你们却说，你在何事上爱了我们呢？耶和华说，以扫不是雅各的哥哥么？我却爱雅各，
I have loved you, says Jehovah; but you say, How have You loved us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother, declares Jehovah? Yet I loved Jacob;
1:3 恶以扫，使他的山岭荒凉，把他的地业交给旷野的野狗。
But Esau I hated, and I made his mountains a desolation, and gave his inheritance to the jackals of the wilderness.
1:4 以东人说，我们现在虽被击倒，却要重建荒废之处；万军之耶和华如此说，任他们建造，我必拆毁；他们必称为罪恶之境，为耶和华永远恼怒之民。
Though Edom says, We are beaten down, but we will return and build up the waste places; thus says Jehovah of hosts, They will build up, but I will throw down;
and they will be called the territory of wickedness and the people with whom Jehovah is indignant forever.
1:5 你们必亲眼看见，也必亲自说，耶和华在以色列境地之上，被尊为大。
And your eyes will see it, and you yourselves will say, Jehovah is magnified over the territory of Israel.
1:6 藐视我名的祭司阿，万军之耶和华对你们说，儿子尊敬父亲，仆人敬畏主人。我既为父亲，我该受的尊敬在那里呢？我既为主人，我该得的敬畏在那
里呢？你们却说，我们在何事上藐视你的名呢？
A son honors his father, and a servant his lord. Therefore if I am a Father, where is My honor? And if I am the Lord, where is My fear? says Jehovah of hosts to you,
O priests who despise My name. But you say, How have we despised Your name?
1:7 你们将污秽的食物献在我的坛上，且说，我们在何事上污秽你呢？你们竟说，耶和华的桌子是可藐视的。
You offer defiled food upon My altar. And you say, How have we defiled You? In that you say, The table of Jehovah is despicable.
1:8 你们将瞎眼的献为祭物，这不是恶么？将瘸腿的、有病的献上，这不是恶么？你且把这些献给你的省长。他岂喜悦你，岂能看你的情面么？这是万军
之耶和华说的。
And when you offer what is blind as a sacrifice, is it not evil? And when you offer what is lame and sick, is it not evil? Present it, if you will, to your governor. Will he
be pleased with you or accept your person? says Jehovah of hosts.
1:9 现在我劝你们恳求神的恩惠，祂好施恩与我们。这妄献的事，既是出于你们的手，祂岂能看你们的情面么？这是万军之耶和华说的。
And now, if you will, entreat the favor of God, that He may be gracious to us. This is what is from your hand. Will He accept any of your persons? says Jehovah of
hosts.
1:10 甚愿你们中间有一人关上殿门，免得你们徒然在我坛上烧火！万军之耶和华说，我不喜悦你们，也不从你们手中收纳供物。
Oh, that there were even someone among you who would shut the doors so that you would not kindle fire on My altar in vain! I have no delight in you, says
Jehovah of hosts; and I am not pleased with the sacrifice from your hand.
1:11 万军之耶和华说，从日出之地到日落之处，我的名在列国中必尊为大。在各处，人必向我的名烧香，献洁净的供物；因为我的名在列国中必尊为大。
For from the rising of the sun even unto its setting My name will be great among the nations. And in every place incense will be offered to My name as well as a
pure sacrifice, for My name will be great among the nations, says Jehovah of hosts.
1:12 你们却亵渎我的名，说，耶和华的桌子是污秽的，其上的食物是可藐视的。
But you profane it by saying, The table of the Lord is defiled, and the produce on it, its food, is despicable.
1:13 你们又说，这些事何等烦琐！并嗤之以鼻。这是万军之耶和华说的。你们把抢来的、瘸腿的、有病的，拿来献上为供物；我岂能从你们手中收纳这些
呢？这是耶和华说的。
And you say, Ah, how tiresome it is! and sniff at it in contempt, says Jehovah of hosts. Then you bring what has been stolen and what is lame and what is sick,
and you offer it as a sacrifice. Should I be pleased with what comes from your hand? says Jehovah.
1:14 行诡诈的在群中有公羊，他许愿却用有残疾的献给主，这人是可咒诅的；因为我是大君王，我的名在列国中是可畏的；这是万军之耶和华说的。
Rather, cursed be the deceiver who has in his flock a male, and when he makes a vow, he offers what is blemished to the Lord; for I am a great King, says
Jehovah of hosts, and My name is feared among the nations.
玛拉基书 Malachi 第 2 章
2:1 众祭司阿，现今这诫命是给你们的。
And now this commandment is for you, O priests.
2:2 万军之耶和华说，你们若不听从，也不放在心上，将荣耀归与我的名，我就要差咒诅到你们中间，咒诅你们的福分；因你们不把诫命放在心上，我已
经咒诅这些福分了。
If you will not hear and take it to heart to give glory to My name, says Jehovah of hosts, I will send the curse among you, and I will curse your blessings; indeed I
have cursed them already because you have not taken it to heart.
2:3 我必斥责你们的种子，又把粪，就是你们节期祭牲的粪，泼在你们的脸上；人要把你们与粪一同除掉。
I will rebuke your seed and spread dung upon your faces, the dung of your feasts; and they will take you away with it.
2:4 你们就知道我传这诫命给你们，使我与利未所立的约，可以常存；这是万军之耶和华说的。
And you will know that I have sent this commandment to you, that My covenant may remain with Levi, says Jehovah of hosts.
2:5 我曾与他立生命和平安的约；我将这两样赐给他，使他心存敬畏；他就敬畏我，惧怕我的名。
My covenant was with him as life and peace; and I gave these to him that he might fear; and he did fear Me, and he did stand in awe of My name.
2:6 真理的律法在他口中，他嘴里没有不义；他在平安和正直里与我同行，使多人回头离开罪孽。
The law of truth was in his mouth, and no wrong was found in his lips; in peace and uprightness he walked with Me, and he turned many away from iniquity.
2:7 祭司的嘴当谨守知识，人也当由他口中寻求训诲，因为他是万军之耶和华的使者。
For the priest's lips should keep knowledge, and men should seek instruction from his mouth, for he is the mes- senger of Jehovah of hosts.
2:8 你们却偏离正道，使许多人在律法上跌倒；你们废弃我与利未所立的约；这是万军之耶和华说的。
But you have turned away from the way; you have caused many to stumble at the law; you have corrupted the covenant of Levi, says Jehovah of hosts.
2:9 所以我也使你们在众人面前被藐视，看为下贱，因你们不遵行我的道路，竟在律法上偏袒人。
897
Therefore I also have made you despicable and base before all the people to the same extent that you have not kept My ways but have been respecters of
persons in the law.
2:10 我们岂不都有一位父么？岂不是一位神所造的么？我们各人怎么以诡诈待弟兄，渎犯了神与我们列祖所立的约呢？
Have we not all one Father? Has not one God created us? Why are we treacherous, each one to his brother, thus profaning the covenant of our fathers?
2:11 犹大人行事诡诈，并且在以色列和耶路撒冷中，行了一件可憎的事；因为犹大人亵渎耶和华所爱的圣所，娶事奉外邦神的女子为妻。
Judah has been treacherous, and an abomination has been done in Israel and in Jerusalem; for Judah has profaned the sanctuary of Jehovah, which He loves,
and has married the daughter of a foreign god.
2:12 凡行这事的，无论是叫醒的、答应的、或是献供物给万军之耶和华的，耶和华也必从雅各的帐棚中剪除他。
As regards the man who does this, Jehovah will cut off from the tents of Jacob him who wakes and him who answers and him who offers a sacrifice to Jehovah
of hosts.
2:13 你们又行了一件这样的事，使眼泪，使哭泣和叹息遮盖耶和华的祭坛，以致耶和华不再垂看那供物，也不乐意从你们手中收纳。
And this second thing you do: You cover the altar of Jehovah with tears, with weeping and sighing, so that He no longer regards the sacrifice or receives it with
pleasure from your hand.
2:14 你们还说，这是为什么呢？因耶和华在你和你幼年所娶的妻子中间作证人；她虽是你的伴侣，又是你盟约的妻子，你却以诡诈待她。
Yet you say, For what reason? Because Jehovah has been the witness between you and the wife of your youth, to whom you have been treacherous; yet she is
your companion and your wife of covenant.
2:15 然而神岂不是使二人成为一么？祂灵的余裔是属祂的。为何成为一呢？乃是要得着属神的后裔。所以当谨守你们的灵，谁也不可以诡诈待自己幼年所
娶的妻子。
But did He not make them one? And the remnant of the Spirit was His. And why the one? He sought the seed of God. Take heed then to your spirit, and let no one
be treacherous to the wife of his youth.
2:16 耶和华以色列的神说，休妻是我所恨恶的，休妻的人是以强暴行事；所以当谨守你们的灵，不可行诡诈；这是万军之耶和华说的。
For I hate divorce, says Jehovah the God of Israel; and he who does it behaves in violence, says Jehovah of hosts. Take heed then to your spirit, and do not be
treacherous.
2:17 你们用言语使耶和华厌烦；你们还说，我们在何事上使祂厌烦呢？因为你们说，凡行恶的，耶和华眼看为善，并且祂喜悦他们；或说，公平的神在那
里呢？
You have wearied Jehovah with your words; but you say, How have we wearied Him? By saying, Everyone who does evil is good in the sight of Jehovah, and He
delights in them; or, Where is the God of justice?
玛拉基书 Malachi 第 3 章
3:1 万军之耶和华说，我要差遣我的使者，在我前面预备道路；你们所寻求的主，必忽然来到祂的殿；立约的使者，就是你们所羡慕的，快要来到。
I am about to send My messenger, and he will clear the way before Me; and suddenly the Lord, whom you seek, will come to His temple. And the Angel of the
covenant, whom you desire, He will come, says Jehovah of hosts.
3:2 祂来的日子，谁能当得起呢？祂显现的时候，谁能立得住呢？因为祂如炼金之人的火，如漂布之人的碱。
And who will endure the day of His coming? And who will stand when He appears? For He is like a refiner's fire and like fullers' soap.
3:3 祂必坐下如炼净银子的，必洁净利未人，熬炼他们像金银一样，他们就必在公义中献供物给耶和华。
And He will sit as a refiner and a purifier of silver, and He will purify the sons of Levi and purge them like gold and like silver, and they will offer to Jehovah a
sacrifice in righteousness.
3:4 那时，犹大和耶路撒冷所献的供物，必蒙耶和华悦纳，仿佛古时之日，往昔之年。
And the sacrifice of Judah and of Jerusalem will be pleasing to Jehovah, as in the days of old and as in the former years.
3:5 万军之耶和华说，我必临近你们，施行审判；我必速速作见证，攻击行邪术的、犯奸淫的、起假誓的、亏负雇工之工价的、欺压寡妇孤儿的、屈枉寄
居的、和不敬畏我的。
And I will draw near to you for judgment; and I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers and against the adulterers and against those who swear falsely and
against those who oppress the hired worker for his hire, and the widow and the orphan, and those who turn the stranger aside, and who do not fear Me, says
Jehovah of hosts.
3:6 因我耶和华是不改变的；所以雅各的子孙哪，你们没有灭亡。
For I, Jehovah, do not change; therefore you, O sons of Jacob, are not consumed.
3:7 万军之耶和华说，从你们列祖的日子以来，你们常常偏离我的律例而不遵守。现在你们要转向我，我就转向你们；你们却问说，我们如何转向呢？
From the days of your fathers you have turned aside from My statutes and have not kept them. Return to Me, and I will return to you, says Jehovah of hosts. but
you say, How shall we return?
3:8 人岂可夺取神之物呢？你们竟夺取我的物，你们却说，我们在何事上夺取你的物呢？你们夺取了当纳的十分之一，和当献的供物。
Will a man rob God? Yet you have robbed Me. But you say, How have we robbed You? In tithes and offerings.
3:9 你们为咒诅所咒诅，但你们通国的人，仍夺取我的物。
With the curse you are cursed, yet you, even the whole nation, rob Me.
3:10 万军之耶和华说，你们要将当纳的十分之一，全然送入仓库，使我家有粮，以此试试我，是否为你们敞开天上的窗户，倾福与你们，甚至无处可容。
Bring the whole tithe to the storehouse that there may be food in My house; and prove Me, if you will, by this, says Jehovah of hosts, whether I will open to you
the windows of heaven and pour out blessing for you until there is no room for it.
3:11 万军之耶和华说，我必为你们斥责那吞吃者，他就不毁坏你们地的出产；你们田间的葡萄树在未熟之先，也不掉果子。
And I will rebuke the devourer for your sake, and for your sake he will not destroy the fruit of the ground; and for your sake the vine will not lose its fruit in the field,
says Jehovah of hosts.
3:12 万军之耶和华说，万国必称你们为有福的，因你们的地必成为喜乐之地。
And all the nations will call you blessed, for you will be a land of delight, says Jehovah of hosts.
3:13 耶和华说，你们用话语顶撞我；你们还说，我们用什么话顶撞了你呢？
Your words have been strongly against Me, says Jehovah; but you say, What have we spoken against You?
3:14 你们说，事奉神是徒然的；遵守神所吩咐的，在万军之耶和华面前哀痛而行，有什么益处呢？
898
You say, It is vain to serve God; and what profit is it that we have kept His charge and have walked mournfully before Jehovah of hosts?
3:15 如今我们称狂傲的人为有福；行恶的人非但得建立，并且虽然试探神，却得以逃罪。
And now we call the arrogant blessed; not only have those who act wickedly been built up, but they also try God and escape.
3:16 那时，敬畏耶和华的彼此谈论；耶和华侧耳而听，且有记念册在祂面前，记录那些敬畏耶和华并留意祂名的人。
Then those who feared Jehovah spoke to one another, each with his neighbor. And Jehovah gave heed and listened, and a book of remembrance was written
before Him of those who feared Jehovah and considered His name.
3:17 万军之耶和华说，在我所预备的日子，他们必属我，作我自己的珍宝；我必顾惜他们，如同人顾惜那服事自己的儿子。
And they will be Mine, says Jehovah of hosts, a personal treasure, in the day that I prepare; and I will spare them, as a man spares his son who serves him.
3:18 那时你们必归回，将义人和恶人，事奉神和不事奉神的人，分别出来。
And you will return and discern between him who is righteous and him who is wicked, between him who serves God and him who does not serve Him.
玛拉基书 Malachi 第 4 章
4:1 万军之耶和华说，那日子来到，如烧 的火炉；凡狂傲的和行恶的，必如碎秸；那要来之日必将他们烧尽，不给他们留下根和枝条。
For indeed the day comes, burning like a furnace, and all the proud ones and all the ones who act wickedly will be stubble; and the coming day will set them
ablaze, says Jehovah of hosts, so that it will not leave them root or branch.
4:2 但向你们敬畏我名的人，必有公义的日头升起，其翅膀有医治之能；你们必如圈里的肥牛犊出来跳跃。
But unto you who fear My name will the Sun of righteousness arise with healing in His wings, and you will go forth and leap about like well-fed calves.
4:3 你们必践踏恶人；因为在我所预备的日子，他们必如灰尘在你们脚掌之下；这是万军之耶和华说的。
And you will trample the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet in the day that I prepare, says Jehovah of hosts.
4:4 你们当记念我仆人摩西的律法，就是我在何烈山为以色列众人所吩咐他的律例和典章。
Remember the law of Moses My servant, which I commanded him in Horeb for all Israel, that is, the statutes and the ordinances.
4:5 看哪，耶和华大而可畏之日未到以前，我必差遣申言者以利亚到你们那里去。
I am about to send Elijah the prophet to you before the great and terrible day of Jehovah comes;
4:6 他必使父亲的心转向儿女，儿女的心转向父亲，免得我来，用咒诅击打这地。
And he will turn the heart of the fathers to the children and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the land with a curse.
899
40. 马太福音 Matthew
马太福音 Matthew 第 1 章
1:1 耶稣基督，大卫的子孙，亚伯拉罕子孙的家谱：
The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham:
1:2 亚伯拉罕生以撒，以撒生雅各，雅各生犹大和他的弟兄们，
Abraham begot Isaac, and Isaac begot Jacob, and Jacob begot Judah and his brothers,
1:3 犹大从他玛氏生法勒斯和谢拉，法勒斯生希斯仑，希斯仑生亚兰，
And Judah begot Pharez and Zarah of Tamar, and Pharez begot Hezron, and Hezron begot Aram,
1:4 亚兰生亚米拿达，亚米拿达生拿顺，拿顺生撒门，
And Aram begot Aminadab, and Aminadab begot Nahshon, and Nahshon begot Salmon,
1:5 撒门从喇合氏生波阿斯，波阿斯从路得氏生俄备得，俄备得生耶西，
And Salmon begot Boaz of Rahab, and Boaz begot Obed of Ruth, and Obed begot Jesse,
1:6 耶西生大卫王。大卫从作过乌利亚妻子的生所罗门，
And Jesse begot David the king. And David begot Solomon of her who had been the wife of Uriah,
1:7 所罗门生罗波安，罗波安生亚比雅，亚比雅生亚撒，
And Solomon begot Rehoboam, and Rehoboam begot Abijah, and Abijah begot Asa,
1:8 亚撒生约沙法，约沙法生约兰，约兰生乌西亚，
And Asa begot Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat begot Joram, and Joram begot Uzziah,
1:9 乌西亚生约坦，约坦生亚哈斯，亚哈斯生希西家，
And Uzziah begot Jotham, and Jotham begot Ahaz, and Ahaz begot Hezekiah,
1:10 希西家生玛拿西，玛拿西生亚们，亚们生约西亚。
And Hezekiah begot Manasseh, and Manasseh begot Amon, and Amon begot Josiah.
1:11 在迁徙巴比伦的时候，约西亚生耶哥尼雅和他的弟兄们。
And Josiah begot Jeconiah and his brothers at the time of the deportation to Babylon.
1:12 迁徙到巴比伦以后，耶哥尼雅生撒拉铁，撒拉铁生所罗巴伯，
And after the deportation to Babylon, Jeconiah begot Salathiel, and Salathiel begot Zerubbabel,
1:13 所罗巴伯生亚比玉，亚比玉生以利亚敬，以利亚敬生亚所，
And Zerubbabel begot Abiud, and Abiud begot Eliakim, and Eliakim begot Azor,
1:14 亚所生撒督，撒督生亚金，亚金生以律，
And Azor begot Zadok, and Zadok begot Achim, and Achim begot Eliud,
1:15 以律生以利亚撒，以利亚撒生马但，马但生雅各，
And Eliud begot Eleazar, and Eleazar begot Matthan, and Matthan begot Jacob,
1:16 雅各生约瑟，就是马利亚的丈夫，那称为基督的耶稣，是从马利亚生的。
And Jacob begot Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ.
1:17 这样，从亚伯拉罕到大卫，共十四代；从大卫到迁徙巴比伦，也是十四代；从迁徙巴比伦到基督，又是十四代。
Thus all the generations from Abraham until David are fourteen generations, and from David until the deportation to Babylon, fourteen generations, and from the
deportation to Babylon until the Christ, fourteen generations.
1:18 耶稣基督的由来，乃是这样：祂母亲马利亚已经许配了约瑟，他们还没有同居，马利亚就被看出怀了孕，就是她从圣灵所怀的。
Now the origin of Jesus Christ was in this way: His mother, Mary, after she had been engaged to Joseph, before they came together, was found to be with child
of the Holy Spirit.
1:19 她丈夫约瑟是个义人，不愿明明的羞辱她，想要暗暗的把她退了。
And Joseph her husband, being righteous and not willing to disgrace her openly, intended to send her away secretly.
1:20 正思念这事的时候，看哪，有主的使者向他梦中显现，说，大卫的子孙约瑟，不要怕，只管娶过你的妻子马利亚来，因那生在她里面的，乃是出于圣
灵。
But while he pondered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary your
wife, for that which has been begotten in her is of the Holy Spirit.
1:21 她将要生一个儿子，你要给祂起名叫耶稣，因祂要亲自将祂的百姓从他们的罪里救出来。
And she will bear a son, and you shall call His name Jesus, for it is He who will save His people from their sins.
1:22 这一切成就了，为要应验主借着申言者所说的，说，
Now all this has happened so that what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet might be fulfilled, saying,
1:23 “看哪，必有童女怀孕生子，人要称祂的名为以马内利。”（以马内利翻出来，就是神与我们同在。）
"Behold, the virgin shall be with child and shall bear a son, and they shall call His name Emmanuel'' (which is translated, God with us).
1:24 约瑟从睡中醒来，就遵着主使者的吩咐，把他的妻子娶过来，
And when Joseph awoke from his sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him and took to himself his wife.
1:25 只是没有和她同房，等她生了儿子，就给祂起名叫耶稣。
And he did not know her until she bore a son. And he called His name Jesus.
马太福音 Matthew 第 2 章
2:1 在希律王的日子，耶稣生在犹太的伯利恒。看哪，有星象家从东方来到耶路撒冷，说，
Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, magi from the east arrived in Jerusalem,
2:2 那生为犹太人之王的在那里？因为祂的星出现的时候，我们看见了，就前来拜祂。
Saying, Where is He who has been born King of the Jews? For we saw His star at its rising and have come to worship Him.
900
2:3 希律王听见了，就惊慌不安，全耶路撒冷也同他一样。
And when Herod the king heard this, he was troubled and all Jerusalem with him.
2:4 他就召集了所有的祭司长和民间的经学家，向他们查问，基督当生在何处。
And gathering together all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born.
2:5 他们对他说，在犹太的伯利恒，因为借着申言者所记的是这样：
And they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written through the prophet:
2:6 “犹大地的伯利恒阿！你在犹大的首领中，绝不是最小的，因为有一位掌权者要从你出来，牧养我民以色列。”
"And you, Bethlehem, land of Judah, by no means are you the least among the princes of Judah; for out of you shall come forth a Ruler, One who will shepherd
My people Israel.''
2:7 当下，希律王暗暗的召了星象家来，向他们确查那星出现的时间，
Then Herod, secretly calling the magi, determined accurately from them the time that the star appeared.
2:8 就差他们往伯利恒去，说，你们去详确的搜寻那孩子，寻到了，就报告我，我也好去拜祂。
And sending them to Bethlehem, he said, Go and find out accurately about the child. And when you find Him, report to me, so that I also may come and worship
Him.
2:9 他们听了王的话，就去了。看哪，他们曾看见它出现的那星，在他们前头领路，直领到那孩子那里，就在上头停住了。
And after they heard the king, they went their way, and behold, the star which they saw at its rising led them until it came and stood over the place where the
child was.
2:10 他们看见那星，就极其欢乐。
And when they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy.
2:11 进了屋子，看见那孩子和祂母亲马利亚，就俯伏拜祂，揭开宝盒，向祂献上黄金、乳香和没药为礼物。
And they came into the house and saw the child with Mary His mother. And falling down, they worshipped Him; and opening their treasures, they offered gifts to
Him, gold and frankincense and myrrh.
2:12 星象家既在梦中受神指示，不要回去见希律，就从别的路回本地去了。
And because they had been divinely instructed in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed by another way to their country.
2:13 他们离开以后，看哪，有主的使者向约瑟梦中显现，说，起来，带着孩子和祂母亲逃往埃及，留在那里，等我吩咐你，因为希律要寻找孩子，好除灭
祂。
Now when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph, saying, Arise, take the child and His mother and flee into Egypt, and
stay there until I tell you; for Herod is going to seek the child to destroy Him.
2:14 约瑟就起来，趁夜带着孩子和祂母亲往埃及去，
And he arose and took the child and His mother by night and departed into Egypt,
2:15 留在那里，直到希律死了。这是要应验主借着申言者所说的，说，“我从埃及召出我的儿子来。”
And was there until the death of Herod, in order that what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet might be fulfilled, saying, "Out of Egypt I called My Son.''
2:16 希律见自己为星象家所愚弄，就极其恼怒，差人将伯利恒城里，并四境所有的男孩，照着他从星象家所确查的时间，凡两岁以内的尽都除掉了。
Then Herod, seeing that he had been mocked by the magi, became greatly enraged, and sending out men, he did away with all the boys who were in
Bethlehem and in all its borders from two years old and under, according to the time that he had accurately determined from the magi.
2:17 这就应验了那借着申言者耶利米所说的，说，
At that time what was spoken through Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled, saying,
2:18 “在拉玛听见号啕大哭的声音，是拉结哭她的儿女，不肯受安慰，因为他们都不在了。”
"A voice in Ramah was heard, weeping and great lamentation: Rachel weeping for her children, and she would not be comforted, because they are no more.''
2:19 希律死了以后，看哪，有主的使者在埃及向约瑟梦中显现，说，
And when Herod had died, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt,
2:20 起来，带着孩子和祂母亲往以色列地去，因为寻索孩子性命的人已经死了。
Saying, Arise, take the child and His mother and go into the land of Israel, for those who seek the life of the child have died.
2:21 约瑟就起来，带着孩子和祂母亲进入以色列地。
And he arose and took the child and His mother and entered into the land of Israel.
2:22 只因听见亚基老接替他父亲希律作了犹太王，就怕往那里去；又在梦中受到神的指示，就往加利利境内去了。
But because he heard that Archelaus was reigning over Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there; and having been divinely instructed in a
dream, he departed into the regions of Galilee.
2:23 到了一座城，名叫拿撒勒，就定居在那里。这是要应验那借着众申言者所说的，祂必称为拿撒勒人。
And he came and settled in a city called Nazareth, so that what was spoken through the prophets might be fulfilled, He shall be called a Nazarene.
马太福音 Matthew 第 3 章
3:1 那时，施浸者约翰出来，在犹太的旷野传道说，
Now in those days John the Baptist appeared, preaching in the wilderness of Judea
3:2 你们要悔改，因为诸天的国已经临近了。
And saying, Repent, for the kingdom of the heavens has drawn near.
3:3 这人就是那借着申言者以赛亚所说的，说，“在旷野有人声喊着：预备主的道路，修直祂的途径。”
For this is he who was spoken of through Isaiah the prophet, saying, "A voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord; make straight His
paths.''
3:4 约翰身穿骆驼毛的衣服，腰束皮带，吃的是蝗虫野蜜。
Now this John had his garment of camel's hair and a leather girdle around his loins, and his food was locusts and wild honey.
3:5 那时，耶路撒冷和犹太全地，并约但河四周全境的人，都络绎的出去到约翰那里，
At that time Jerusalem and all Judea and all the surrounding region of the Jordan went out to him,
3:6 承认着他们的罪，在约但河里受他的浸。
901
And they were baptized by him in the Jordan River as they confessed their sins.
3:7 约翰看见许多法利赛人和撒都该人，来受他的浸，就对他们说，毒蛇之种，谁指示你们逃避要来的忿怒？
But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them, Offspring of vipers, who prompted you to flee from the coming
wrath?
3:8 你们要结出果子，与悔改相称。
Produce then fruit worthy of your repentance.
3:9 不要自己心里想着说，我们有亚伯拉罕作我们的祖宗。我告诉你们，神能从这些石头中给亚伯拉罕兴起子孙来。
And do not presume to say within yourselves, We have Abraham as our father; for I tell you that God is able, out of these stones, to raise up children to Abraham.
3:10 现在斧头已经放在树根上，凡不结好果子的树，就砍下来，丢在火里。
And already the axe is laid at the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not produce good fruit is cut down and cast into the fire.
3:11 我是将你们浸在水里，叫你们悔改；但那在我以后来的，能力比我更大，我就是给祂提鞋也不配，祂要将你们浸在圣灵与火里。
I baptize you in water unto repentance, but He who is coming after me is stronger than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He Himself will baptize you in
the Holy Spirit and fire,
3:12 祂手里拿着扬场的簸箕，要扬净祂的禾场，把祂的麦子收在仓里，把糠秕用不灭的火烧尽了。
Whose winnowing fan is in His hand. And He will thoroughly cleanse His threshing floor and will gather His wheat into His barn, but the chaff He will burn up with
unquenchable fire.
3:13 当下，耶稣从加利利出来，到约但河约翰那里，要受他的浸。
Then Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan to John to be baptized by him.
3:14 约翰想要拦住祂，说，我当受你的浸，你反到我这里来么？
But John tried to prevent Him, saying, It is I who have need of being baptized by You, and You come to me?
3:15 耶稣回答说，你暂且容许我吧，因为我们理当这样尽全般的义。于是约翰容许了祂。
But Jesus answered and said to him, Permit it for now, for it is fitting for us in this way to fulfill all righteousness. Then he permitted Him.
3:16 耶稣受了浸，随即从水里上来，看哪，诸天向祂开了，祂就看见神的灵，仿佛鸽子降下，落在祂身上。
And having been baptized, Jesus went up immediately from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to Him, and He saw the Spirit of God descending
like a dove and coming upon Him.
3:17 看哪，又有声音从诸天之上出来，说，这是我的爱子，我所喜悦的。
And behold, a voice out of the heavens, saying, This is My Son, the Beloved, in whom I have found My delight.
马太福音 Matthew 第 4 章
4:1 随后，耶稣被那灵引到旷野，受魔鬼的试诱。
Then Jesus was led up into the wilderness by the Spirit to be tempted by the devil.
4:2 祂禁食了四十昼四十夜，后来就饿了。
And when He had fasted forty days and forty nights, afterward He became hungry.
4:3 那试诱者进前来，对祂说，你若是神的儿子，就叫这些石头变成饼吧。
And the tempter came and said to Him, If You are the Son of God, speak that these stones may become loaves of bread.
4:4 耶稣却回答说，经上记着，“人活着不是单靠食物，乃是靠神口里所出的一切话。”
But He answered and said, It is written, "Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every word that proceeds out through the mouth of God.''
4:5 而后魔鬼带祂进了圣城，叫祂站在殿翼上，
Then the devil took Him into the holy city and set Him on the wing of the temple,
4:6 对祂说，你若是神的儿子，就跳下去吧；因为经上记着，“主要为你吩咐祂的使者，用手托着你，免得你的脚碰在石头上。”
And said to Him, If You are the Son of God, cast Yourself down; for it is written, "To His angels He shall give charge concerning You, and on their hands they shall
bear You up, lest You strike Your foot against a stone.''
4:7 耶稣对他说，经上又记着，“不可试探主你的神。”
Jesus said to him, Again, it is written, "You shall not test the Lord your God.''
4:8 魔鬼又带祂上到一座极高的山，将世上的万国，和万国的荣耀，都指给祂看，
Again, the devil took Him to a very high mountain and showed Him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory.
4:9 对祂说，你若俯伏拜我，我就把这一切都给你。
And he said to Him, All these will I give You if You will fall down and worship me.
4:10 耶稣说，撒但，退去吧！因为经上记着，“当拜主你的神，单要事奉祂。”
Then Jesus said to him, Go away, Satan! For it is written, "You shall worship the Lord your God, and Him only shall you serve.''
4:11 于是魔鬼离开了耶稣，看哪，有天使进前来服事祂。
Then the devil left Him, and behold, angels came and ministered to Him.
4:12 耶稣听见约翰下了监，就退到加利利去；
Now when He heard that John was delivered up, He withdrew into Galilee.
4:13 又离开拿撒勒，来住在西布伦和拿弗他利境内，靠海的迦百农。
And leaving Nazareth, He came and dwelt in Capernaum, which is beside the sea in the borders of Zebulun and Naphtali,
4:14 这是要应验那借着申言者以赛亚所说的，说，
In order that what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, saying,
4:15 “西布伦地和拿弗他利地，沿海的路，约但河外，外邦人的加利利：
"Land of Zebulun and land of Naphtali, the way to the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles:
4:16 那坐在黑暗中的百姓，看见了大光；并且向那些坐在死亡的境域和阴影中的人，有光出现，照着他们。”
The people sitting in darkness have seen a great light; and to those sitting in the region and shadow of death, to them light has risen.''
4:17 从那时候，耶稣开始传道，说，你们要悔改，因为诸天的国已经临近了。
From that time Jesus began to proclaim and to say, Repent, for the kingdom of the heavens has drawn near.
902
4:18 耶稣在加利利海边行走，看见两个兄弟，就是那称呼彼得的西门，和他的兄弟安得烈，向海里撒网；他们本是渔夫。
And while He was walking beside the Sea of Galilee, He saw two brothers, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they
were fishermen.
4:19 耶稣对他们说，来跟从我，我要使你们作得人的渔夫。
And He said to them, Come after Me, and I will make you fishers of men.
4:20 他们就立刻撇下网，跟从了祂。
And immediately leaving the nets, they followed Him.
4:21 祂从那里往前走，看见另外两个兄弟，就是西庇太的儿子雅各和他的兄弟约翰，正同他们的父亲西庇太在船上补网，祂就呼召他们。
And going on from there, He saw another two brothers, James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their
nets; and He called them.
4:22 他们立刻撇下船和他们的父亲，跟从了祂。
And immediately leaving the boat and their father, they followed Him.
4:23 耶稣走遍加利利，在他们的会堂里施教，传扬国度的福音，医治百姓各样的疾病，和各种的症候。
And Jesus went about in all of Galilee, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every sickness
among the people.
4:24 祂的名声就传遍了叙利亚；那里的人把一切患病的，就是为各样疾病和疼痛所困迫的，以及鬼附的、癫痫的和瘫痪的，都带到祂那里，祂就治好了他
们。
And the report concerning Him went out into all of Syria; and they brought to Him all who were ill, those afflicted with various diseases and torments and those
possessed by demons and epileptics and paralytics; and He healed them.
4:25 并且有好多群众从加利利、低加波利、耶路撒冷、犹太和约但河外，来跟着祂。
And great crowds followed Him from Galilee and Decapolis and Jerusalem and Judea and from beyond the Jordan.
马太福音 Matthew 第 5 章
5:1 但祂看见这些群众，就上了山；既已坐下，门徒到祂跟前来。
And when He saw the crowds, He went up to the mountain. And after He sat down, His disciples came to Him.
5:2 祂就开口教训他们说，
And opening His mouth, He taught them, saying,
5:3 灵里贫穷的人有福了，因为诸天的国是他们的。
Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of the heavens.
5:4 哀恸的人有福了，因为他们必得安慰。
Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.
5:5 温柔的人有福了，因为他们必承受地土。
Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth.
5:6 饥渴慕义的人有福了，因为他们必得饱足。
Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied.
5:7 怜悯人的人有福了，因为他们必蒙怜悯。
Blessed are the merciful, for they shall be shown mercy.
5:8 清心的人有福了，因为他们必看见神。
Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God.
5:9 制造和平的人有福了，因为他们必称为神的儿子。
Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the sons of God.
5:10 为义受逼迫的人有福了，因为诸天的国是他们的。
Blessed are those who are persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of the heavens.
5:11 人若因我的缘故，辱骂你们，逼迫你们，捏造各样坏话毁谤你们，你们就有福了。
Blessed are you when they reproach and persecute you, and while speaking lies, say every evil thing against you because of Me.
5:12 应当喜乐欢腾，因为你们在诸天之上的赏赐是大的；原来在你们以前的申言者，人也是这样逼迫他们。
Rejoice and exult, for your reward is great in the heavens; for so they persecuted the prophets who were before you.
5:13 你们是地上的盐；盐若失了味，可用什么叫它再咸？既无任何用处，只好丢在外面，任人践踏了。
You are the salt of the earth. But if the salt has become tasteless, with what shall it be salted? It is no longer good for anything except to be cast out and trampled
underfoot by men.
5:14 你们是世上的光。城立在山上，是不能隐藏的。
You are the light of the world. It is impossible for a city situated upon a mountain to be hidden.
5:15 人点灯，也不放在斗底下，乃是放在灯台上，就照亮所有在家里的人。
Nor do men light a lamp and place it under the bushel, but on the lampstand; and it shines to all who are in the house.
5:16 你们的光也当这样照在人前，叫他们看见你们的好行为，就荣耀你们在诸天之上的父。
In the same way, let your light shine before men, so that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in the heavens.
5:17 不要以为我来是要废除律法或申言者；我来不是要废除，乃是要成全。
Do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets; I have not come to abolish, but to fulfill.
5:18 我实在告诉你们，即使到天地都过去了，律法的一撇或一画，也绝不能过去，直到一切都得成全。
For truly I say to you, Until heaven and earth pass away, one iota or one serif shall by no means pass away from the law until all come to pass.
5:19 所以无论谁废掉这些诫命中最小的一条，又这样教训人，他在诸天的国里必称为最小的；但无论谁遵行这些诫命，又这样教训人，这人在诸天的国里
必称为大的。
Therefore whoever annuls one of the least of these commandments, and teaches men so, shall be called the least in the kingdom of the heavens; but whoever
practices and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of the heavens.
903
5:20 我告诉你们，你们的义，若不超过经学家和法利赛人的义，绝不能进诸天的国。
For I say to you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you shall by no means enter into the kingdom of the heavens.
5:21 你们听见有对古人说的话：“不可杀人；凡杀人的，难逃审判。”
You have heard that it was said to the ancients, "You shall not murder, and whoever murders shall be liable to the judgment.''
5:22 但是我告诉你们，凡向弟兄动怒的，难逃审判。凡骂弟兄拉加的，难逃议会的审判；凡骂弟兄魔利的，难逃火坑的火。
But I say to you that every one who is angry with his brother shall be liable to the judgment. And whoever says to his brother, Raca, shall be liable to the judgment
of the Sanhedrin; and whoever says, Moreh, shall be liable to the Gehenna of fire.
5:23 所以你在祭坛前献礼物，若想起你的弟兄向你怀怨，
Therefore if you are offering your gift at the altar and there you remember that your brother has something against you,
5:24 就要把礼物留在坛前，先去与你的弟兄和好，然后来献礼物。
Leave your gift there before the altar, and first go and be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift.
5:25 你同告你的对头还在路上，要赶紧与他和息，免得他把你交给审判官，审判官交给差役，你就下在监里了。
Be well disposed quickly toward your opponent at law, while you are with him on the way, lest the opponent deliver you to the judge, and the judge to the officer,
and you be thrown into prison.
5:26 我实在告诉你，非到你还清最后一分钱，你绝不能从那里出来。
Truly I say to you, You shall by no means come out from there until you pay the last quadrans.
5:27 你们听见有话说，“不可奸淫。”
You have heard that it was said, "You shall not commit adultery.''
5:28 但是我告诉你们，凡看妇女，有意贪恋她的，心里已经与她犯奸淫了。
But I say to you that every one who looks at a woman in order to lust after her has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
5:29 若是你的右眼叫你绊跌，就剜出来丢掉；因为你肢体中的一个丧失了，强于你全身扔在火坑里。
So if your right eye stumbles you, pluck it out and cast it from you; for it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be
cast into Gehenna.
5:30 若是你的右手叫你绊跌，就砍下来丢掉；因为你肢体中的一个丧失了，强于你全身往火坑里去。
And if your right hand stumbles you, cut it off and cast it from you, for it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to
pass away into Gehenna.
5:31 又有话说，人若休妻，就当给她休书。
And it was said, Whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce.
5:32 但是我告诉你们，凡休妻的，若不是为淫乱的缘故，就是叫她犯奸淫了；无论谁娶这被休的妇人，也是犯奸淫了。
But I say to you that every one who divorces his wife, except for the cause of fornication, causes her to commit adultery, and whoever marries her who has been
divorced commits adultery.
5:33 你们又听见有对古人说的话：“不可背誓，所起的誓，总要向主谨守。”
Again, you have heard that it was said to the ancients, "You shall not break an oath, but you shall render to the Lord your oaths.''
5:34 但是我告诉你们，什么誓都不可起，不可指着天起誓，因为天是神的座位；
But I tell you not to swear at all; neither by heaven, because it is the throne of God;
5:35 不可指着地起誓，因为地是祂的脚凳；不可指着耶路撒冷起誓，因为耶路撒冷是大君王的城；
Nor by the earth, because it is the footstool of His feet; nor unto Jerusalem, because it is the city of the great King;
5:36 也不可指着你的头起誓，因为你不能使一根头发变白或变黑。
Neither shall you swear by your head, because you cannot make one hair white or black.
5:37 你们的话，是，就说是，不是，就说不是；若再多说，就是出于那恶者。
But let your word be, Yes, yes; No, no; for anything more than these is of the evil one.
5:38 你们听见有话说，“以眼还眼，以牙还牙。”
You have heard that it was said, "An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.''
5:39 但是我告诉你们，不要抗拒恶人；反而无论谁打你的右脸，连另一面也转给他。
But I tell you not to resist him who is evil; rather whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn to him the other also.
5:40 那想要告你，要拿你里衣的，连外衣也让给他；
And to him who wishes to sue you and take your tunic, yield to him your cloak also;
5:41 无论谁强逼你走一里路，你就同他走二里。
And whoever compels you to go one mile, go with him two.
5:42 求你的，就给他；向你借贷的，不可转开不顾他。
To him who asks of you, give; and from him who wants to borrow from you, do not turn away.
5:43 你们听见有话说，“当爱你的邻舍，恨你的仇敌。”
You have heard that it was said, "You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.''
5:44 但是我告诉你们，要爱你们的仇敌，为那逼迫你们的祷告，
But I say to you, Love your enemies, and pray for those who persecute you,
5:45 你们就可以作你们诸天之上父的儿子；因为祂叫祂的日头上升，照恶人，也照好人；降雨给义人，也给不义的人。
So that you may become sons of your Father who is in the heavens, because He causes His sun to rise on the evil and the good and sends rain on the just and
the unjust.
5:46 你们若爱那爱你们的人，有什么赏赐？税吏不也是这样行么？
For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same?
5:47 你们若单向你们的弟兄问安，有什么过人的长处？外邦人不也是这样行么？
And if you greet only your brothers, what better thing are you doing? Do not even the Gentiles do the same?
5:48 所以你们要完全，像你们的天父完全一样。
You therefore shall be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect.
904
马太福音 Matthew 第 6 章
6:1 你们要小心，不可将你们的义行在人前，故意叫他们注视；不然，在你们诸天之上的父面前，你们就没有赏赐了。
But take care not to do your righteousness before men in order to be gazed at by them; otherwise, you have no reward with your Father who is in the heavens.
6:2 所以你施舍的时候，不可在你前面吹号，像那假冒为善的人在会堂里和巷道上所行的，为要得人的荣耀。我实在告诉你们，他们已经充分的得了他们
的赏赐。
Therefore when you give alms, do not sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, so that they may be glorified by
men. Truly I say to you, They have their reward in full.
6:3 但你施舍的时候，不要让左手知道右手所作的，
But you, when you give alms, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing,
6:4 好叫你的施舍可在隐密中，你父在隐密中察看，必要报答你。
So that your alms may be in secret; and your Father who sees in secret will repay you.
6:5 你们祷告的时候，不可像那假冒为善的人，因为他们爱站在会堂里，并十字街口祷告，为要叫人看见。我实在告诉你们，他们已经充分的得了他们的
赏赐。
And when you pray, you shall not be like the hypocrites, because they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the street corners, so that they may be
seen by men. Truly I say to you, They have their reward in full.
6:6 你祷告的时候，要进你的密室，关上门，祷告你在隐密中的父，你父在隐密中察看，必要报答你。
But you, when you pray, enter into your private room, and shut your door and pray to your Father who is in secret; and your Father who sees in secret will repay
you.
6:7 你们祷告，不可唠唠叨叨，像外邦人一样；他们以为话说多了，就必蒙垂听。
And in praying do not babble empty words as the Gentiles do; for they suppose that in their multiplicity of words they will be heard.
6:8 你们不可像他们，因为你们求祂以前，你们所需用的，你们的父早已知道了。
Therefore do not be like them, for your Father knows the things that you have need of before you ask Him.
6:9 所以你们要这样祷告：我们在诸天之上的父，愿你的名被尊为圣，
You then pray in this way: Our Father who is in the heavens, Your name be sanctified;
6:10 愿你的国来临，愿你的旨意行在地上，如同行在天上。
Your kingdom come; Your will be done, as in heaven, so also on earth.
6:11 我们日用的食物，今日赐给我们；
Give us today our daily bread.
6:12 免我们的债，如同我们免了欠我们债的人；
And forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors.
6:13 不叫我们陷入试诱，救我们脱离那恶者。因为国度、能力、荣耀，都是你的，直到永远。阿们。
And do not bring us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. For Yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen.
6:14 因为你们若赦免人的过犯，你们的天父也必赦免你们；
For if you forgive men their offenses, your heavenly Father will forgive you also;
6:15 你们若不赦免人的过犯，你们的父也必不赦免你们的过犯。
But if you do not forgive men their offenses, neither will your Father forgive your offenses.
6:16 还有，你们禁食的时候，不可面带愁容，像那假冒为善的人一样；他们把脸装得难看，为要叫人看出他们在禁食。我实在告诉你们，他们已经充分的
得了他们的赏赐。
And when you fast, do not be like the sullen-faced hypocrites, for they disfigure their faces so that they may appear to men to be fasting. Truly I say to you, They
have their reward in full.
6:17 但你禁食的时候，要油你的头，洗你的脸，
But you, when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face,
6:18 为要不叫人，只叫你在隐密中的父，看出你在禁食；你父在隐密中察看，必要报答你。
So that you may not appear to men to be fasting, but to your Father who is in secret; and your Father who sees in secret will repay you.
6:19 不要为自己积蓄财宝在地上，地上有虫蛀、锈蚀，也有贼挖洞偷窃；
Do not store up for yourselves treasures on the earth, where moth and rust consume and where thieves dig through and steal.
6:20 只要为自己积蓄财宝在天上，天上没有虫蛀、锈蚀，也没有贼挖洞偷窃。
But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust consumes and where thieves do not dig through nor steal.
6:21 因为你的财宝在那里，你的心也必在那里。
For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
6:22 眼睛乃是身上的灯。所以你的眼睛若单一，全身就明亮；
The lamp of the body is the eye. If therefore your eye is single, your whole body will be full of light;
6:23 但你的眼睛若不专，全身就黑暗。所以你里面的光若黑暗了，那黑暗是何等的大！
But if your eye is evil, your whole body will be dark. If then the light that is in you is darkness, how great is the darkness!
6:24 没有人能事奉两个主；因为他不是恨这个爱那个，就是忠于这个轻视那个。你们不能事奉神，又事奉玛门。
No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will hold to one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and
mammon.
6:25 所以我告诉你们，不要为生命忧虑，吃什么，喝什么；也不要为身体忧虑，穿什么。生命不胜于食物么？身体不胜于衣服么？
Because of this, I say to you, Do not be anxious for your life, what you should eat or what you should drink; nor for your body, what you should put on. Is not the
life more than food, and the body than clothing?
6:26 你们看天空的飞鸟，它们既不种，也不收，又不收积在仓里，你们的天父尚且养活它们。你们不比它们贵重么？
Look at the birds of heaven. They do not sow nor reap nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly Father nourishes them. Are you not of more value than they?
6:27 你们中间谁能因忧虑使自己的身量多加一肘？
Who among you by being anxious can add one cubit to his stature?
6:28 你们何必为衣服忧虑？你们细想野地里的百合花，怎样生长；它们既不劳苦，也不纺线。
905
And why are you anxious concerning clothing? Consider well the lilies of the field, how they grow. They do not toil, neither do they spin thread.
6:29 但我告诉你们，就是所罗门在他极盛的荣耀里，也没有披戴得像这些花中的一朵。
But I tell you that not even Solomon in all his glory was clothed like one of these.
6:30 小信的人哪，野地里的草，今天存在，明天就丢在炉里，神尚且这样给它穿戴，何况你们？
And if God so arrays the grass of the field, which is here today and tomorrow is cast into the furnace, will He not much more clothe you, you of little faith?
6:31 所以不要忧虑，说，我们要吃什么？喝什么？披戴什么？
Therefore do not be anxious, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, With what shall we be clothed?
6:32 因为这一切都是外邦人所急切寻求的，你们的天父原知道你们需要这一切。
For all these things the Gentiles are anxiously seeking. For your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things.
6:33 但你们要先寻求祂的国和祂的义，这一切就都要加给你们了。
But seek first His kingdom and His righteousness, and all these things will be added to you.
6:34 所以你们不要为明天忧虑，因为明天自有明天的忧虑，一天的难处一天当就够了。
Therefore do not be anxious for tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself; sufficient for the day is its own evil.
马太福音 Matthew 第 7 章
7:1 不要审判，免得你们受审判；
Do not judge, that you be not judged.
7:2 因为你们用什么审判审判人，也必受什么审判；你们用什么量器量给人，也必用什么量器量给你们。
For with what judgment you judge, you shall be judged; and with what measure you measure, it shall be measured to you.
7:3 再者，为什么看见你弟兄眼中的刺，却不想到自己眼中的梁木？
And why do you look at the splinter which is in your brother's eye, but the beam in your eye you do not consider?
7:4 或者，你怎能对你弟兄说，让我去掉你眼中的刺，而你自己眼中竟有梁木？
Or how can you say to your brother, Let me remove the splinter from your eye, and behold, the beam is in your eye?
7:5 你这假冒为善的人，先从你眼中去掉梁木，然后你才看得清楚，从你弟兄眼中去掉刺。
Hypocrite, first remove the beam from your eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the splinter from your brother's eye.
7:6 不要把圣物给狗，也不要把你们的珍珠丢在猪前，免得它们用脚践踏珍珠，并且转过来撕裂你们。
Do not give that which is holy to the dogs, neither cast your pearls before the hogs, lest they trample them with their feet, and turn and tear you.
7:7 求，就给你们；寻找，就寻见；叩门，就给你们开门。
Ask and it shall be given to you; seek and you shall find; knock and it shall be opened to you.
7:8 因为凡求的，就得着；寻找的，就寻见；叩门的，就给他开门。
For every one who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it shall be opened.
7:9 或者，你们中间有什么人，他的儿子向他求饼，反给他石头？
Or what man is there among you who, when his son asks him for a loaf, will give him a stone?
7:10 或求鱼，反给他蛇？
Or also when he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent?
7:11 你们虽然不好，尚且知道把好东西给儿女，何况你们在诸天之上的父，岂不更把好东西给求祂的人么？
If you then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in the heavens give good things to those who ask Him!
7:12 所以无论何事，你们愿意人怎样待你们，你们也要怎样待人；因为这就是律法和申言者的总纲。
Therefore all that you wish men would do to you, so also you do to them; for this is the law and the prophets.
7:13 你们要进窄门；因为引到毁坏的，那门宽，那路阔，进去的人也多；
Enter in through the narrow gate, for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and many are those who enter through it.
7:14 引到生命的，那门窄，那路狭，找着的人也少。
Because narrow is the gate and constricted is the way that leads to life, and few are those who find it.
7:15 你们要提防假申言者，他们到你们这里来，外面披着绵羊的皮，里面却是贪食的狼。
Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves.
7:16 从他们的果子，你们就可以认出他们来。人岂能从荆棘收取葡萄？或从蒺藜收取无花果？
By their fruits you will recognize them. Do men gather grapes from thorns, or figs from thistles?
7:17 这样，凡是好树都结善果，惟独坏树才结恶果。
Even so every good tree produces good fruit, but the corrupt tree produces bad fruit.
7:18 好树不能结恶果，坏树也不能结善果。
A good tree cannot produce bad fruit, neither can a corrupt tree produce good fruit.
7:19 凡不结善果的树，就砍下来，丢在火里。
Every tree that does not produce good fruit is cut down and cast into the fire.
7:20 所以，从他们的果子，你们就可以认出他们来。
So then, by their fruits you will recognize them.
7:21 不是每一个对我说，主阿，主阿的人，都能进诸天的国，惟独实行我诸天之上父旨意的人，才能进去。
Not every one who says to Me, Lord, Lord, will enter into the kingdom of the heavens, but he who does the will of My Father who is in the heavens.
7:22 当那日，许多人要对我说，主阿，主阿，我们不是在你的名里预言过，在你的名里赶鬼过，并在你的名里行过许多异能么？
Many will say to Me in that day, Lord, Lord, was it not in Your name that we prophesied, and in Your name cast out demons, and in Your name did many works
of power?
7:23 那时，我要向他们宣告：我从来不认识你们，你们这些行不法的人，离开我去吧。
And then I will declare to them: I never knew you. Depart from Me, you workers of lawlessness.
7:24 所以，凡听见我这些话就实行的，好比一个精明人，把他的房子盖在磐石上。
Every one therefore who hears these words of Mine and does them shall be likened to a prudent man who built his house upon the rock.
906
7:25 雨淋、河冲、风吹，撞着那房子，房子总不倒塌，因为是立基在磐石上。
And the rain descended, and the rivers came, and the winds blew, and they beat against that house; and it did not fall, for it was founded on the rock.
7:26 凡听见我这些话不实行的，好比一个愚拙人，把他的房子盖在沙土上。
And every one who hears these words of Mine and does not do them shall be likened to a foolish man who built his house upon the sand.
7:27 雨淋、河冲、风吹，撞着那房子，房子就倒塌了，并且倒塌得很大。
And the rain descended, and the rivers came, and the winds blew, and they dashed against that house; and it fell, and its fall was great.
7:28 耶稣讲完了这些话，群众都惊讶祂的教训；
And when Jesus finished these words, the crowds were astounded at His teaching,
7:29 因为祂教训他们，像有权柄的人，不像他们的经学家。
For He taught them as One having authority and not like their scribes.
马太福音 Matthew 第 8 章
8:1 耶稣下了山，有好多群众跟着祂。
And when He came down from the mountain, great crowds followed Him.
8:2 看哪，有一个患痲疯的人前来拜祂，说，主阿，你若肯，必能叫我洁净了。
And behold, a leper, coming near, worshipped Him, saying, Lord, if You are willing, You can cleanse me.
8:3 耶稣伸手摸他，说，我肯，你洁净了吧。他的痲疯立刻洁净了。
And stretching out His hand, He touched him, saying, I am willing; be cleansed! And immediately his leprosy was cleansed.
8:4 耶稣对他说，你要当心，不可告诉人，只要去把身体给祭司察看，并且献上摩西所规定的礼物，对他们作证据。
And Jesus said to him, See that you tell no one; but go, show yourself to the priest, and offer the gift which Moses commanded, for a testimony to them.
8:5 耶稣进了迦百农，有一个百夫长到祂跟前来，恳求祂说，
And when He entered into Capernaum, a centurion came to Him, beseeching Him
8:6 主阿，我的仆人瘫痪了，躺在家里，极感痛苦。
And saying, Lord, my servant is lying in the house paralyzed, terribly tormented.
8:7 耶稣对他说，我去治好他。
And He said to him, I will come and heal him.
8:8 百夫长回答说，主阿，我不配你到舍下来，只要你说一句话，我的仆人就必得医治。
But the centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not fit for You to enter under my roof; but only speak a word, and my servant will be healed.
8:9 因为我也是一个在权柄之下的人，有兵在我以下；我对这个说，去，他就去；对那个说，来，他就来；对我的奴仆说，作这事，他就作。
For I also am a man under authority, having soldiers under me. And I say to this one, Go, and he goes; and to another, Come, and he comes; and to my slave,
Do this, and he does it.
8:10 耶稣听见，就希奇，对跟从的人说，我实在告诉你们，这样大的信心，我在以色列中，没有遇见人有过。
Now when Jesus heard this, He marveled and said to those who followed, Truly I say to you, With no one in Israel have I found such great faith.
8:11 我又告诉你们，从东从西，将有许多人要来，在诸天的国里与亚伯拉罕、以撒、雅各一同坐席。
But I say to you that many will come from the east and the west and will recline at table with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of the heavens,
8:12 但国度之子要被扔在外面黑暗里，在那里必要哀哭切齿了。
But the sons of the kingdom will be cast out into the outer darkness. In that place there will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
8:13 耶稣对百夫长说，去吧，照你所信的，给你成就了。他的仆人就在那时得了医治。
And Jesus said to the centurion, Go. As you have believed, so be it done to you. And his servant was healed in that hour.
8:14 耶稣到了彼得家里，见他的岳母发烧躺着。
And Jesus, coming into Peter's house, saw his mother-in-law lying down and in a fever.
8:15 耶稣摸她的手，烧就退了；她便起来服事耶稣。
And He touched her hand, and the fever left her. And she arose and served Him.
8:16 到了黄昏，有人带着许多鬼附的到祂跟前，祂用一句话赶出那些灵，并且治好了一切患病的人。
And when evening fell, they brought to Him many who were demon possessed, and He cast out the spirits with a word, and all those who were ill He healed,
8:17 这是要应验那借着申言者以赛亚所说的，说，“祂亲自取去了我们的软弱，担当了我们的疾病。”
So that what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, saying, "He Himself took away our infirmities and bore our diseases.''
8:18 耶稣看见群众围着祂，就吩咐离开到对岸去。
Now when Jesus saw a crowd around Him, He gave orders to depart to the other side.
8:19 有一个经学家进前来，对祂说，夫子，你无论往那里去，我都要跟从你。
And a scribe came near and said to Him, Teacher, I will follow You wherever You go.
8:20 耶稣对他说，狐狸有洞，天空的飞鸟有窝，人子却没有枕头的地方。
And Jesus said to him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of heaven have roosts, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay His head.
8:21 门徒中另有一个对祂说，主阿，准我先去埋葬我的父亲。
And another of the disciples said to Him, Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father.
8:22 耶稣说，让死人埋葬他们的死人，你跟从我吧。
But Jesus said to him, Follow Me, and let the dead bury their own dead.
8:23 耶稣上了船，门徒跟着祂。
And when He stepped into the boat, His disciples followed Him.
8:24 看哪，海里起了大风暴，以致船被波浪掩盖，耶稣却睡着。
And behold, there arose a great tempest in the sea, so that the boat was covered by the waves; but He was sleeping.
8:25 门徒进前来叫醒了祂，说，主阿，救我们，我们丧命啦！
And they came near and roused Him, saying, Lord, save us; we are perishing!
8:26 祂对他们说，小信的人哪，你们为什么胆怯？于是起来，斥责风和海，风和海就大大的平静了。
907
And He said to them, Why are you cowardly, you of little faith? Then He arose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm.
8:27 众人都希奇说，这是什么样的人，连风和海也听从了祂？
And the men marveled, saying, What kind of man is this that even the winds and the sea obey Him?
8:28 耶稣来到对岸，到了加大拉人的地方，有两个鬼附的人从坟茔里出来迎着祂，极其凶猛，以致没有人能从那条路上经过。
And when He came to the other side, into the region of the Gadarenes, two possessed by demons met Him, as they were coming out of the tombs, so
exceedingly fierce that no one was able to pass by on that road.
8:29 他们喊着说，神的儿子，我们与你何干？时候还没有到，你就来这里叫我们受苦么？
And behold, they cried out, saying, What do we have to do with You, Son of God? Have You come here before the time to torment us?
8:30 离他们很远，有一大群猪正在吃食。
Now there was, a good way off from them, a herd of many hogs feeding.
8:31 鬼央求耶稣说，你若赶我们，就打发我们进入猪群吧。
And the demons entreated Him, saying, If You cast us out, send us into the herd of hogs.
8:32 祂对它们说，去吧！鬼就出来，进入猪群；全群骤然闯下山崖，投入海里，死在水中。
And He said to them, Go! And they came out and went into the hogs. And behold, the whole herd rushed down the steep slope into the sea, and they died in the
waters.
8:33 放猪的就逃跑进城，将一切事，和鬼附之人的事，都报告出来。
And those who were feeding them fled and went away into the city and reported everything, including what had happened to those possessed by demons.
8:34 全城的人都出来，要迎见耶稣；既看见了，就恳求祂离开他们的境界。
And behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus; and when they saw Him, they entreated Him to depart from their borders.
马太福音 Matthew 第 9 章
9:1 耶稣上了船，渡过去，来到自己的城里。
And stepping into a boat, He crossed over and came to His own city.
9:2 看哪，有人用卧榻抬着一个瘫子到祂跟前来。耶稣见他们的信心，就对瘫子说，孩子，放心吧，你的罪赦了。
And behold, they brought to Him a paralytic, lying on a bed. And Jesus, seeing their faith, said to the paralytic, Take courage, child; your sins are forgiven.
9:3 竟有几个经学家心里说，这个人说僭妄的话了。
And behold, some of the scribes said within themselves, This man blasphemes.
9:4 耶稣知道他们的心意，就说，你们为什么心里思念恶事？
And Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, Why are you thinking evil things in your hearts?
9:5 说，你的罪赦了，或说，你起来行走，哪一样更容易？
For which is easier, to say, Your sins are forgiven, or to say, Rise and walk?
9:6 但要叫你们知道人子在地上有赦罪的权柄─于是对瘫子说，起来，拿你的卧榻回家去吧！
But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins -- then He said to the paralytic, Rise, take up your bed and go to your house.
9:7 那人就起来，回家去了。
And he rose and went away to his house.
9:8 群众看见，就起了敬畏，荣耀那赐这样权柄给人的神。
And when the crowds saw this, they feared and glorified God, who had given such authority to men.
9:9 耶稣从那里往前走，看见一个人名叫马太，坐在税关上，就对他说，跟从我。他就起来，跟从了耶稣。
And as Jesus passed on from there, He saw a man sitting at the tax office, called Matthew, and He said to him, Follow Me. And he rose and followed Him.
9:10 耶稣在屋里坐席，看哪，有好些税吏和罪人来，与耶稣和祂的门徒一同坐席。
And as He was reclining at table in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners came and reclined together with Jesus and His disciples.
9:11 法利赛人看见，就对耶稣的门徒说，你们的老师为什么和税吏并罪人一同吃饭？
And when the Pharisees saw it, they said to His disciples, Why does your Teacher eat with the tax collectors and sinners?
9:12 耶稣听见，就说，强健的人用不着医生，有病的人才用得着。
Now when He heard this, He said, Those who are strong have no need of a physician, but those who are ill.
9:13 你们去研究，“我要的是怜悯，不是祭祀，”是什么意思；我来本不是召义人，乃是召罪人。
But go and learn what this means, "I desire mercy and not sacrifice,'' for I did not come to call the righteous, but sinners.
9:14 那时，约翰的门徒到耶稣跟前来，说，为什么我们和法利赛人常常禁食，你的门徒倒不禁食？
Then the disciples of John came to Him, saying, Why do we and the Pharisees fast much, but Your disciples do not fast?
9:15 耶稣对他们说，新郎和伴友同在的时候，伴友岂能哀恸？但日子将到，新郎要从他们中间被取去，那时他们就要禁食。
And Jesus said to them, The sons of the bridechamber cannot mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them, can they? But days will come when the bridegroom
will be taken away from them, and then they will fast.
9:16 再者，没有人用未漂过的布作补丁，补在旧衣服上，因为所补上的，会扯破那衣服，裂缝就更大了。
No one puts a patch of unfulled cloth on an old garment, for that which fills it up pulls away from the garment, and a worse tear is made.
9:17 也没有人把新酒装在旧皮袋里；不然，皮袋胀裂，酒泻出来，皮袋也就坏了。人乃是把新酒装在新皮袋里，两样就都得保全。
Neither do they put new wine into old wineskins; otherwise, the wineskins burst, and the wine pours out, and the wineskins are ruined; but they put new wine into
fresh wineskins, and both are preserved.
9:18 耶稣正对他们讲这些事的时候，看哪，有一个管会堂的来拜祂，说，我的女儿刚死了，但你去按手在她身上，她就要活了。
As He was speaking these things to them, behold, a ruler came and worshipped Him, saying, My daughter has just died, but come and lay Your hand on her,
and she will live.
9:19 耶稣便起来，跟着他去，祂的门徒也跟了去。
And Jesus rose and followed him, and so did His disciples.
9:20 看哪，有一个女人，患了十二年血漏，来到耶稣背后，摸祂的衣服穗子；
And behold, a woman who had been suffering from a hemorrhage for twelve years approached from behind and touched the fringe of His garment,
908
9:21 因为她心里说，我只要摸着祂的衣服，就必得拯救。
For she said within herself, If only I touch His garment, I will be healed.
9:22 耶稣转过来，看见她，就说，女儿，放心，你的信救了你。从那时候，那女人就得了拯救。
And Jesus, turning and seeing her, said, Take courage, daughter; your faith has healed you. And the woman was healed from that hour.
9:23 耶稣到了管会堂的家里，看见吹笛的人，和乱嚷的群众，
And when Jesus came to the ruler's house and saw the flute players and the crowd making a commotion,
9:24 就说，走开吧，这闺女不是死了，乃是睡了。他们就嗤笑祂。
He said, Depart, for the girl has not died but is sleeping. And they laughed scornfully at Him.
9:25 群众既被撵出，耶稣就进去，握着闺女的手，闺女便起来了。
But when the crowd had been put out, He entered and took hold of her hand, and the girl rose up.
9:26 于是这风声传遍了那地方。
And this report went out into all that land.
9:27 耶稣从那里往前走，有两个瞎子跟着祂，喊叫说，大卫的子孙，可怜我们吧！
And as Jesus passed on from there, two blind men followed Him, crying out and saying, Have mercy on us, Son of David!
9:28 耶稣进了屋子，瞎子就到祂跟前来。耶稣对他们说，你们信我能作这事么？他们对祂说，主阿，是的。
And when He came into the house, the blind men came to Him; and Jesus said to them, Do you believe that I am able to do this? They said to Him, Yes, Lord.
9:29 耶稣就摸他们的眼睛，说，照着你们的信，给你们成就了吧！
Then He touched their eyes, saying, According to your faith, let it be done to you.
9:30 他们的眼睛就开了。耶稣严严的嘱咐他们说，当心，不可让人知道。
And their eyes were opened. And Jesus sternly charged them saying, See that no one knows!
9:31 但他们出去，竟把祂传遍了那地方。
But they went out and spread reports about Him in all that land.
9:32 他们出去的时候，看哪，有人将一个被鬼附的哑吧，带到耶稣跟前来。
And as they were going out, behold, they brought to Him a dumb man possessed with a demon.
9:33 鬼一被赶出去，哑吧就说出话来。群众都希奇说，在以色列中，这样的事从来没有出现过。
And when the demon was cast out, the dumb man spoke. And the crowds marveled, saying, Never has anything like this been seen in Israel.
9:34 法利赛人却说，祂是靠着鬼王赶鬼。
But the Pharisees said, By the ruler of the demons He casts out the demons.
9:35 耶稣走遍各城各乡，在他们的会堂里施教，传扬国度的福音，并医治百姓各样的疾病，和各种的症候。
And Jesus went about all the cities and the villages, teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every
sickness.
9:36 祂看见群众，就对他们动了慈心，因为他们困苦流离，如同羊没有牧人一样。
And seeing the crowds, He was moved with compassion for them, because they were harassed and cast away like sheep not having a shepherd.
9:37 于是对门徒说，庄稼固多，工人却少；
Then He said to His disciples, The harvest is great, but the workers few;
9:38 所以要祈求庄稼的主，催赶工人收割祂的庄稼。
Therefore beseech the Lord of the harvest that He would thrust out workers into His harvest.
马太福音 Matthew 第 10 章
10:1 耶稣叫了十二个门徒来，给他们制伏污灵的权柄，可以赶逐它们，并医治各样的疾病，和各种的症候。
And He called His twelve disciples to Him and gave them authority over unclean spirits, so that they would cast them out and heal every disease and every
sickness.
10:2 这十二使徒的名字是：头一个，称呼彼得的西门，还有他的兄弟安得烈；西庇太的儿子雅各，和他的兄弟约翰；
And the names of the twelve apostles are these: first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother; and James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother;
10:3 腓力和巴多罗买；多马和税吏马太；亚勒腓的儿子雅各，和达太；
Philip and Bartholomew; Thomas and Matthew the tax collector; James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus;
10:4 热烈派的西门，和出卖耶稣的加略人犹大。
Simon the Cananaean, and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed Him.
10:5 耶稣差遣这十二个出去，吩咐他们说：外邦人的路，你们不要走，撒玛利亚人的城，你们也不要进，
These twelve Jesus sent forth, charging them, saying, Do not go into the way of the Gentiles, and do not enter into any city of the Samaritans.
10:6 宁可往以色列家迷失的羊那里去。
But go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
10:7 且要随走随传，说，诸天的国已经临近了。
And as you go, proclaim, saying, The kingdom of the heavens has drawn near.
10:8 要医治病弱的，复活死亡的，洁净患痲疯的，把鬼赶出去；你们白白的领受了，就要白白的施与。
Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse the lepers, cast out demons. Freely you have received; freely give.
10:9 你们腰袋里不要带金银铜钱，
Do not acquire for yourselves gold nor silver nor copper for your belts;
10:10 行路不要带口袋，不要带两件里衣，也不要带鞋和手杖，因为作工的配得食物。
No bag for the journey nor two tunics nor sandals nor a staff; for the worker is worthy of his food.
10:11 你们无论进那一城、那一乡，要打听那里谁是配的，就住在那里，直到离去。
And into whatever city or village you enter, find out who in it is worthy; and there remain until you depart.
10:12 你们进了那家，要向那家问安。
And as you enter into the house, greet it.
909
10:13 那家若配得，就让你们的平安临到那家；若不配得，就让你们的平安仍归你们。
And if the house is worthy, let your peace come upon it; but if it is not worthy, let your peace return to you.
10:14 凡不接待你们，不听你们话的，你们离开那家或那城的时候，就把脚上的尘土跺下去。
And whoever does not receive you nor hear your words, as you go out of that house or city, shake off the dust from your feet.
10:15 我实在告诉你们，在审判的日子，所多玛和蛾摩拉地所受的，比那城所受的还容易。
Truly I say to you, It will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city.
10:16 看哪，我差遣你们去，如同绵羊在狼中间；所以你们要灵巧像蛇，纯真像鸽子。
Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves. Be therefore prudent as serpents and guileless as doves.
10:17 且要提防人；因为他们要把你们交给议会，也要在他们的会堂里鞭打你们；
And beware of men, for they will deliver you up to sanhedrins, and in their synagogues they will scourge you.
10:18 并且你们要为我的缘故，被送到官长和君王面前，对他们和外邦人作见证。
And you will also be brought before governors and kings for My sake, for a testimony to them and to the Gentiles.
10:19 但他们把你们交给人的时候，你们不要忧虑怎么说，或说什么；因为在那时刻，自会赐给你们当说的。
But when they deliver you up, do not be anxious about how or what you should speak, for it will be given to you in that hour what you should speak;
10:20 因为说话的不是你们，乃是你们父的灵在你们里面说话。
For you are not the ones speaking, but the Spirit of your Father is the One speaking in you.
10:21 并且弟兄要把弟兄，父亲要把儿女，交到死地；儿女要起来与父母为敌，害死他们。
And brother will deliver up brother to death, and father his child; and children will rise up against their parents and put them to death.
10:22 你们还要因我的名，被众人恨恶；惟有忍耐到底的，必然得救。
And you will be hated by all because of My name. But he who has endured to the end, this one shall be saved.
10:23 但几时人在这城逼迫你们，就逃到别城去；我实在告诉你们，以色列的城邑，你们还没有走完，人子就来了。
And when they persecute you in this city, flee into another. For truly I say to you, You shall by no means finish the cities of Israel until the Son of Man comes.
10:24 门徒并不高过老师，奴仆也不高过主人。
A disciple is not above the teacher, nor a slave above his master.
10:25 门徒和他的老师一样，奴仆和他的主人一样，也就够了。人既称家主为别西卜，何况他的家人？
It is sufficient for the disciple that he become like his teacher, and the slave like his master. If they have called the Master of the house Beelzebul, how much more
those of His household!
10:26 所以不要怕他们；因为掩盖的事没有不被揭露的，隐藏的事没有不被人知道的。
Therefore do not fear them; for there is nothing covered which will not be revealed, and hidden which will not be made known.
10:27 我在暗中告诉你们的，你们要在明处说出来；你们耳中所听的，要在房顶上宣扬出来。
What I say to you in the darkness, speak in the light; and what you hear in the ear, proclaim on the housetops.
10:28 不要怕那些杀身体，却不能杀魂的；惟要怕那能把魂和身体都灭在火坑里的。
And do not fear those who kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul; but rather fear Him who is able to destroy both soul and body in Gehenna.
10:29 两只麻雀不是卖一个铜钱么？没有你们父的许可，一只也不会掉在地上。
Are not two sparrows sold for an assarion? And not one of them will fall to the earth apart from your Father.
10:30 就是连你们的头发，也都被数过了。
But even the hairs of your head are all numbered.
10:31 所以不要怕，你们比许多麻雀还贵重。
Therefore do not fear; you are of more value than many sparrows.
10:32 凡在人面前，在我里面承认我的，我在我诸天之上的父面前，也必在他里面承认他；
Every one therefore who will confess in Me before men, I also will confess in him before My Father who is in the heavens;
10:33 凡在人面前不认我的，我在我诸天之上的父面前，也必不认他。
But whoever will deny Me before men, I also will deny him before My Father who is in the heavens.
10:34 不要以为我来，是给地上带来和平；我来并不是带来和平，乃是带来刀剑。
Do not think that I have come to bring peace on the earth; I have not come to bring peace, but a sword.
10:35 因为我来是叫人不和：儿子反他的父亲，女儿反她的母亲，儿媳反她的婆婆；
For I have come to set men at variance: a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law;
10:36 人的仇敌就是自己家里的人。
And a man's enemies will be those of his household.
10:37 爱父母过于爱我的，配不过我；爱儿女过于爱我的，配不过我；
He who loves father or mother above Me is not worthy of Me; and he who loves son or daughter above Me is not worthy of Me;
10:38 不背起他的十字架，并跟从我的，也配不过我。
And he who does not take his cross and follow after Me is not worthy of Me.
10:39 得着魂生命的，必要丧失魂生命；为我的缘故丧失魂生命的，必要得着魂生命。
He who finds his soul-life shall lose it, and he who loses his soul-life for My sake shall find it.
10:40 接待你们的，就是接待我；接待我的，就是接待那差遣我的。
He who receives you receives Me, and he who receives Me receives Him who has sent Me.
10:41 因申言者的名接待申言者的，必得申言者的赏赐；因义人的名接待义人的，必得义人的赏赐。
He who receives a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward, and he who receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man
shall receive a righteous man's reward.
10:42 无论谁，因门徒的名，只把一杯凉水给这小子里的一个喝，我实在告诉你们，他绝不会失去他的赏赐。
And whoever gives to one of these little ones only a cup of cold water to drink in the name of a disciple, truly I say to you, he shall by no means lose his reward.
马太福音 Matthew 第 11 章
910
11:1 耶稣吩咐完了十二个门徒，就离开那里，在他们的诸城中施教并传道。
And when Jesus had finished giving instructions to His twelve disciples, He departed from there to teach and to preach in their cities.
11:2 这时，约翰在监里听见基督所作的，就要他的门徒带话去，
Now when John heard in the prison of the works of the Christ, he sent word through his disciples
11:3 问祂说，那要来者是你么？还是我们该期待别人？
And said to Him, Are You the Coming One, or should we expect another?
11:4 耶稣回答他们说，你们去，把所闻所见的报告约翰，
And Jesus answered and said to them, Go, report to John the things that you hear and see:
11:5 就是瞎子看见，瘸子行走，患痲疯的得洁净，聋子听见，死人复活，穷人有福音传给他们。
The blind receive their sight and the lame walk; the lepers are cleansed and the deaf hear; and the dead are raised and the poor have the gospel announced to
them;
11:6 凡不因我绊跌的，就有福了。
And blessed is he who is not stumbled because of Me.
11:7 他们走了，耶稣就对群众讲论约翰说，你们从前出到旷野，要看什么？被风吹动的芦苇么？
And as these went away, Jesus began to say to the crowds concerning John, What did you go out into the wilderness to look at? A reed shaken by the wind?
11:8 你们出去，到底要看什么？穿细软衣服的人么？看哪，那穿细软衣服的人，是在王宫里。
But what did you go out to see? A man arrayed in soft clothing? Behold, those who wear soft clothing are in the houses of kings.
11:9 你们出去究竟为什么？要看申言者么？我告诉你们，是的，他比申言者大多了。
But why did you go out? To see a prophet? Yes, I say to you, and much more than a prophet.
11:10 这人就是经上所记的，“看哪，我在你面前差遣我的使者，他要在你前面预备你的道路。”
This is he concerning whom it is written, "Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, who will prepare Your way before You.''
11:11 我实在告诉你们，妇人所生的，没有一个兴起来大过施浸者约翰的；然而在诸天的国里最小的比他还大。
Truly I say to you, Among those born of women there has not arisen one greater than John the Baptist, yet he who is least in the kingdom of the heavens is
greater than he.
11:12 可是，从施浸者约翰的日子直到现在，诸天的国是强力夺取的，强力的人就夺得了。
But from the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of the heavens is taken by violence, and violent men seize it.
11:13 因为众申言者和律法申言，到约翰为止；
For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John;
11:14 你们若肯接受，他就是那要来的以利亚。
And if you are willing to receive it, he is Elijah, who is to come.
11:15 有耳可听的，就应当听。
He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
11:16 但我可把这世代比作什么？好比孩童坐在市场上，招呼另一些孩童说，
But to what shall I liken this generation? It is like little children sitting in the marketplaces, who call to the others
11:17 我们向你们吹笛，你们不跳舞；我们哀歌，你们不捶胸。
And say, We have played the flute to you, and you did not dance; we have sung a dirge, and you did not mourn.
11:18 约翰来了，不吃不喝，人就说，他有鬼附着。
For John came neither eating nor drinking; and they say, He has a demon.
11:19 人子来了，也吃也喝，人又说，看哪，一个贪食好酒的人，一个税吏和罪人的朋友。但智慧从她的行为得称为义。
The Son of Man came eating and drinking; and they say, Behold, a gluttonous man and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. Yet wisdom is justified
by her works.
11:20 那时，耶稣开始责备那些祂曾在其中行过大多数异能的城，因为她们没有悔改：
Then He began to reproach the cities in which most of His works of power took place, because they did not repent:
11:21 哥拉汛哪，你有祸了！伯赛大阿，你有祸了！因为在你们中间所行的异能，若行在推罗、西顿，她们早已披麻蒙灰悔改了。
Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the works of power which took place in you had taken place in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented
long ago in sackcloth and ashes.
11:22 但我告诉你们，在审判的日子，推罗、西顿所受的，比你们所受的还容易。
But I say to you, It will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the day of judgment than for you.
11:23 还有你，迦百农阿，你已经被高举到天上，你必坠落到阴间。因为在你那里所行的异能，若行在所多玛，她必会存留到今天。
And you, Capernaum, who have been exalted to heaven, to Hades you will be brought down. For if the works of power which took place in you had taken place
in Sodom, it would have remained until today.
11:24 但我告诉你们，在审判的日子，所多玛地所受的，比你所受的还容易。
But I say to you that it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment than for you.
11:25 那时，耶稣回答说，父阿，天地的主，我颂扬你，因为你将这些事，向智慧通达人藏起来，向婴孩却启示出来。
At that time Jesus answered and said, I extol You, Father, Lord of heaven and of earth, because You have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent and
have revealed them to infants.
11:26 父阿，是的，因为在你眼中看为美的，本是如此。
Yes, Father, for thus it has been well-pleasing in Your sight.
11:27 我父已将一切都交付了我；除了父，没有人认识子；除了子和子所愿意启示的，也没有人认识父。
All things have been delivered to Me by My Father, and no one fully knows the Son except the Father; neither does anyone fully know the Father except the Son
and him to whom the Son wills to reveal Him.
11:28 凡劳苦担重担的，可以到我这里来，我必使你们得安息。
Come to Me all who toil and are burdened, and I will give you rest.
11:29 我心里柔和谦卑，因此你们要负我的轭，且要跟我学，你们魂里就必得安息；
Take My yoke upon you and learn from Me, for I am meek and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls.
11:30 因为我的轭是容易的，我的担子是轻省的。
911
For My yoke is easy and My burden is light.
马太福音 Matthew 第 12 章
12:1 那时，耶稣在安息日从麦地经过，祂的门徒饿了，就掐起麦穗来吃。
At that time Jesus went on the Sabbath through the grainfields. And His disciples became hungry and began to pick ears of grain and eat.
12:2 法利赛人看见，就对祂说，看哪，你的门徒在作安息日不可作的事。
But the Pharisees, seeing this, said to Him, Behold, Your disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath.
12:3 耶稣却对他们说，大卫和跟从他的人饥饿之时所作的，你们没有念过么？
But He said to them, Have you not read what David did when he became hungry, and those who were with him;
12:4 他怎样进了神的殿，他们且吃了陈设饼，就是他不可吃，跟从他的人也不可吃，惟独祭司才可吃的。
How he entered into the house of God, and they ate the bread of the presence, which was not lawful for him to eat, nor for those who were with him, except for
the priests only?
12:5 再者，律法上记着，当安息日，祭司在殿里渎犯了安息日，还是没有罪，你们没有念过么？
Or have you not read in the law that on the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath and are guiltless?
12:6 但我告诉你们，在这里有比殿更大的。
But I say to you that something greater than the temple is here.
12:7 还有，你们若明白什么是“我要的是怜悯，不是祭祀，”就不会定无罪的为有罪了。
But if you knew what this means, "I desire mercy and not sacrifice,'' you would not have condemned the guiltless.
12:8 因为人子是安息日的主。
For the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.
12:9 于是耶稣离开那里，进了他们的会堂；
And departing from there, He came into their synagogue.
12:10 看哪，有一个人枯干了一只手；有人问耶稣说，在安息日可以治病么？为的是要控告祂。
And behold, a man who had a withered hand was there. And they asked Him, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? so that they might accuse Him.
12:11 祂对他们说，你们中间谁有一只羊，若在安息日掉在坑里，不把它抓住拉上来？
And He said to them, What man will there be among you who will have one sheep, and if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not take hold of it and lift it out?
12:12 人比羊贵重多了；所以在安息日可以行善。
Of how much more value then is a man than a sheep! So then it is lawful to do well on the Sabbath.
12:13 于是祂对那人说，伸出手来。他一伸，手就复了原，像另一只手那样的康健。
Then He said to the man, Stretch out your hand. And he stretched it out and it was restored, as sound as the other.
12:14 但法利赛人出去，商议怎样抵挡祂，为要除灭祂。
But the Pharisees, going out, took counsel against Him as to how they might destroy Him.
12:15 耶稣知道了，就离开那里。有许多人跟着祂，祂把他们都治好了，
But Jesus, knowing it, withdrew from there. And many followed Him, and He healed them all;
12:16 又嘱咐他们，不要显扬祂。
And He charged them not to make Him known,
12:17 这是要应验那借着申言者以赛亚所说的，说，
In order that what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, saying,
12:18 “看哪，我的仆人，我所拣选，我所爱，我魂所喜悦的；我要将我的灵放在祂身上，祂必将公理宣布与外邦。
"Behold, My Servant whom I have chosen, My Beloved in whom My soul has found delight. I will put My Spirit upon Him, and He will announce justice to the
Gentiles.
12:19 祂不争竞，不喧嚷，街上也没有人听见祂的声音。
He will not strive nor cry out, nor will anyone hear His voice in the streets.
12:20 压伤的芦苇，祂不折断；将残的火把，祂不吹灭，直到祂施行公理，至于得胜。
A bruised reed He will not break, and smoking flax He will not quench until He brings forth justice unto victory.
12:21 外邦人都要仰望祂的名。”
And in His name will the Gentiles hope.''
12:22 当下，有一个鬼附、又瞎又哑的人，被带到耶稣那里；耶稣就治好了他，以致那哑吧又说话，又看见。
Then there was brought to Him one possessed by a demon, blind and dumb, and He healed him, so that the dumb man spoke and saw.
12:23 所有的群众都惊奇，说，莫非这是大卫的子孙么？
And all the crowds were amazed and said, Is this not the Son of David?
12:24 法利赛人听见了，却说，这个人赶鬼，无非是靠着鬼王别西卜。
But the Pharisees, hearing this, said, This man does not cast out the demons except by Beelzebul, ruler of the demons.
12:25 耶稣知道他们的心意，就对他们说，凡国自相分争，必至荒凉；凡城或家自相分争，也难站住。
But knowing their thoughts, He said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself becomes desolate, and every city or house divided against itself will not stand.
12:26 若撒但赶逐撒但，他就自相分争，他的国怎能站住？
And if Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand?
12:27 我若是靠着别西卜赶鬼，你们的子弟又是靠着谁赶呢？这样，他们就要审判你们了。
And if I, by Beelzebul, cast out the demons, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges.
12:28 我若靠着神的灵赶鬼，这就是神的国临到你们了。
But if I, by the Spirit of God, cast out the demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.
12:29 人怎能进壮者家里，抢夺他的家具？除非先捆绑那壮者，才能洗劫他的家。
Or how can anyone enter into the house of the strong man and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strong man? And then he will thoroughly plunder his
house.
912
12:30 不与我相合的，就是敌我的；不同我收聚的，就是分散的。
He who is not with Me is against Me, and he who does not gather with Me scatters.
12:31 所以我告诉你们，人一切的罪和亵渎，都能得赦免；惟独亵渎那灵，不能得赦免。
Therefore I say to you, Every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven men, but blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven.
12:32 并且无论谁说话抵挡人子，他都能得赦免；但无论谁说话抵挡圣灵，无论在今世，或是在来世，他都不能得赦免。
And whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him; but whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit, it will not be forgiven him, neither in this
age nor in the one to come.
12:33 或说树好，果子就好；或说树坏，果子也坏；树总是凭果子认出来的。
Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree corrupt and its fruit corrupt; for by the fruit the tree is known.
12:34 毒蛇之种，你们既是恶的，怎能说出善来？因为心里所充满的，口里就说出来。
Offspring of vipers, how can you, being evil, speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks.
12:35 善人从他所存的善，发出善来；恶人从他所存的恶，发出恶来。
The good man, out of his good treasure, brings forth good things, and the evil man, out of his evil treasure, brings forth evil things.
12:36 我还告诉你们，人所说的每句闲话，在审判的日子，都必须供出来。
And I say to you that every idle word which men shall speak, they will render an account concerning it in the day of judgment.
12:37 因为要凭你的话，称你为义；也要凭你的话，定你有罪。
For by your words you shall be justified, and by your words you shall be condemned.
12:38 当时有几个经学家和法利赛人应声对耶稣说，夫子，我们愿意你显个神迹给我们看。
Then some of the scribes and Pharisees answered Him, saying, Teacher, we want to see a sign from You.
12:39 耶稣回答他们说，邪恶淫乱的世代寻求神迹，除了申言者约拿的神迹以外，再没有神迹给它。
But He answered and said to them, An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and a sign shall not be given to it except the sign of Jonah the prophet.
12:40 因为约拿怎样三日三夜在大鱼腹中，人子也必照样三日三夜在地心里。
For just as Jonah was in the belly of the great fish three days and three nights, so will the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth three days and three nights.
12:41 在审判的时候，尼尼微人要同这世代站起来，并要定这世代的罪，因为他们听了约拿所传扬的，就悔改了。看哪，在这里有比约拿更大的。
Ninevite men will stand up in the judgment with this generation and will condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something
more than Jonah is here.
12:42 在审判的时候，南方的女王要同这世代起来，并要定这世代的罪，因为她从地极来，要听所罗门的智慧话。看哪，在这里有比所罗门更大的。
The queen of the south will rise up in the judgment with this generation and will condemn it, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of
Solomon, and behold, something more than Solomon is here.
12:43 污灵从人里面出来，在无水之地荡来荡去，寻找安歇之处，却寻不着。
When the unclean spirit goes out from the man, it roams through waterless places, seeking rest, and does not find it.
12:44 便说，我要回到我所出来我的屋里去。到了，就见里面空着，打扫干净，装饰好了。
Then it says, I will return to my house from which I came out. And it comes and finds it unoccupied, swept, and decorated.
12:45 于是去另带了七个比自己更恶的灵来，一同进去，住在那里。那人末后的景况，就比先前更坏了。这邪恶的世代，也要如此。
Then it goes and takes along with itself seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter in and settle down there. And the last state of that man becomes
worse than the first. Thus shall it be also with this evil generation.
12:46 耶稣还对群众说话的时候，看哪，祂的母亲和兄弟站在外面，要找祂说话。
While He was still speaking to the crowds, behold, His mother and His brothers stood outside seeking to speak to Him.
12:47 有人对祂说，看哪，你的母亲和兄弟站在外面，要找你说话。
And someone said to Him, Behold, Your mother and Your brothers are standing outside seeking to speak to You.
12:48 祂却回答那对祂说话的人说，谁是我的母亲？谁是我的弟兄？
But He answered and said to him who spoke to Him, Who is My mother, and who are My brothers?
12:49 就伸手指着门徒说，看哪，我的母亲，我的弟兄！
And stretching out His hand toward His disciples, He said, Behold, My mother and My brothers!
12:50 因为凡实行我在诸天之上父旨意的，就是我的弟兄、姊妹和母亲了。
For whoever does the will of My Father who is in the heavens, he is My brother and sister and mother.
马太福音 Matthew 第 13 章
13:1 那一天，耶稣从屋子里出来，坐在海边。
On that day Jesus went out of the house and sat beside the sea.
13:2 有好多群众聚集到祂那里，祂只得上船坐下，群众都站在岸上。
And great crowds were gathered to Him, so that He stepped into a boat and sat, and all the crowd stood on the shore.
13:3 祂就用比喻对他们讲许多事，说，看哪，那撒种的出去撒种。
And He spoke many things to them in parables, saying, Behold, the sower went out to sow.
13:4 撒的时候，有的落在路旁，飞鸟来吃尽了。
And as he sowed, some seeds fell beside the way, and the birds came and devoured them.
13:5 又有的落在土浅石头地上，土既不深，立刻发苗；
And others fell on the rocky places, where they did not have much earth, and immediately they sprang up because they had no depth of earth.
13:6 等日头一出来，就晒焦了，又因没有根，便枯干了。
But when the sun rose, they were scorched; and because they had no root, they withered.
13:7 还有的落在荆棘里，荆棘长起来，就把它挤住了。
And others fell on the thorns, and the thorns came up and choked them.
13:8 但有的落在好土里，就结果实，有的一百倍，有的六十倍，有的三十倍。
But others fell on the good earth and yielded fruit, one a hundredfold, and one sixtyfold, and one thirtyfold.
913
13:9 有耳可听的，就应当听。
He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
13:10 门徒进前来，对祂说，你对众人讲话，为什么用比喻？
And the disciples came and said to Him, Why do You speak in parables to them?
13:11 祂回答说，因为诸天之国的奥秘，只给你们知道，不给他们知道。
And He answered and said to them, Because to you it has been given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of the heavens, but to them it has not been given.
13:12 因为凡有的，还要给他，他就充盈有余；凡没有的，连他所有的，也要从他夺去。
For whoever has, it shall be given to him, and he will abound; but whoever does not have, even that which he has shall be taken away from him.
13:13 所以我用比喻对他们讲，因为他们看却看不见，听也听不见，也不领悟。
For this reason I speak to them in parables, because seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand.
13:14 在他们身上，应验了以赛亚的申言，说，“你们听是要听见，却绝不领悟；看是要看见，却绝看不透。
And in them the prophecy of Isaiah is being fulfilled, which says, "In hearing you shall hear and by no means understand, and seeing you shall see and by no
means perceive.
13:15 因为这百姓心蒙脂油，耳听不灵，眼睛闭着；恐怕他们眼睛看见，耳朵听见，心里领悟，回转过来，我就医治他们。”
For the heart of this people has become fat, and with their ears they have heard heavily, and their eyes they have closed, lest they perceive with their eyes and
hear with their ears and understand with their heart, and they turn around, and I will heal them.''
13:16 但你们的眼睛是有福的，因为看见了；你们的耳朵也是有福的，因为听见了。
But blessed are your eyes because they see, and your ears because they hear.
13:17 我实在告诉你们，曾经有许多申言者和义人，渴想要看你们所看的，却没有看见；要听你们所听的，却没有听见。
For truly I say to you that many prophets and righteous men have desired to perceive the things that you see, and have not perceived them, and to hear the
things that you hear, and have not heard them.
13:18 所以你们要听这撒种者的比喻。
You therefore hear the parable of the one who sowed.
13:19 凡听见国度之道不领悟的，那恶者就来，把撒在他心里的夺了去；这就是那撒在路旁的。
When anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand, the evil one comes and snatches away that which has been sown in his heart. This is the
one sown beside the way.
13:20 又有那撒在石头地上的，就是人听了道，立刻欢喜领受，
And the one sown on the rocky places, this is he who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy;
13:21 只因他里面没有根，不过是暂时的；一旦为道遭遇患难或逼迫，就立刻绊跌了。
Yet he does not have root in himself but lasts only for a time, and when affliction or persecution occurs because of the word, immediately he is stumbled.
13:22 还有那撒在荆棘里的，就是人听了道，后来有今世的思虑，和钱财的迷惑，把道全然挤住了，道就不能结实。
And the one sown in the thorns, this is he who hears the word, and the anxiety of the age and the deceitfulness of riches utterly choke the word, and it becomes
unfruitful.
13:23 但那撒在好土里的，就是人听了道，也领悟了，他就结出果实，有的结了一百倍，有的六十倍，有的三十倍。
But the one sown on the good earth, this is he who hears the word and understands, who by all means bears fruit and produces, one a hundredfold, and one
sixtyfold, and one thirtyfold.
13:24 耶稣在他们跟前另设一个比喻，说，诸天的国好比人撒好种在他的田里；
Another parable He set before them, saying, The kingdom of the heavens has become like a man sowing good seed in his field.
13:25 及至人们睡觉的时候，他的仇敌来了，将稗子撒在麦子中间，就走了。
But while the men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares in the midst of the wheat and went away.
13:26 到长苗吐穗的时候，稗子也显出来。
And when the blade sprouted and produced fruit, then the tares appeared also.
13:27 家主的奴仆就进前来对他说，主阿，你不是撒好种在你的田里么？从那里来的稗子？
And the slaves of the master of the house came and said to him, Sir, did you not sow good seed in your field? Where then did the tares come from?
13:28 他就对他们说，这是仇敌作的。奴仆就对他说，那么你要我们去薅集它们么？
And he said to them, An enemy has done this. And the slaves said to him, Do you want us then to go and collect them?
13:29 他就说，不，免得薅集稗子，连麦子也一齐带根薅出来。
But he said, No, lest while collecting the tares, you uproot the wheat along with them.
13:30 让这两样一齐长，直到收割。在收割的时候，我要对收割的人说，先薅集稗子，捆成捆，好把它们烧了，麦子却要收到我的仓里。
Let both grow together until the harvest, and at the time of the harvest I will say to the reapers, Collect first the tares and bind them into bundles to burn them up,
but the wheat gather into my barn.
13:31 耶稣在他们跟前另设一个比喻，说，诸天的国好像一粒芥菜种，有人拿去种在他的田里。
Another parable He set before them, saying, The kingdom of the heavens is like a mustard seed, which a man took and sowed in his field,
13:32 这乃是百种里最小的，但长起来，却比别的菜都大，且成了树，甚至天空的飞鸟来栖宿在它的枝上。
And which is smaller than all the seeds; but when it has grown, it is greater than the herbs and becomes a tree, so that the birds of heaven come and roost in its
branches.
13:33 祂对他们另讲一个比喻说，诸天的国好像面酵，有妇人拿去藏在三斗面里，直到全团都发了酵。
Another parable He spoke to them: The kingdom of the heavens is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal until the whole was
leavened.
13:34 耶稣用比喻对群众讲说这一切的事，若不用比喻，就不对他们说什么。
All these things Jesus spoke in parables to the crowds, and apart from a parable He spoke nothing to them,
13:35 这是要应验那借着申言者所说的，说，“我要开口用比喻，把创世以来所隐藏的事说出来。”
So that what was spoken through the prophet might be fulfilled, saying, "I will open My mouth in parables; I will utter things hidden from the foundation of the
world.''
13:36 当下，耶稣离开群众，进了屋里，祂的门徒到祂跟前来，说，请把田间稗子的比喻，给我们讲解清楚。
Then, leaving the crowds, He went into the house. And His disciples came to Him, saying, Make the parable of the tares of the field clear to us.
914
13:37 祂就回答说，那撒好种的就是人子，
And He answered and said, He who sows the good seed is the Son of Man;
13:38 田地就是世界，好种就是国度之子，稗子就是恶者之子，
And the field is the world; and the good seed, these are the sons of the kingdom; and the tares are the sons of the evil one;
13:39 撒稗子的仇敌就是魔鬼，收割的时候就是这世代的终结，收割的人就是天使。
And the enemy who sowed them is the devil; and the harvest is the consummation of the age; and the reapers are angels.
13:40 所以稗子怎样被薅集，且被火焚烧，在这世代的终结，也要如此。
Therefore just as the tares are collected and burned up with fire, so will it be at the consummation of the age.
13:41 人子要差遣祂的使者，从祂的国里薅集一切绊跌人的事，和行不法的人，
The Son of Man will send His angels, and they will collect out of His kingdom all the stumbling blocks and those who practice lawlessness,
13:42 且要把他们丢到火炉里，在那里必要哀哭切齿了。
And will cast them into the furnace of fire. In that place there will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
13:43 那时，义人在他们父的国里，要发光如同太阳。有耳可听的，就应当听。
Then the righteous will shine forth like the sun in the kingdom of their Father. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
13:44 诸天的国好像宝贝藏在田地里，人找到了，就藏起来，欢欢喜喜的去变卖他一切所有的，买这田地。
The kingdom of the heavens is like a treasure hidden in the field, which a man found and hid, and in his joy goes and sells all that he has, and buys that field.
13:45 诸天的国又好像一个商人，寻找好珠子，
Again, the kingdom of the heavens is like a merchant seeking fine pearls;
13:46 寻到一颗珍贵的珠子，就去变卖他一切所有的，买了这珠子。
And finding one pearl of great value, he went and sold all that he had and bought it.
13:47 还有，诸天的国好像网撒在海里，聚拢各样的水族。
Again, the kingdom of the heavens is like a net cast into the sea and gathering from every species,
13:48 网既满了，人就拉上岸来，坐下，把好的收到器皿里，坏的丢到外面去。
Which, when it was filled, they brought onto the shore, and sat down and collected the good into vessels; but the foul they cast out.
13:49 在这世代的终结，也要如此：天使要出来，把恶人从义人中间分别出来，
So it will be at the consummation of the age: the angels will go forth and separate the evil from the midst of the righteous,
13:50 且要把他们丢到火炉里，在那里必要哀哭切齿了。
And will cast them into the furnace of fire. In that place there will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
13:51 这一切的事，你们都领悟了么？他们对祂说，是的。
Have you understood all these things? They said to Him, Yes.
13:52 祂又对他们说，因此，凡经学家作诸天之国门徒的，就像一个作家主的人，从他库里拿出新旧的东西来。
And He said to them, For this reason every scribe discipled to the kingdom of the heavens is like a householder who brings forth out of his treasure things new
and old.
13:53 耶稣说完了这些比喻，就离开那里，
And when Jesus had finished these parables, He departed from there.
13:54 来到自己的家乡，在他们的会堂里教训他们，以致他们都惊讶说，这人的智慧和异能，是从那里来的？
And He came into His own country and taught them in their synagogue, so that they were astounded and said, Where did this man get this wisdom and these
works of power?
13:55 这不是那木匠的儿子么？祂母亲不是叫马利亚么？祂兄弟们不是雅各、约西、西门和犹大么？
Is not this the carpenter's son? Is not His mother called Mary, and His brothers James and Joseph and Simon and Judas?
13:56 祂妹妹们不也都在我们这里么？祂这一切是从那里来的？
And His sisters, are they not all with us? Where then did this man get all these things?
13:57 他们就因祂绊跌。但耶稣对他们说，申言者除了在本地本家之外，没有不被人尊敬的。
And they were stumbled because of Him. But Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor except in his own country and in his own house.
13:58 因为他们不信，祂就不在那里多行异能了。
And He did not do many works of power there because of their unbelief.
马太福音 Matthew 第 14 章
14:1 那时分封的王希律听见耶稣的名声，
At that time Herod the tetrarch heard the report concerning Jesus,
14:2 就对臣仆说，这是施浸者约翰从死人中复活了，所以这些异能发显在他身上。
And he said to his servants, This is John the Baptist; he has been raised from the dead, and because of this these works of power are operating through him.
14:3 原来希律为他兄弟腓力的妻子希罗底的缘故，把约翰拿住，捆锁起来，关藏在监里。
For Herod had seized John and bound him and put him in prison on account of Herodias, the wife of Philip his brother.
14:4 因为约翰曾对他说，你不可娶这妇人。
For John had been saying to him, It is not lawful for you to have her.
14:5 希律想要杀他，只是怕群众，因他们都以约翰为申言者。
And though he desired to kill him, he feared the crowd because they held him as a prophet.
14:6 到了希律的生日，希罗底的女儿在众人中间跳舞，使希律欢喜。
But when Herod's birthday came, the daughter of Herodias danced in their midst and pleased Herod;
14:7 因此希律就起誓，应许她无论求什么都给她。
Hence, he promised with an oath to give her whatever she asked.
14:8 她受她母亲唆使，就说，请把施浸者约翰的头，放在盘子上给我。
And she, being instigated by her mother, said, Give me here on a platter the head of John the Baptist.
915
14:9 王虽忧愁，但因所起的誓，又因同席的人，就吩咐给她。
And the king was grieved, yet because of the oaths and those reclining at table with him, he commanded it to be given.
14:10 于是打发人去，在监里斩了约翰，
And he sent men and beheaded John in the prison.
14:11 把他的头放在盘子上，拿来给闺女，她就拿去给她母亲。
And his head was brought on a platter and given to the girl, and she brought it to her mother.
14:12 约翰的门徒进前来，把尸体领去，埋葬了，就去报告耶稣。
And his disciples came and took the corpse and buried it; and they came and reported the matter to Jesus.
14:13 耶稣听见，就上船，从那里独自退到野地去。群众听见，就从各城步行跟随祂。
And when Jesus heard this, He withdrew from there in a boat to a deserted place privately. And when the crowds heard of it, they followed Him on foot from the
cities.
14:14 耶稣出来，看见大批的群众，就对他们动了慈心，治好了他们的病人。
And going forth, He saw a great crowd, and He was moved with compassion for them and healed their sick.
14:15 到了黄昏，门徒到祂跟前来，说，这是野地，时候已经晚了，请解散这些群众，他们好往村子里去，为自己买食物。
Now when evening fell, the disciples came to Him, saying, This place is deserted and the hour is already late. Send the crowds away that they may go into the
villages and buy food for themselves.
14:16 耶稣却对他们说，不用他们去，你们给他们吃吧。
But Jesus said to them, They do not need to go away. You give them something to eat.
14:17 他们就对祂说，我们这里除了五个饼两条鱼，再没有别的。
And they said to Him, We do not have anything here except five loaves and two fish.
14:18 祂就说，拿过来给我。
And He said, Bring them here to Me.
14:19 于是吩咐群众坐在草地上，就拿着五个饼两条鱼，望着天祝福，擘开饼，递给门徒，门徒便递给群众。
And after commanding the crowds to recline on the grass, He took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to heaven, He blessed and broke the loaves
and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples to the crowds.
14:20 众人都吃，并且吃饱了。他们拾起剩下的零碎，装满了十二篮子。
And they all ate and were satisfied. And they took up what was left over of the broken pieces, twelve handbaskets full.
14:21 吃的人，除了妇女孩子，约有五千。
And those who ate were about five thousand men, apart from women and children.
14:22 耶稣随即催门徒上船，在祂以先到对岸去，等祂解散群众。
And immediately He compelled the disciples to step into the boat and to go before Him to the other side, while He sent the crowds away.
14:23 既解散了群众，祂就独自上山去祷告。到了晚上，只有祂单独在那里。
And after He sent the crowds away, He went up to the mountain privately to pray. And when night fell, He was there alone.
14:24 这时船在海中，因风不顺，被浪折磨。
Now the boat was already in the midst of the sea, being battered by the waves, for the wind was contrary.
14:25 夜里四更天，祂在海上向他们走去。
And in the fourth watch of the night He came to them, walking on the sea.
14:26 门徒看见祂在海上走，就惊慌，说，这是个鬼怪！由于惧怕，便喊叫起来。
And the disciples, seeing Him walking on the sea, were startled, saying, It is a ghost! And they cried out for fear.
14:27 耶稣连忙对他们说，放心，是我，不要怕。
But immediately Jesus talked to them, saying, Take courage. It is I. Do not be afraid.
14:28 彼得回答说，主，若是你，请吩咐我从水上到你那里去。
And Peter answered Him and said, Lord, if it is You, command me to come to You on the water.
14:29 祂就说，来吧。彼得就从船上下去，在水上向耶稣走去。
And He said, Come. And Peter, coming down from the boat, walked on the water and came toward Jesus.
14:30 只因见风甚大，就害怕，将要沉下去，便喊着说，主阿，救我！
But seeing the strong wind, he became frightened; and as he began to sink, he cried out, saying, Lord, save me!
14:31 耶稣赶紧伸手拉住他，对他说，小信的人哪，为什么疑惑？
And immediately Jesus stretched out His hand and took hold of him and said to him, You of little faith, why did you doubt?
14:32 他们上了船，风就止住了。
And when they got up into the boat, the wind ceased.
14:33 船上的人遂都拜祂说，你真是神的儿子。
And those who were in the boat worshipped Him, saying, Truly You are the Son of God.
14:34 他们既渡过去，就上了岸，来到革尼撒勒。
And they crossed over and came to land at Gennesaret.
14:35 那地方的人一认出是耶稣，就打发人到四周全境，把一切有病的带到祂那里，
And when the men of that place recognized Him, they sent word into all that surrounding region and brought to Him all who were ill.
14:36 求祂让他们只摸祂的衣服穗子，凡摸着的，都完全得了拯救。
And they begged Him that they might only touch the fringe of His garment. And as many as touched were completely healed.
马太福音 Matthew 第 15 章
15:1 那时，有法利赛人和经学家从耶路撒冷来到耶稣跟前，说，
Then some Pharisees and scribes came to Jesus from Jerusalem, saying,
15:2 你的门徒为什么违犯古人的传统？因为他们吃饭的时候不洗手。
916
Why do Your disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat bread.
15:3 祂就回答他们说，你们为什么因着你们的传统，违犯神的诫命？
And He answered and said to them, Why do you also transgress the commandment of God because of your tradition?
15:4 原来神说，“当孝敬父母，”又说，“咒骂父母的，要被处死。”
For God said, "Honor your father and your mother,'' and, "He who speaks evil of father or mother, let him be put to death.''
15:5 你们倒说，无论谁对父母说，我所当供养你的，已经作了礼物，
But you say, Whoever says to his father or his mother, Whatever you would have been profited by me is now a gift to God,
15:6 他就可以不孝敬父母。这就是你们因着你们的传统，使神的话失去效力和权柄。
Shall by no means honor his father or his mother; and you have deprived the word of God of its authority because of your tradition.
15:7 假冒为善的人哪，以赛亚指着你们所申言的是对的；他说，
Hypocrites! Well has Isaiah prophesied concerning you, saying,
15:8 “这百姓用嘴唇尊敬我，心却远离我；
"This people honors Me with their lips, but their heart stays far away from Me;
15:9 他们敬拜我也是徒然，因为他们将人的吩咐当作教训教导人。”
But in vain do they worship Me, teaching as teachings the commandments of men.''
15:10 于是耶稣叫了群众来，对他们说，你们要听，也要领悟：
And He called the crowd to Him and said to them, Hear and understand:
15:11 入口的不能污秽人，出口的乃能污秽人。
It is not that which enters into the mouth that defiles the man; but that which proceeds out of the mouth, this defiles the man.
15:12 当时，门徒进前来，对祂说，法利赛人听见这话，被绊跌了，你知道么？
Then the disciples came and said to Him, Do You know that the Pharisees were stumbled when they heard this word?
15:13 祂就回答说，凡不是我天父所栽种的植物，必要连根拔出来。
And He answered and said, Every plant which My heavenly Father has not planted shall be rooted up.
15:14 任凭他们吧，他们是瞎子的瞎眼领路者；若是瞎子领瞎子，两个都要掉在坑里。
Let them be. They are blind guides of the blind; and if a blind man guides a blind man, both will fall into a pit.
15:15 彼得就回答祂说，请给我们讲讲这比喻。
And Peter answered and said to Him, Explain this parable to us.
15:16 祂就说，连你们到如今还不领悟么？
And He said, Are you also still without understanding?
15:17 岂不知凡入口的，是进到肚腹，又排泄到茅厕么？
Do you not understand that everything that goes into the mouth passes into the stomach and is expelled into the drain?
15:18 惟独出口的，是从心里发出来的，那才污秽人。
But the things which proceed out of the mouth come out of the heart, and those defile the man.
15:19 因为从心里发出恶念、凶杀、奸淫、淫乱、偷窃、假见证和谤讟，
For out of the heart come evil reasonings, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witnessings, blasphemies.
15:20 这些都是污秽人的；至于不洗手吃饭，却不污秽人。
These are the things which defile the man, but eating with unwashed hands does not defile the man.
15:21 耶稣离开那里，退到推罗、西顿的境内去。
And Jesus went from there and withdrew into the parts of Tyre and Sidon.
15:22 看哪，有一个迦南妇人从那地区出来，喊着说，主阿，大卫的子孙，可怜我！我女儿被鬼附得很苦。
And behold, a Canaanite woman came out from those borders and cried out, saying, Have mercy on me, Lord, Son of David! My daughter suffers terribly from
demon possession.
15:23 耶稣却一言不答。门徒就进前来，求祂说，请打发她走吧，因为她在我们后面直喊。
But He did not answer her a word. And His disciples came and implored Him, saying, Send her away, for she is crying out after us.
15:24 耶稣回答说，我奉差遣，不过是到以色列家迷失的羊那里去。
But He answered and said, I was not sent except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
15:25 那妇人来拜祂，说，主阿，帮助我！
But she came and worshipped Him, saying, Lord, help me!
15:26 祂回答说，不好拿儿女的饼丢给小狗。
But He answered and said, It is not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs.
15:27 妇人说，主阿，是的，就是小狗也吃主人桌子上掉下来的碎渣。
And she said, Yes, Lord, for even the little dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their masters' table.
15:28 于是耶稣回答她说，妇人，你的信心真大！照你所愿的给你成全吧。从那时候，她的女儿就得了医治。
Then Jesus answered and said to her, O woman, great is your faith! Be it done to you as you wish. And her daughter was healed from that hour.
15:29 耶稣遂离开那里，来到靠近加利利的海边，就上山，在那里坐下。
And Jesus departed from there and came beside the Sea of Galilee; and He went up to the mountain and sat there.
15:30 好多群众到祂跟前来，带着瘸子、瞎子、残废的、哑吧和好些别种病人，都放在祂的脚前，祂就治好了他们，
And great crowds came to Him, having with them the lame, the blind, the crippled, the dumb, and many other sick ones; and they laid them at His feet, and He
healed them,
15:31 以致群众都希奇，因看见哑吧说话，残废的痊愈，瘸子行走，瞎子看见；他们就荣耀以色列的神。
So that the crowd marveled, because they saw the dumb speaking, the crippled healthy and the lame walking, and the blind seeing. And they glorified the God
of Israel.
15:32 耶稣叫祂的门徒来，说，我对这群众动了慈心，因为他们同我在一起已经三天，也没有什么吃的了。我不愿意叫他们饿着散去，恐怕他们在路上困
乏。
And Jesus called His disciples to Him and said, I am moved with compassion for the crowd, because for three days now they have remained with Me and they
do not have anything to eat. And I am not willing to send them away hungry, lest they faint on the way.
917
15:33 门徒就对祂说，我们在这旷野，那里有这么多的饼，叫这么多的群众吃饱？
And the disciples said to Him, Where can we get so many loaves in this desolate place to satisfy so great a crowd?
15:34 耶稣对他们说，你们有多少饼？他们说，七个，和几条小鱼。
And Jesus said to them, How many loaves do you have? And they said, Seven, and a few small fish.
15:35 祂就吩咐群众坐在地上，
And after He commanded the crowd to recline on the ground,
15:36 拿着这七个饼和几条鱼，祝谢了，擘开，递给门徒，门徒又递给群众。
He took the seven loaves and the fish, and giving thanks, He broke them and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples to the crowds.
15:37 众人都吃，并且吃饱了。他们拾起剩下的零碎，装满了七筐子。
And they all ate and were satisfied. And they took up what was left over of the broken pieces, seven baskets full.
15:38 吃的人，除了妇女孩子，共有四千。
And those who ate were four thousand men, apart from women and children.
15:39 祂既解散了群众，就上船，来到马加丹的境界。
And after He sent the crowds away, He stepped into the boat and came to the borders of Magadan.
马太福音 Matthew 第 16 章
16:1 法利赛人和撒都该人进前来，试诱耶稣，求祂从天上显个神迹给他们看。
And the Pharisees and Sadducees came, and testing Him asked Him to show them a sign out of heaven.
16:2 耶稣就回答他们说，黄昏到了，你们说，天要晴，因为天发红；
But He answered and said to them, When evening falls, you say, There will be fair weather, for the sky is red;
16:3 在早晨，你们说，今天要有风雨，因为天发红，变阴暗。你们知道分辨天色，倒不能分辨这时期的神迹。
And in the morning, It will be stormy today, for the sky is red and gloomy. The face of the sky you know how to discern, but you cannot discern the signs of the
times.
16:4 邪恶淫乱的世代寻求神迹，除了约拿的神迹以外，再没有神迹给它。耶稣就撇开他们走了。
An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and a sign shall not be given to it, except the sign of Jonah. And He left them and went away.
16:5 门徒来到对岸，忘了带饼。
And when the disciples came to the other side, they had forgotten to take bread.
16:6 耶稣对他们说，你们要当心，提防法利赛人和撒都该人的酵。
And Jesus said to them, Watch and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
16:7 门徒就彼此议论说，这是因为我们没有带饼吧。
But they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we did not take bread.
16:8 耶稣知道了，就说，小信的人哪，为什么因为没有饼就彼此议论？
And Jesus, knowing it, said, Why are you reasoning among yourselves, you of little faith, because you have no bread?
16:9 你们还不明白么？不记得那分给五千人的五个饼，和你们拾取了多少篮子？
Do you not yet understand nor remember the five loaves of the five thousand and how many handbaskets you took up?
16:10 也不记得那分给四千人的七个饼，和你们拾取了多少筐子？
Nor the seven loaves of the four thousand and how many baskets you took up?
16:11 你们怎么不明白？我对你们所说的，不是指着饼，乃是指着要提防法利赛人和撒都该人的酵。
How is it that you do not understand that it was not about bread that I spoke to you? But beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
16:12 门徒这才领悟祂所说的，不是叫他们提防饼的酵，乃是叫他们提防法利赛人和撒都该人的教训。
Then they understood that He did not say to beware of the leaven of bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
16:13 耶稣到了该撒利亚腓立比的境内，就问祂的门徒说，人说人子是谁？
Now when Jesus came into the parts of Caesarea Philippi, He asked His disciples, saying, Who do men say that the Son of Man is?
16:14 他们说，有人说是施浸者约翰，另有人说是以利亚，还有人说是耶利米，或申言者中的一位。
And they said, Some, John the Baptist; and others, Elijah; and still others, Jeremiah or one of the prophets.
16:15 祂对他们说，你们说我是谁？
He said to them, But you, who do you say that I am?
16:16 西门彼得回答说，你是基督，是活神的儿子。
And Simon Peter answered and said, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.
16:17 耶稣回答他说，西门巴约拿，你是有福的，因为不是血肉之人启示了你，乃是我在诸天之上的父启示了你。
And Jesus answered and said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjona, because flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but My Father who is in the heavens.
16:18 我还告诉你，你是彼得，我要把我的召会建造在这磐石上，阴间的门不能胜过她。
And I also say to you that you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build My church, and the gates of Hades shall not prevail against it.
16:19 我要把诸天之国的钥匙给你，凡你在地上捆绑的，必是在诸天之上已经捆绑的；凡你在地上释放的，必是在诸天之上已经释放的。
I will give to you the keys of the kingdom of the heavens, and whatever you bind on the earth shall have been bound in the heavens, and whatever you loose on
the earth shall have been loosed in the heavens.
16:20 于是耶稣嘱咐门徒，不可对人说祂是基督。
Then He charged the disciples not to tell anyone that He was the Christ.
16:21 从那时候，耶稣才指示祂的门徒，祂必须往耶路撒冷去，受长老、祭司长和经学家许多的苦，并且被杀，第三日复活。
From that time Jesus began to show to His disciples that He must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes and be
killed and on the third day be raised.
16:22 彼得就拉祂到一边，责劝祂说，主阿，神眷怜你，这事绝不会临到你。
And Peter took Him aside and began to rebuke Him, saying, God be merciful to You, Lord! This shall by no means happen to You!
16:23 祂却转过来，对彼得说，撒但，退我后面去吧！你是绊跌我的，因为你不思念神的事，只思念人的事。
918
But He turned and said to Peter, Get behind Me, Satan! You are a stumbling block to Me, for you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things
of men.
16:24 于是耶稣对门徒说，若有人要跟从我，就当否认己，背起他的十字架，并跟从我。
Then Jesus said to His disciples, If anyone wants to come after Me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow Me.
16:25 因为凡要救自己魂生命的，必丧失魂生命；凡为我丧失自己魂生命的，必得着魂生命。
For whoever wants to save his soul-life shall lose it; but whoever loses his soul-life for My sake shall find it.
16:26 人若赚得全世界，却赔上自己的魂生命，有什么益处？人还能拿什么换自己的魂生命？
For what shall a man be profited if he gains the whole world, but forfeits his soul-life? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul-life?
16:27 因为人子要在祂父的荣耀里，同着众天使来临，那时祂要照各人的行为报应各人。
For the Son of Man is to come in the glory of His Father with His angels, and then He will repay each man according to his doings.
16:28 我实在告诉你们，站在这里的，有人还没有尝到死味，必看见人子在祂的国里来临。
Truly I say to you, There are some of those standing here who shall by no means taste death until they see the Son of Man coming in His kingdom.
马太福音 Matthew 第 17 章
17:1 过了六天，耶稣带着彼得、雅各、和雅各的兄弟约翰，暗暗的领他们上了高山，
And after six days Jesus took with Him Peter and James and John his brother, and brought them up to a high mountain privately.
17:2 就在他们面前变了形像，脸面发光如日头，衣服变白如光。
And He was transfigured before them, and His face shone like the sun, and His garments became as white as the light.
17:3 看哪，有摩西和以利亚向他们显现，同耶稣谈话。
And behold, Moses and Elijah appeared to them, conversing with Him.
17:4 彼得对耶稣说，主阿，我们在这里真好；你若愿意，我就在这里搭三座帐棚，一座为你，一座为摩西，一座为以利亚。
And Peter answered and said to Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here; if You are willing, I will make three tents here, one for You and one for Moses and one for
Elijah.
17:5 他还说话的时候，看哪，有一朵光明的云彩遮盖他们；看哪，又有声音从云彩里出来，说，这是我的爱子，我所喜悦的，你们要听祂。
While he was still speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and behold, a voice out of the cloud, saying, This is My Son, the Beloved, in whom I have
found My delight. Hear Him!
17:6 门徒听见，就面伏于地，极其害怕。
And when the disciples heard this, they fell on their face and were greatly frightened.
17:7 耶稣进前来，摸他们说，起来，不要害怕。
And Jesus came to them and touched them and said, Arise, and do not be afraid.
17:8 他们举目不见一人，只见耶稣。
And when they lifted up their eyes, they saw no one except Jesus Himself alone.
17:9 他们下山的时候，耶稣吩咐他们说，人子还没有从死人中复活，你们不要将所看见的告诉人。
And as they were coming down from the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying, Tell the vision to no one until the Son of Man is raised from the dead.
17:10 门徒问祂说，那么，经学家为什么说，以利亚必须先来？
And the disciples asked Him, saying, Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?
17:11 祂回答说，以利亚固然要来，并要复兴万事；
And He answered and said, Elijah indeed is coming and will restore all things;
17:12 只是我告诉你们，以利亚已经来了，人却不认识他，反而任意待他；照样，人子也要受他们的苦害。
But I say to you that Elijah has already come; and they did not recognize him, but did with him the things they wished. So also the Son of Man is about to suffer by
them.
17:13 门徒这才领悟，祂是对他们说到施浸者约翰。
Then the disciples understood that He spoke to them concerning John the Baptist.
17:14 耶稣和门徒到了群众那里，有一个人到祂跟前来，向祂跪下说，
And when they came to the crowd, a man came to Him, falling on his knees before Him and saying,
17:15 主阿，可怜我的儿子！因他患癫痫病很苦，屡次跌在火里，屡次跌在水里。
Lord, have mercy on my son, for he has epilepsy and suffers terribly; for often he falls into the fire and often into the water.
17:16 我带他到你门徒那里，他们却不能治好他。
And I brought him to Your disciples, and they were not able to heal him.
17:17 耶稣回答说，唉，不信且悖谬的世代！我与你们同在要到几时？我忍耐你们要到几时？把他带到我这里来吧。
And Jesus answered and said, O unbelieving and perverted generation! How long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him here to Me.
17:18 耶稣斥责那鬼，鬼就从他身上出来；从那时候，孩子就好了。
And Jesus rebuked it, and the demon came out from him; and the boy was healed from that hour.
17:19 那时，门徒暗暗的到耶稣跟前来，说，我们为什么不能赶出那鬼？
Then the disciples, coming to Jesus privately, said, Why were we not able to cast it out?
17:20 耶稣对他们说，因为你们的信心小；我实在告诉你们，你们若有信心像一粒芥菜种，就是对这座山说，从这边挪到那边，它也必挪去；并且在你们
就没有一件事是不可能的。
And He said to them, Because of your little faith; for truly I say to you, If you have faith like a mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, Move from here to there,
and it will move; and nothing will be impossible to you.
17:21 至于这一类的鬼，若不祷告禁食，它就不出来。
But this kind does not go out except by prayer and fasting.
17:22 他们还聚集在加利利的时候，耶稣对他们说，人子将要被交在人手里，
And while they were gathering together in Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men,
17:23 他们要杀害祂，第三日祂要复活。门徒就极其忧愁。
919
And they will kill Him, and on the third day He will be raised. And they were greatly grieved.
17:24 他们到了迦百农，有收殿税的人前来对彼得说，你们的老师不纳殿税么？
And when they came to Capernaum, those who take up the temple tax came to Peter and said, Does not your Teacher pay the temple tax?
17:25 彼得说，纳。等他进了屋子，耶稣先向他说，西门，你怎么看？地上的君王向谁征收关税或丁税？向自己的儿子，还是向外人？
He said, Yes. And when he came into the house, Jesus anticipated him, saying, What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth receive custom
or poll tax, from their sons or from strangers?
17:26 彼得一说，向外人，耶稣就对他说，既然如此，儿子就可以免了。
And when he said, From strangers, Jesus said to him, So then the sons are free.
17:27 但为免绊跌他们，你要到海边去钓鱼，拿起先钓上来的鱼，开它的口，就必找到一块钱，可以拿去给他们，作你我的殿税。
But that we do not stumble them, go to the sea and cast a hook, and take the first fish that comes up. And when you open its mouth, you will find a stater; take
that and give it to them for Me and you.
马太福音 Matthew 第 18 章
18:1 当时，门徒到耶稣跟前来，说，谁在诸天的国里是最大的？
In that hour the disciples came to Jesus, saying, Who then is greatest in the kingdom of the heavens?
18:2 耶稣便叫一个小孩子来，站在他们中间，说，
And He called a little child to Him and stood him in their midst
18:3 我实在告诉你们，你们若不回转，变成像小孩子一样，绝不能进诸天的国。
And said, Truly I say to you, Unless you turn and become like little children, you shall by no means enter into the kingdom of the heavens.
18:4 所以凡降卑自己像这小孩子的，这人在诸天的国里就是最大的。
He therefore who will humble himself like this little child, he is the greatest in the kingdom of the heavens.
18:5 凡因我的名，接待一个这样小孩子的，就是接待我。
And whoever receives one such little child because of My name, receives Me;
18:6 凡绊跌一个信入我的小子的，倒不如把大磨石挂在他的脖子上，沉没在深海里。
And whoever stumbles one of these little ones who believe into Me, it is more profitable for him that a great millstone be hung around his neck and he be
drowned in the open sea.
18:7 世界因着绊跌人的事有祸了；绊跌人的事是免不了的，但那绊跌人的有祸了。
Woe to the world because of stumbling blocks! For it is necessary for stumbling blocks to come, but woe to that man through whom the stumbling block comes.
18:8 若是你的手或你的脚绊跌你，就把它砍下来扔掉；你残废或瘸腿进入生命，比有两手两脚被扔在永火里更好。
If your hand or your foot stumbles you, cut it off and cast it from you; it is better for you to enter into life maimed or lame than to have two hands or two feet and
be cast into the eternal fire.
18:9 若是你的眼绊跌你，就把它剜出来扔掉；你只有一只眼进入生命，比有两只眼被扔在火坑里更好。
And if your eye stumbles you, pluck it out and cast it from you; it is better for you to enter into life with one eye than to have two eyes and be cast into the
Gehenna of fire.
18:10 你们要当心，不可轻看这小子里的一个。我告诉你们，他们的使者在诸天之上，常见我在诸天之上父的面。
See that you do not despise one of these little ones, for I say to you that their angels in the heavens continually behold the face of My Father who is in the heavens.
18:11 因为人子来，是要拯救失丧的人。
For the Son of Man has come to save that which is lost.
18:12 你们怎么看？一个人若有一百只羊，其中一只走迷了路，他岂不把这九十九只撇在山上，去找那迷路的么？
What do you think? If any man has a hundred sheep and one of them goes astray, will he not leave the ninety-nine on the mountains and go and seek the one
that has gone astray?
18:13 若是找着了，我实在告诉你们，他为这一只欢喜，比为那没有迷路的九十九只欢喜还大。
And if it so happens that he finds it, truly I say to you that he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine which have not gone astray.
18:14 照样，你们在诸天之上的父，也不愿这小子里失丧一个。
In the same way, it is not the will of your Father who is in the heavens that one of these little ones perish.
18:15 再者，若是你的弟兄犯罪得罪你，你要去，只在你和他之间指出他的过错。他若听你，你就得着了你的弟兄。
Moreover if your brother sins against you, go, reprove him between you and him alone. If he hears you, you have gained your brother.
18:16 他若不听，你就另带一两个人同去，要凭两三个见证人的口，句句都可定准。
But if he does not hear you, take with you one or two more, that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established.
18:17 他若不听他们，就告诉召会；他若连召会也不听，就把他当作外邦人和税吏。
And if he refuses to hear them, tell it to the church; and if he refuses to hear the church also, let him be to you just like the Gentile and the tax collector.
18:18 我实在告诉你们，凡你们在地上捆绑的，必是在诸天之上已经捆绑的；凡你们在地上释放的，必是在诸天之上已经释放的。
Truly I say to you, Whatever you bind on the earth shall have been bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on the earth shall have been loosed in heaven.
18:19 我又实在告诉你们，你们中间若有两个人在地上，在他们所求的任何事上和谐一致，他们无论求什么，都必从我在诸天之上的父，得着成全。
Again, truly I say to you that if two of you are in harmony on earth concerning any matter for which they ask, it will be done for them from My Father who is in the
heavens.
18:20 因为无论在那里，有两三个人被聚集到我的名里，那里就有我在他们中间。
For where there are two or three gathered into My name, there am I in their midst.
18:21 那时，彼得进前来，对耶稣说，主阿，我的弟兄得罪我，我当赦免他几次？到七次么？
Then Peter came and said to Him, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? Up to seven times?
18:22 耶稣对他说，我不是对你说到七次，乃是到七十个七次。
Jesus said to him, I do not say to you, Up to seven times, but, Up to seventy times seven.
18:23 因此，诸天的国好比一个作君王的人，要和他的奴仆算账。
For this reason the kingdom of the heavens has become like a king who desired to settle accounts with his slaves.
920
18:24 才算的时候，有人带了一个欠一万他连得银子的来。
And when he began to settle them, one who owed him ten thousand talents was brought to him.
18:25 因为他没有什么可偿还的，主人吩咐把他和他的妻子儿女，并一切所有的都卖了来偿还。
But since he did not have the means to repay, the master commanded him to be sold, as well as his wife and children and all that he had, and repayment to be
made.
18:26 那奴仆就俯伏拜他，说，宽容我，将来我都要还清。
Then the slave fell down and worshipped him, saying, Be patient with me and I will repay you all.
18:27 那奴仆的主人就动了慈心，把他释放，并且免了他的债。
And the master of that slave was moved with compassion and released him and forgave him the loan.
18:28 但那奴仆出来，遇见一个和他同作奴仆的，欠他一百银币，便揪住他，掐住他的喉咙，说，你所欠的，都要偿还。
But that slave went out and found one of his fellow slaves who owed him a hundred denarii, and he took hold of him and began to choke him, saying, Repay me
what you owe.
18:29 那和他同作奴仆的，俯伏央求他说，宽容我，将来我必还你。
Then his fellow slave fell down and begged him, saying, Be patient with me and I will repay you.
18:30 他却不肯，竟去把他下在监里，等他还清所欠的债。
But he would not; instead, he went away and threw him into prison until he would repay what was owed.
18:31 那些和他同作奴仆的，看见所发生的事，就甚忧愁，去把一切所发生的事，都完全告诉他们的主人。
Then his fellow slaves, seeing what had taken place, were greatly grieved and came and explained fully to their master all that had taken place.
18:32 于是主人把他叫来，对他说，你这恶仆，因你央求我，我就把你一切所欠的都免了；
Then his master called him to him and said to him, Evil slave, all that debt I forgave you, because you begged me.
18:33 你岂不应当怜悯和你同作奴仆的，像我怜悯你么？
Should you not also have had mercy on your fellow slave even as I had mercy on you?
18:34 主人就大怒，把他交给掌刑的，直到他还清了一切所欠的债。
And his master became angry and delivered him to the torturers until he would repay all that was owed.
18:35 你们各人若不从心里赦免你的弟兄，我天父也要这样待你们了。
So also will My heavenly Father do to you if each of you does not forgive his brother from your hearts.
马太福音 Matthew 第 19 章
19:1 耶稣说完了这些话，就离开加利利，来到犹太境内，约但河外。
And when Jesus finished these words, He departed from Galilee and came into the borders of Judea beyond the Jordan.
19:2 有好多群众跟着祂，祂就在那里治好了他们。
And great crowds followed Him, and He healed them there.
19:3 有法利赛人到耶稣跟前来，试诱祂，说，人因任何缘故，都可以休妻么？
And some Pharisees came to Him, testing Him and saying, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any cause?
19:4 祂就回答说，难道你们没有念过，那起初造人的，是造男造女，
And He answered and said, Have you not read that He who created them from the beginning made them male and female,
19:5 并且说，“为这缘故，人要离开父母，与妻子联合，二人成为一体”么？
And said, "For this cause shall a man leave his father and his mother and shall be joined to his wife; and the two shall be one flesh''?
19:6 这样，他们不再是两个，乃是一个肉身了。所以神所配偶的，人不可分开。
So then they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore what God has yoked together, let man not separate.
19:7 法利赛人对祂说，这样，摩西为什么吩咐给妻子休书，并休她呢？
They said to Him, Why then did Moses command us to give her a certificate of divorce and divorce her?
19:8 祂对他们说，摩西因为你们的心硬，才准你们休妻，但从起初并不是这样。
He said to them, Moses, because of your hardness of heart, allowed you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it has not been so.
19:9 我告诉你们，凡休妻另娶的，若不是因淫乱的缘故，就是犯奸淫；有人娶那被休的妇人，也是犯奸淫。
But I say to you that whoever divorces his wife, except for fornication, and marries another, commits adultery; and he who marries her who has been divorced
commits adultery.
19:10 门徒对祂说，人和妻子的事既是这样，倒不如不结婚。
His disciples said to Him, If the case of the man with his wife is like this, it is not profitable to marry.
19:11 祂就对他们说，这话不是众人都能接受的，惟独赐给谁，谁才能接受。
And He said to them, Not all men can accept this word, but only those to whom it has been given.
19:12 因为有的阉人从母腹生来就是这样，也有的阉人是被人阉的，并有的阉人是为诸天之国的缘故自阉的。那能接受的，就让他接受。
For there are eunuchs who were born so from their mother's womb, and there are eunuchs who were made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who made
themselves eunuchs because of the kingdom of the heavens. He who can accept it, let him accept it.
19:13 那时，有人带着小孩子到耶稣那里，要祂为他们按手祷告，门徒就责备那些人。
Then little children were brought to Him that He might lay His hands on them and pray, but the disciples rebuked them.
19:14 耶稣却说，让小孩子到我这里来，不要禁止他们，因为诸天之国正是这等人的。
But Jesus said, Allow the little children and do not prevent them from coming to Me, for of such is the kingdom of the heavens.
19:15 祂给他们按了手，就从那里往前去。
And after He laid His hands on them, He went on from there.
19:16 看哪，有一个人到耶稣跟前来，说，夫子，我该作什么善事，才可以得永远的生命？
And behold, someone came to Him and said, Teacher, what good thing shall I do that I may have eternal life?
19:17 耶稣对他说，你为什么以善问我？只有一位是善的。你若要进入生命，就要遵守诫命。
And He said to him, Why do you ask Me concerning what is good? There is only One who is good. But if you want to enter into life, keep the commandments.
921
19:18 他对耶稣说，那些诫命？耶稣说，“不可杀人，不可奸淫，不可偷盗，不可作假见证，
He said to Him, Which ones? And Jesus said, "You shall not murder; you shall not commit adultery; you shall not steal; you shall not bear false witness;
19:19 当孝敬父母，又当爱邻舍如同自己。”
Honor your father and mother; and you shall love your neighbor as yourself.''
19:20 那青年人对祂说，这一切我都遵守了，还缺少什么？
The young man said to Him, All these things I have kept. What do I still lack?
19:21 耶稣对他说，你若想要完全，就要去变卖你的家业，分给穷人，就必有财宝在诸天之上，你还要来跟从我。
Jesus said to him, If you want to be perfect, go, sell your possessions and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in the heavens; and come, follow Me.
19:22 那青年人听见这话，就忧忧郁郁的走了，因为他有很多产业。
But the young man, hearing this word, went away sorrowing, for he had many possessions.
19:23 于是耶稣对门徒说，我实在告诉你们，财主进诸天的国是难的。
And Jesus said to His disciples, Truly I say to you, Only with difficulty will a rich man enter into the kingdom of the heavens.
19:24 我又告诉你们，骆驼穿过针的眼，比财主进神的国还容易。
And again I say to you, It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
19:25 门徒听见了，就极其惊讶，说，这样谁能得救？
And when the disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished and said, Who then can be saved?
19:26 耶稣看着他们说，在人这是不能的，在神凡事都能。
And looking upon them, Jesus said to them, With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.
19:27 彼得就回答祂说，看哪，我们已经撇下所有的跟从了你，这样，我们将来要得什么？
Then Peter answered and said to Him, Behold, we have left all and followed You. What then will there be for us?
19:28 耶稣就对他们说，我实在告诉你们，你们这些跟从过我的人，在复兴的时候，当人子坐在祂荣耀的宝座上，你们也要坐在十二个宝座上，审判以色
列十二个支派。
And Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you that you who have followed Me, in the restoration, when the Son of Man sits on the throne of His glory, you also shall sit
on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
19:29 凡为我的名撇下房屋、或是弟兄、姊妹、父亲、母亲、儿女、田地的，必要得着百倍，且要承受永远的生命。
And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or fields for My name's sake shall receive a hundred times as much and
shall inherit eternal life.
19:30 然而许多在前的将要在后，在后的将要在前。
But many first will be last, and many last first.
马太福音 Matthew 第 20 章
20:1 因为诸天的国好像一个作家主的人，清早出去，为他的葡萄园雇工人，
For the kingdom of the heavens is like a man, who is a householder, who went out early in the morning to hire workmen for his vineyard.
20:2 和工人讲定一天一个银币，就打发他们进他的葡萄园去。
And having agreed with the workmen for a denarius a day, he sent them into his vineyard.
20:3 约在上午九时，他又出去，看见市场上另有闲站的人，
And he went out about the third hour and saw others standing idle in the marketplace,
20:4 就对他们说，你们也进葡萄园去，所当给的，我必给你们。他们就去了。
And to those he said, You also go into the vineyard, and whatever is right I will give you. And they went.
20:5 约在正午和午后三时，他再出去，也是这样行。
And again he went out about the sixth and the ninth hour and did likewise.
20:6 约在午后五时，他出去，看见另有人站着，就对他们说，你们为什么整天在这里闲站？
And about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing, and said to them, Why have you been standing here all the day idle?
20:7 他们说，因为没有人雇我们。他说，你们也进葡萄园去。
They said to him, Because no one has hired us. He said to them, You also go into the vineyard.
20:8 到了黄昏，葡萄园的主人对管事的说，叫工人都来，给他们工钱，从后来的开始，直到先来的为止。
And when evening fell, the master of the vineyard said to his steward, Call the workmen and pay them their wages, beginning from the last ones to the first.
20:9 那些约在午后五时雇的来了，每个人都领了一个银币。
And when those hired about the eleventh hour came, they received each a denarius.
20:10 那些先雇的也来了，他们以为必要多领，但他们也是各领一个银币。
And when the first ones came, they supposed that they would receive more. And they themselves also received each a denarius.
20:11 他们领了之后，就埋怨家主说，
And when they received it, they murmured against the householder,
20:12 那些后来的作了一小时的工，你竟叫他们和我们这些整天劳苦受热的一样。
Saying, These last ones worked one hour, and you have made them equal to us who bore the burden of the day and the scorching heat.
20:13 家主回答他们其中的一个说，朋友，我没有对你不义。你不是与我讲定一个银币么？
But he answered one of them and said, Friend, I am doing nothing unrighteous to you. Did you not agree with me for a denarius?
20:14 拿你的走吧；我愿意给那后来的，正如给你的一样。
Take what is yours and go. I want to give to this last one even as I have given to you.
20:15 难道我不可随我的意思，用我的东西么？还是因为我慈善，你就眼红了么？
Is it not lawful for me to do what I wish with what is mine? Or is your eye evil because I am good?
20:16 这样，在后的将要在前，在前的将要在后了。
Thus shall the last be first and the first last.
20:17 耶稣上耶路撒冷去的时候，在路上暗暗的把十二个门徒带到一边，对他们说，
922
And as Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, He took the twelve disciples aside privately, and on the way He said to them,
20:18 看哪，我们上耶路撒冷去，人子要被交给祭司长和经学家，他们要定祂死罪，
Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes. And they will condemn Him to death,
20:19 又要把祂交给外邦人去戏弄，鞭打，并钉十字架，第三日祂必复活。
And deliver Him to the Gentiles to mock and to scourge and to crucify Him, and on the third day He will be raised.
20:20 那时，西庇太儿子的母亲，同她儿子们进前来拜耶稣，求祂一件事。
Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came to Him with her sons, worshipping and asking something of Him.
20:21 耶稣就对她说，你要什么？她说，请叫我这两个儿子在你国里，一个坐在你右边，一个坐在你左边。
And He said to her, What do you want? She said to Him, Say that these two sons of mine will sit, one on Your right and one on Your left, in Your kingdom.
20:22 耶稣回答说，你们不知道所求的是什么。我将要喝的杯，你们能喝么？他们说，我们能。
But Jesus answered and said to them, You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup which I am about to drink? They said to Him, We are
able.
20:23 耶稣说，我的杯你们必要喝，只是坐在我的左右，不是我可以赐的；乃是我父为谁预备的，就赐给谁。
He said to them, My cup you shall indeed drink, but to sit on My right and on My left, this is not Mine to give, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by
My Father.
20:24 那十个听见，就恼怒这两个兄弟。
And when the ten heard this, they were indignant concerning the two brothers.
20:25 于是耶稣叫了他们来，说，你们知道外邦人有君王为主治理他们，也有大臣操权管辖他们。
But Jesus called them to Him and said, You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and the great exercise authority over them.
20:26 但你们中间不是这样；反倒你们中间无论谁想要为大，就必作你们的仆役；
It shall not be so among you; but whoever wants to become great among you shall be your servant,
20:27 你们中间无论谁想要为首，就必作你们的奴仆。
And whoever wants to be first among you shall be your slave;
20:28 正如人子来，不是要受人的服事，乃是要服事人，并且要舍命，作多人的赎价。
Just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give His life as a ransom for many.
20:29 他们出耶利哥的时候，有大批群众跟着祂。
And as they were going out from Jericho, a great crowd followed Him.
20:30 看哪，有两个瞎子坐在路旁，听见耶稣经过，就喊着说，主阿，大卫的子孙，可怜我们吧！
And behold, two blind men sitting by the road, hearing that Jesus was passing by, cried out, saying, Have mercy on us, Lord, Son of David!
20:31 群众责备他们，叫他们安静，他们却越发喊着说，主阿，大卫的子孙，可怜我们吧！
And the crowd rebuked them so that they would be silent, but they cried out the more, saying, Have mercy on us, Lord, Son of David!
20:32 耶稣就站住，叫他们来，说，要我为你们作什么？
And Jesus, standing still, called them and said, What do you want Me to do for you?
20:33 他们说，主阿，要我们的眼睛得开。
They said to Him, Lord, that our eyes may be opened.
20:34 耶稣就动了慈心，把他们的眼睛一摸，他们立刻看见，就跟从了耶稣。
And Jesus, moved with compassion, touched their eyes, and immediately they received their sight and followed Him.
马太福音 Matthew 第 21 章
21:1 耶稣和门徒将近耶路撒冷，来到伯法其，橄榄山那里。
And when they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Bethphage at the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples,
21:2 耶稣就打发两个门徒，对他们说，你们往对面村子去，立刻就会看见一匹驴，带着驴驹拴着；你们解开，牵来给我。
Saying to them, Go into the village opposite you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied and a colt with her; untie them and lead them to Me.
21:3 若有人对你们说什么，你们就说，主需要它们；他必立刻打发它们来。
And if anyone says anything to you, you shall say, The Lord has need of them; and immediately he will send them.
21:4 这事成就，为要应验那借着申言者所说的，说，
Now this took place in order that what was spoken through the prophet might be fulfilled, saying,
21:5 “要对锡安的女儿说，看哪，你的王来到你这里，是温柔的，骑着驴，骑着驴驹，就是负重牲口的崽子。”
"Say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, your King is coming to you, meek and mounted on a donkey, and on a colt, a foal of a beast of burden.''
21:6 他们就去，照耶稣所吩咐他们的行，
And the disciples went and did as Jesus directed them,
21:7 牵了驴和驴驹来，把自己的衣服搭在上面，耶稣就骑上。
And led the donkey and the colt. And they put their garments on them, and He sat upon them.
21:8 群众多半把自己的衣服铺在路上，另有人从树上砍下枝子铺在路上。
And most of the crowd spread their own garments in the road, and others cut branches from the trees and spread them in the road.
21:9 前行后随的群众喊着说，和散那归与大卫的子孙！在主名里来的，是当受颂赞的！至高之处的和散那！
And the crowds who went before Him and those who followed cried out, saying, Hosanna to the Son of David! Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord!
Hosanna in the highest!
21:10 耶稣进了耶路撒冷，全城都震动了，说，这是谁？
And when He entered into Jerusalem, all the city was stirred, saying, Who is this?
21:11 群众说，这是从加利利拿撒勒来的申言者耶稣。
And the crowds said, This is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth of Galilee.
21:12 耶稣进了殿，赶出所有在殿里作买卖的人，推倒兑换银钱之人的桌子，和卖鸽子之人的凳子，
923
And Jesus entered into the temple and cast out all those who were selling and buying in the temple. And He overturned the tables of the money changers and
the seats of those who were selling the doves,
21:13 并且对他们说，经上记着，“我的殿必称为祷告的殿；”你们倒使它成为贼窝了。
And He said to them, It is written, "My house shall be called a house of prayer,'' but you are making it a den of robbers.
21:14 在殿里的瞎子和瘸子到祂跟前来，祂就治好了他们。
And the blind and the lame came to Him in the temple, and He healed them.
21:15 祭司长和经学家看见耶稣所行的奇事，并小孩子在殿里喊着说，和散那归与大卫的子孙，就甚恼怒，
But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonders that He did and the children who were crying out in the temple and saying, Hosanna to the Son of
David, they were indignant.
21:16 对祂说，这些人所说的，你听见了么？耶稣对他们说，是的；经上说，“从婴孩和吃奶的口中，你使赞美得以完全。”难道你们没有念过么？
And they said to Him, Do you hear what these are saying? And Jesus said to them, Yes. Have you never read, "Out of the mouth of infants and sucklings You
have perfected praise''?
21:17 于是撇开他们，出城到伯大尼去，在那里住宿。
And leaving them, He went out of the city to Bethany and lodged there.
21:18 早晨回城的时候，耶稣饿了；
Now in the morning as He returned to the city, He became hungry.
21:19 看见路旁一棵无花果树，就走到跟前，在树上找不着什么，不过有叶子；就对树说，你不再结果子，直到永远。那无花果树就立刻枯干了。
And seeing a fig tree on the way, He came to it and found nothing on it except leaves only. And He said to it, May there no longer be fruit from you forever! And
the fig tree was instantly dried up.
21:20 门徒看见了，便希奇说，这无花果树怎么立刻就枯干了？
And when the disciples saw this, they marveled, saying, How did the fig tree instantly dry up?
21:21 耶稣回答他们说，我实在告诉你们，你们若有信心，不疑惑，不但能行无花果树上所发生的事，就是对这座山说，你得挪开，投在海里，也必成就。
And Jesus answered and said to them, Truly I say to you, If you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what was done to the fig tree, but even if you say
to this mountain, Be taken up and cast into the sea, it will happen.
21:22 你们祷告，无论求什么，只要信，就必得着。
And all that you ask in prayer, if you believe, you will receive.
21:23 耶稣进了殿，正施教的时候，祭司长和民间的长老到祂跟前来，说，你仗着什么权柄作这些事？给你这权柄的是谁？
And when He came into the temple, the chief priests and elders of the people came to Him as He was teaching and said, By what authority do You do these
things? And who gave You this authority?
21:24 耶稣回答他们说，我也要问你们一句话，你们若告诉我，我就告诉你们，我仗着什么权柄作这些事。
And Jesus answered and said to them, I also will ask you one thing, which if you tell Me, I also will tell you by what authority I do these things.
21:25 约翰的浸是从那里来的？是从天上来的，还是从人来的？他们就彼此议论说，我们若说从天上来的，祂必对我们说，这样，你们为什么不信他？
The baptism of John, from where did it come, from heaven or from men? And they reasoned among themselves, saying, If we say, From heaven, He will say to us,
Why then did you not believe him?
21:26 若说从人来的，我们又怕群众，因为他们都以约翰为申言者。
But if we say, From men, we fear the crowd, for all hold John as a prophet.
21:27 于是回答耶稣说，我们不知道。耶稣也对他们说，我也不告诉你们，我仗着什么权柄作这些事。
And they answered Jesus and said, We do not know. He too said to them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.
21:28 你们怎么看？一个人有两个孩子，他来对大的说，孩子，你今天到葡萄园里去作工。
But what do you think? A man had two children. And he came to his first son and said, Child, go today and work in the vineyard.
21:29 他回答说，我不去；后来懊悔，就去了。
And he answered and said, I do not want to; yet later he regretted and went.
21:30 又来对另一个也这样说，他回答说，主阿，我去；却没有去。
And he came to the other and said likewise. And he answered and said, I will, sir; yet he did not go.
21:31 两个当中，那一个完成了父亲的心意？他们说，大的。耶稣对他们说，我实在告诉你们，税吏和娼妓要在你们以前进神的国。
Which of the two did the will of the father? They said, The first. Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you that the tax collectors and the harlots are going into the
kingdom of God before you.
21:32 因为约翰在义路中来到你们这里，你们不信他，税吏和娼妓倒信他。你们看见了，后来还是不悔改去信他。
For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him, but the tax collectors and the harlots believed him. And you, when you saw it, did
not later regret it to believe him.
21:33 你们听另一个比喻。有一个作家主的人，栽了一个葡萄园，四周围上篱笆，里面挖了一个压酒池，盖了一座楼，租给园户，就往外国去了。
Hear another parable. There was a man, a householder, who planted a vineyard and put a hedge around it, and dug a winepress in it, and built a tower; and he
leased it out to vinedressers and went abroad.
21:34 收果子的时候近了，他打发奴仆到园户那里去收果子。
And when the time to harvest the fruit drew near, he sent his slaves to the vinedressers to get his fruit.
21:35 园户拿住他的奴仆，打了一个，杀了一个，用石头打死一个。
And the vinedressers took his slaves and beat one, and killed another, and stoned another.
21:36 他又打发别的奴仆去，比先前更多，园户还是照样待他们。
Again, he sent some other slaves, more than the first, and they did likewise to them.
21:37 后来就打发他的儿子到他们那里去，心里说，他们必尊敬我的儿子。
Then later he sent to them his son, saying, They will respect my son.
21:38 不料，园户看见那儿子，就彼此说，这是承受产业的；来吧，我们杀了他，得他的产业。
But the vinedressers, when they saw the son, said among themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and take possession of his inheritance.
21:39 于是拿住他，推出葡萄园外杀了。
And they took him and cast him out of the vineyard and killed him.
21:40 这样，葡萄园的主人来到的时候，要怎样处治那些园户？
924
Therefore when the master of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those vinedressers?
21:41 他们说，他必凶恶的除灭那些恶人，将葡萄园另租给那按时候交果子的园户。
They said to Him, He will miserably destroy those evil men and will lease the vineyard to other vinedressers, who will give the fruit to him in their seasons.
21:42 耶稣对他们说，“匠人所弃的石头，已成了房角的头块石头；这是主所作的，在我们眼中看为希奇。”你们在经上从来没有念过么？
Jesus said to them, Have you never read in the Scriptures, "The stone which the builders rejected, this has become the head of the corner. This was from the Lord,
and it is marvelous in our eyes''?
21:43 所以我告诉你们，神的国必从你们夺去，赐给那能结果子的百姓。
Therefore I say to you that the kingdom of God shall be taken from you and shall be given to a nation producing its fruit.
21:44 那跌在这石头上的，必要跌碎；这石头掉在谁身上，就要把谁砸得粉碎，簸散如糠秕。
And he who falls on this stone shall be broken to pieces; but on whomever it falls, it shall crush him to powder and scatter him like chaff.
21:45 祭司长和法利赛人听了祂的比喻，就看出祂是指着他们说的；
And when the chief priests and the Pharisees heard His parables, they perceived that He was speaking concerning them.
21:46 于是想要捉拿祂，只是惧怕群众，因为群众以祂为申言者。
And though they sought to seize Him, they feared the crowds because they held Him as a prophet.
马太福音 Matthew 第 22 章
22:1 耶稣又用比喻对他们说，
And Jesus answered and spoke again in parables to them, saying,
22:2 诸天的国好比一个作王的人，为他儿子摆设婚筵。
The kingdom of the heavens has become like a king who prepared a wedding feast for his son.
22:3 他打发奴仆去召那些被召的人来赴婚筵，他们却不肯来。
And he sent his slaves to call those who had been called to the wedding feast, yet they would not come.
22:4 他又打发别的奴仆去，说，你们要告诉那些被召的：看哪，我的筵席已经预备好了，公牛和肥畜已经宰了，各样都齐备，请来赴婚筵。
Again, he sent other slaves, saying, Tell those who have been called, Behold, I have prepared my dinner: my oxen and my fatted cattle have been slain, and all
things are ready. Come to the wedding feast.
22:5 但那些人不理就走了；一个到田里去，一个作买卖去，
But they disregarded it and went off, one to his own field and another to his business,
22:6 其余的抓住他的奴仆，凌辱他们，把他们杀了。
And the rest took hold of his slaves, treated them shamefully, and killed them.
22:7 王就动怒，发兵除灭那些凶手，烧毁他们的城。
And the king became angry, and he sent his troops and destroyed those murderers and burned their city.
22:8 然后对奴仆说，婚筵已经齐备，只是所召的人不配。
Then he said to his slaves, The wedding feast is ready, but those who have been called were not worthy.
22:9 所以你们要往岔路口去，凡遇见的，都召来赴婚筵。
Go therefore to the crossroads, and as many as you find, call to the wedding feast.
22:10 那些奴仆就出去，到大路上，凡遇见的，不论善恶都聚集了来，婚筵上就满了坐席的。
And those slaves went out into the streets and gathered all whom they found, both evil and good, and the wedding feast was filled with those reclining at table.
22:11 王进来观看坐席的，见那里有一个没有穿婚筵礼服的，
But when the king came in to look at those reclining at table, he saw there a man who was not clothed with a wedding garment,
22:12 就对他说，朋友，你没有穿婚筵的礼服，是怎么进到这里来的？那人无言可答。
And he said to him, Friend, how did you come in here without a wedding garment? And he was speechless.
22:13 于是王对仆役说，把他的手脚捆起来，扔在外面黑暗里，在那里必要哀哭切齿了。
Then the king said to the servants, Bind his feet and hands, and cast him out into the outer darkness. In that place there will be the weeping and the gnashing of
teeth.
22:14 因为被召的多，选上的少。
For many are called but few are chosen.
22:15 当时，法利赛人去商议，怎样就着耶稣的话陷害祂。
Then the Pharisees went and took counsel how they might ensnare Him in His words.
22:16 于是打发他们的门徒，同希律党的人到耶稣那里，说，夫子，我们知道你是诚实的，并且诚诚实实教导神的道路，什么人你都不顾忌，因为你不看
人的外貌。
And they sent to Him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, Teacher, we know that You are true and that You teach the way of God in truth and do not fear
anyone, for You do not regard the person of men.
22:17 请告诉我们，你怎么看，纳税给该撒，可以不可以？
Tell us therefore, What do You think? Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar, or not?
22:18 耶稣看出他们的恶意，就说，假冒为善的人哪，为什么试诱我？
But Jesus, knowing their evil intent, said, Why do you tempt Me, hypocrites?
22:19 拿一个上税的钱给我看。他们就拿一个银币给祂。
Show Me the coin for the tribute. And they brought to Him a denarius.
22:20 耶稣说，这像和这号是谁的？
And He said to them, Whose is this image and inscription?
22:21 他们说，是该撒的。耶稣说，这样，把该撒的物归给该撒，把神的物归给神。
They said, Caesar's. Then He said to them, Render then the things that are Caesar's to Caesar and the things that are God's to God.
22:22 他们听见就希奇，便离开祂走了。
And when they heard this, they marveled. And they left Him and went away.
925
22:23 向来说没有复活的撒都该人，那一天到耶稣跟前来，问祂说，
On that day some Sadducees, who say that there is no resurrection, came to Him and questioned Him,
22:24 夫子，摩西说，人若死了，没有孩子，他的兄弟当继娶他的妻子，为哥哥立后。
Saying, Teacher, Moses said, If anyone dies and does not have children, his brother as next of kin shall marry his wife and raise up seed to his brother.
22:25 我们这里从前有兄弟七人。第一个娶了妻，死了，没有后裔，遗下妻子给兄弟。
Now there were seven brothers with us. And the first married and died, and having no seed, he left his wife to his brother;
22:26 第二、第三，直到第七个，都是如此。
Likewise also the second and the third until the seventh.
22:27 最后，那妇人也死了。
And last of all the woman died.
22:28 这样，在复活的时候，她是这七人中那一个的妻子？因为全都娶过她。
In the resurrection, then, whose wife will she be of the seven? For they all had her.
22:29 耶稣回答他们说，你们错了，因为不明白圣经，也不晓得神的大能。
And Jesus answered and said to them, You err, not knowing the Scriptures nor the power of God.
22:30 在复活的时候，人也不娶也不嫁，乃像天上的使者一样。
For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven.
22:31 关于死人复活，神向你们所说的，你们没有念过么？祂说，
But concerning the resurrection of the dead, have you not read that which was spoken to you by God, saying,
22:32 “我是亚伯拉罕的神，以撒的神，雅各的神。”神并不是死人的神，乃是活人的神。
"I am the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob''? He is not the God of the dead, but of the living.
22:33 群众听见了，就惊讶祂的教训。
And when the crowds heard this, they were astounded at His teaching.
22:34 法利赛人听见耶稣笼住了撒都该人的口，就聚集一起。
But the Pharisees, when they heard that He had muzzled the Sadducees, gathered themselves together.
22:35 他们中间有一个律法师，试诱耶稣，问祂说，
And one of them, a lawyer, asked Him a question, testing Him,
22:36 夫子，律法上那一条诫命最大？
Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law?
22:37 耶稣对他说，“你要全心、全魂并全心思，爱主你的神。”
And He said to him, "You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind.''
22:38 这是最大的，且是第一条诫命。
This is the great and first commandment.
22:39 其次也相仿：“要爱邻舍如同自己。”
And the second is like it: "You shall love your neighbor as yourself.''
22:40 一切律法和申言者的教训都系于这两条诫命。
On these two commandments hang all the Law and the Prophets.
22:41 法利赛人聚集的时候，耶稣问他们说，
Now while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus questioned them,
22:42 论到基督，你们怎么看？祂是谁的子孙？他们说，是大卫的。
Saying, What do you think concerning the Christ? Whose son is He? They said to Him, David's.
22:43 耶稣对他们说，这样，大卫在灵里怎么还称祂为主，说，
He said to them, How then does David in spirit call Him Lord, saying,
22:44 “主对我主说，你坐在我的右边，等我把你的仇敌，放在你的脚下？”
"The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at My right hand until I put Your enemies underneath Your feet''?
22:45 大卫既称祂为主，祂怎么又是大卫的子孙？
If then David calls Him Lord, how is He his son?
22:46 他们没有人能回答祂一句话；从那一天，再也没有任何人敢问祂什么了。
And no one was able to answer Him a word, nor did anyone from that day dare to question Him anymore.
马太福音 Matthew 第 23 章
23:1 那时，耶稣对群众和门徒讲论，说，
Then Jesus spoke to the crowds and to His disciples,
23:2 经学家和法利赛人是坐在摩西的位上，
Saying, The scribes and the Pharisees have seated themselves in Moses' seat;
23:3 所以，凡他们所告诉你们的，不论是什么，你们都要遵行、谨守；但不要照他们的行为去行，因为他们说而不行。
Therefore all that they tell you, do and keep; but do not do according to their works, for they say things and do not do them.
23:4 他们把沉重难担的担子捆起来，放在人的肩上，但自己连一个指头也不肯动。
And they bind burdens, heavy and hard to bear, and lay them on men's shoulders; but they themselves will not move them with their finger.
23:5 他们所作的一切事，都是为要给人看见；因为他们将佩戴的经文匣作宽了，衣繸也加长了；
And all their works they do to be seen by men, for they broaden their phylacteries and enlarge the fringes of their garments,
23:6 他们又喜爱筵席上的首座，并会堂里的高位，
And they love the place of honor at the dinners and the chief seats in the synagogues
23:7 且喜爱人在市场上问他们安，称他们为拉比。
And the salutations in the marketplaces and to be called by men, Rabbi.
926
23:8 但你们不要受拉比的称呼，因为只有一位是你们的夫子，你们都是弟兄；
But you, do not be called Rabbi, for One is your Teacher, and you are all brothers.
23:9 也不要称地上的人为父，因为只有一位是你们的父，就是那天上的；
And do not call anyone on earth your father, for One is your Father, He who is in the heavens.
23:10 也不要受师尊的称呼，因为只有一位是你们的师尊，就是基督。
Neither be called instructors, because One is your Instructor, the Christ.
23:11 你们中间谁为大，谁就要作你们的仆役。
And the greatest among you shall be your servant.
23:12 凡高抬自己的，必降为卑；降卑自己的，必升为高。
And he who will exalt himself shall be humbled, and he who will humble himself shall be exalted.
23:13 假冒为善的经学家和法利赛人，你们有祸了！因为你们在人面前，把诸天的国关了；你们自己不进去，也不让那些要进去的人进去。
But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you close off the kingdom of the heavens in the face of men; for you do not enter in yourselves, nor do you
allow those who are entering to enter.
23:14 假冒为善的经学家和法利赛人，你们有祸了！因为你们侵吞寡妇的家产，假意作很长的祷告，所以你们要受更重的刑罚。
But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you devour the widows' houses, even while for a pretense you make long prayers. For this reason you shall
receive greater judgment.
23:15 假冒为善的经学家和法利赛人，你们有祸了！因为你们走遍洋海陆地，叫一个人入教，既入了教，却使他成为火坑之子，比你们还加倍。
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you go about the sea and the dry land to make one proselyte; and when he becomes one, you make him
twice as much a son of Gehenna as yourselves.
23:16 瞎眼领路的，你们有祸了！你们说，凡指着殿起誓的，算不得什么；只是凡指着殿中金子起誓的，他就该谨守。
Woe to you, blind guides, who say, Whoever swears by the temple, it is nothing; but whoever swears by the gold of the temple, he is bound.
23:17 愚拙瞎眼的人，那个是更大的，是金子，还是叫金子成圣的殿？
Fools and blind men, which is greater, the gold or the temple which sanctifies the gold?
23:18 你们又说，凡指着坛起誓的，算不得什么；只是凡指着坛上礼物起誓的，他就该谨守。
And, Whoever swears by the altar, it is nothing; but whoever swears by the gift which is upon it, he is bound.
23:19 瞎眼的人，那个是更大的，是礼物，还是叫礼物成圣的坛？
Blind men, which is greater, the gift or the altar which sanctifies the gift?
23:20 所以指着坛起誓的，就是指着坛和坛上的一切起誓；
Therefore he who swears by the altar swears by it and by all the things upon it;
23:21 指着殿起誓的，就是指着殿和那住在殿中的起誓；
And he who swears by the temple swears by it and by Him who dwells in it;
23:22 指着天起誓的，就是指着神的宝座，和那坐在其上的起誓。
And he who swears by heaven swears by the throne of God and by Him who sits upon it.
23:23 假冒为善的经学家和法利赛人，你们有祸了！因为你们将薄荷、芹菜、茴香，献上十分之一，却撇开律法上更重的事，就是正义、怜悯、信实；这
些原是必须行的，那些也是不可撇开的。
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you give a tenth of the mint and the anise and the cummin, and have neglected the weightier matters of the
law -- justice and mercy and faithfulness. But these you should have done and not neglected the others.
23:24 瞎眼领路的，蠓虫你们就滤出来，骆驼你们倒吞下去。
Blind guides, who strain out the gnat but swallow the camel!
23:25 假冒为善的经学家和法利赛人，你们有祸了！因为你们洁净杯盘的外面，里面却盛满了勒索和放荡。
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you cleanse the outside of the cup and the dish, but inwardly they are full of extortion and self-indulgence.
23:26 瞎眼的法利赛人，你先洁净杯盘的里面，好叫外面也干净了。
Blind Pharisee, cleanse first the inside of the cup and the dish so that their outside also may become clean.
23:27 假冒为善的经学家和法利赛人，你们有祸了！因为你们好像粉饰的坟墓，外面显得美观，里面却满了死人的骨头，和一切的污秽。
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you resemble whitewashed graves, which outwardly appear beautiful but inwardly are full of dead men's
bones and all uncleanness.
23:28 你们也是如此，外面向人显出公义，里面却满了伪善和不法。
So you also outwardly appear righteous to men, but inwardly you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness.
23:29 假冒为善的经学家和法利赛人，你们有祸了！因为你们建造申言者的坟，修饰义人的墓，
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you build up the graves of the prophets and adorn the tombs of the righteous,
23:30 并说，若是我们在我们祖宗的日子，必不和他们一同流申言者的血。
And say, If we had been there in the days of our fathers, we would not have been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets.
23:31 这就是你们证明自己是杀害申言者之人的子孙了。
So then you testify against yourselves that you are the sons of those who murdered the prophets.
23:32 你们去充满你们祖宗的恶贯吧！
And you, fill up the measure of your fathers!
23:33 蛇类，毒蛇之种，你们怎能逃避火坑的审判？
Serpents! Brood of vipers! How shall you escape the judgment of Gehenna?
23:34 所以，我差遣申言者和智慧人并经学家到你们这里来，有的你们要杀害，要钉十字架，有的你们要在你们的会堂里鞭打，从这城追逼到那城；
Therefore, behold, I send to you prophets and wise men and scribes. Some of them you will kill and crucify, and some of them you will scourge in your
synagogues and persecute from city to city,
23:35 叫世上所流一切的义血，都归到你们身上，从义人亚伯的血起，直到你们在殿和坛中间，所杀巴拉加的儿子撒迦利亚的血为止。
So that upon you may come all the righteous blood shed on the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zachariah, son of Barachiah, whom you
murdered between the temple and the altar.
23:36 我实在告诉你们，这一切的罪都要归到这世代了。
Truly I say to you, All these things shall come upon this generation.
927
23:37 耶路撒冷阿，耶路撒冷阿，你常杀害申言者，又用石头打死那奉差遣到你这里来的。我多次愿意聚集你的儿女，好像母鸡把小鸡聚集在翅膀底下，
只是你们不愿意。
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her! How often I desired to gather your children together, the way a hen gathers
her brood under her wings, and you would not!
23:38 看哪，你们的家要成为荒场，留给你们。
Behold, your house is left to you desolate.
23:39 我告诉你们，从今以后，你们不得再见我，直等到你们说，在主名里来的，是当受颂赞的！
For I say to you, You shall by no means see Me from now on until you say, Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord.
马太福音 Matthew 第 24 章
24:1 耶稣从殿里出来，正走的时候，门徒进前来，把殿的建筑指给祂看。
And Jesus came out from the temple and was going away, and His disciples came to Him to show Him the buildings of the temple.
24:2 祂就对他们说，你们不是看见这一切么？我实在告诉你们，将来在这里，绝没有一块石头留在石头上，不被拆毁的。
But He answered and said to them, Do you not see all these things? Truly I say to you, There shall by no means be left here a stone upon a stone, which shall not
be thrown down.
24:3 耶稣在橄榄山上坐着，门徒暗暗的到祂跟前来，说，请告诉我们，什么时候会有这些事？你的来临和这世代的终结，有什么兆头？
And as He sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to Him privately, saying, Tell us, When will these things be? And what will be the sign of Your coming
and of the consummation of the age?
24:4 耶稣回答他们说，你们要谨慎，免得有人迷惑你们；
And Jesus answered and said to them, See that no one leads you astray.
24:5 因为将来要有许多人冒我的名来，说，我是基督，并且要迷惑许多人。
For many will come in My name, saying, I am the Christ, and they will lead many astray.
24:6 你们要听见打仗和打仗的风声；要当心，不要惊慌；因为这是必须发生的，只是末期还没有到。
And you will be hearing of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not alarmed, for it must happen; but the end is not yet.
24:7 民要起来攻打民，国要起来攻打国，到处必有饥荒、地震。
For nation will rise up against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; and there will be famines and earthquakes in various places.
24:8 这些都是产难的开始。
All these things are the beginning of birth pangs.
24:9 那时，人要把你们陷在患难里，也要杀害你们；你们又要因我的名，被万民恨恶。
Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and will kill you, and you will be hated by all the nations because of My name.
24:10 那时，有许多人要绊跌，也要彼此陷害，彼此恨恶；
And at that time many will be stumbled and will deliver up one another and will hate one another.
24:11 且有好些假申言者要起来，迷惑许多人。
And many false prophets will arise and will lead many astray.
24:12 只因不法的事增多，许多人的爱心就渐渐冷淡了。
And because lawlessness will be multiplied, the love of the many will grow cold.
24:13 惟有忍耐到底的，必然得救。
But he who has endured to the end, this one shall be saved.
24:14 这国度的福音要传遍天下，对万民作见证，然后末期才来到。
And this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in the whole inhabited earth for a testimony to all the nations, and then the end will come.
24:15 你们看见那借着申言者但以理所说，行毁坏的可憎之物站在圣地，（读这经的人需要会意，）
Therefore when you see the abomination of desolation, which was spoken of through Daniel the prophet, standing in the holy place (let him who reads
understand),
24:16 那时，在犹太的，要逃到山上；
Then let those in Judea flee to the mountains;
24:17 在房顶上的，不要下来拿家里的东西；
Let him who is on the housetop not come down to take the things out of his house;
24:18 在田地里的，也不要回去取衣服。
And let him who is in the field not turn back to take his garment.
24:19 当那些日子，怀孕的和乳养孩子的有祸了。
But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babies in those days.
24:20 你们要祷告，叫你们逃走的时候，不遇见冬天或安息日；
And pray that your flight may not be in winter, nor on a Sabbath,
24:21 因为那时必有大灾难，这样的灾难，就是从世界的起头直到如今，都未曾发生过，将来也绝不会发生。
For at that time there will be great tribulation, such as has not occurred from the beginning of the world until now, nor shall by any means ever occur.
24:22 那些日子若不削减，凡属肉体的人，没有一个会得救的；但因选民的缘故，那些日子必要削减。
And unless those days had been cut short, no flesh would be saved; but on account of the chosen, those days will be cut short.
24:23 那时，若有人对你们说，看哪，基督在这里！或说，基督在那里！你们不要信。
At that time if anyone says to you, Behold, here is the Christ! or, Here! do not believe it.
24:24 因为假基督和假申言者将要起来，显大神迹和大奇事；若是可能，连选民也要迷惑了。
For false Christs and false prophets will arise and will show great signs and wonders so as to lead astray, if possible, even the chosen.
24:25 看哪，我预先告诉你们了。
Behold, I have told you beforehand.
24:26 若是他们对你们说，看哪，基督在旷野里，你们不要出去；或说，看哪，基督在内室里，你们不要信。
928
Therefore if they say to you, Behold, He is in the wilderness, do not go forth; Behold, He is in the inner rooms, do not believe it.
24:27 闪电怎样从东边发出，直照到西边，人子来临也要这样。
For just as the lightning comes forth from the east and shines to the west, so will the coming of the Son of Man be.
24:28 尸首在那里，鹰也必聚在那里。
Wherever the corpse is, there will the vultures be gathered together.
24:29 那些日子的灾难一过去，日头就变黑了，月亮也不放光，众星要从天上坠落，天势都要震动。
And immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven, and the
powers of the heavens will be shaken.
24:30 那时，人子的兆头要显在天上，这地的各族都要哀哭；他们要看见人子，带着能力和大荣耀，驾着天上的云而来。
And at that time the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven, and then all the tribes of the land will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the
clouds of heaven with power and great glory.
24:31 祂要差遣天使，用号筒的大声，将祂的选民从四方，从诸天的这边到诸天的那边，都聚集了来。
And He will send His angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather His chosen together from the four winds, from one end of the heavens to the other end.
24:32 但是你们可以从无花果树学个比方：当树枝发嫩长叶的时候，你们就知道夏天近了；
But learn the parable from the fig tree: As soon as its branch has become tender and puts forth its leaves, you know that the summer is near.
24:33 照样，你们几时看见这一切的事，也该知道那夏天近了，正在门口了。
So also you, when you see all these things, know that it is near, at the doors.
24:34 我实在告诉你们，这一代还没有过去，这一切事都要发生。
Truly I say to you that this generation shall by no means pass away until all these things happen.
24:35 天地要过去，但我的话绝不能过去。
Heaven and earth will pass away, but My words shall by no means pass away.
24:36 至于那日子、那时辰，没有人知道，诸天之上的使者也不知道，子也不知道，惟独父知道。
But concerning that day and hour, no one knows, not even the angels of the heavens nor the Son, but the Father only.
24:37 挪亚的日子怎样，人子来临也要怎样。
For just as the days of Noah were, so will the coming of the Son of Man be.
24:38 因为就如在洪水以前的那些日子，人又吃又喝，又娶又嫁，直到挪亚进方舟的那日，
For as they were in those days before the flood, eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day in which Noah entered into the ark,
24:39 并不知道审判要来，直到洪水来了，把他们全都冲去；人子来临也要这样。
And they did not know that judgment was coming until the flood came and took all away, so also will the coming of the Son of Man be.
24:40 那时，两个人在田里，取去一个，撇下一个。
At that time two men will be in the field; one is taken and one is left.
24:41 两个女人在磨坊推磨，取去一个，撇下一个。
Two women will be grinding at the mill; one is taken and one is left.
24:42 所以你们要儆醒，因为不知道你们的主那一天要来。
Watch therefore, for you do not know on what day your Lord comes.
24:43 但你们要知道，家主若晓得贼在几更天要来，他就必儆醒，不容他的房屋被人挖透。
But know this, that if the householder had known in which watch the thief was coming, he would have watched and would not have allowed his house to be
broken into.
24:44 所以你们也要预备，因为在你们想不到的时辰，人子就来了。
For this reason you also be ready, because at an hour when you do not expect it, the Son of Man is coming.
24:45 这样，谁是那忠信又精明的奴仆，为主人所派，管理他的家人，按时分粮给他们？
Who then is the faithful and prudent slave, whom the master has set over his household to give them food at the proper time?
24:46 主人来到，看见他这样行，那奴仆就有福了。
Blessed is that slave whom his master, when he comes, will find so doing.
24:47 我实在告诉你们，主人要派他管理一切的家业。
Truly I say to you that he will set him over all his possessions.
24:48 若是那恶仆心里说，我的主人必来得迟，
But if that evil slave says in his heart, My master delays,
24:49 就动手打那些和他同作奴仆的，又和酒醉的人一同吃喝，
And begins to beat his fellow slaves and eats and drinks with the drunken,
24:50 在想不到的日子，不知道的时辰，那奴仆的主人要来，
The master of that slave will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour which he does not know,
24:51 把他割断，定他和假冒为善的人同受处分；在那里必要哀哭切齿了。
And will cut him asunder and appoint his portion with the hypocrites. In that place there will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
马太福音 Matthew 第 25 章
25:1 那时，诸天的国好比十个童女，拿着她们的灯，出去迎接新郎。
At that time the kingdom of the heavens will be likened to ten virgins, who took their lamps and went forth to meet the bridegroom.
25:2 其中五个是愚拙的，五个是精明的。
And five of them were foolish and five were prudent.
25:3 愚拙的拿着她们的灯，却没有带着油；
For the foolish, when they took their lamps, did not take oil with them;
25:4 但精明的拿着她们的灯，又在器皿里带着油。
But the prudent took oil in their vessels with their lamps.
929
25:5 新郎迟延的时候，她们都打盹睡着了。
And while the bridegroom delayed, they all became drowsy and slept.
25:6 半夜有人喊叫：看哪，新郎来了，你们出来迎接他。
But at midnight there was a cry, Behold, the bridegroom! Go forth to meet him!
25:7 那些童女就都起来，整理她们的灯。
Then all those virgins arose and trimmed their own lamps.
25:8 愚拙的对精明的说，请分点油给我们，因为我们的灯要灭了。
And the foolish said to the prudent, Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out.
25:9 精明的回答说，恐怕不够我们和你们用的，不如你们到卖油的那里，为自己买吧。
But the prudent answered, saying, Perhaps there will not be enough for us and for you; go rather to those who sell, and buy for yourselves.
25:10 不料，她们去买的时候，新郎到了；那预备好的，同他进去赴婚筵，门就关了。
And as they were going away to buy, the bridegroom came; and those who were ready went in with him to the wedding feast. And the door was shut.
25:11 其余的童女随后也来了，说，主阿，主阿，给我们开门。
And later the rest of the virgins came also, saying, Lord, lord, open to us!
25:12 他却回答说，我实在告诉你们，我不认识你们。
But he answered and said, Truly I say to you, I do not know you.
25:13 所以你们要儆醒，因为那日子、那时辰，你们不知道。
Watch therefore, for you do not know the day nor the hour.
25:14 诸天的国又好比一个人要往外国去，就叫了自己的奴仆来，把他的家业交给他们，
For the kingdom of the heavens is just like a man about to go abroad, who called his own slaves and delivered to them his possessions.
25:15 按照各人的才干，个别的给了一个五他连得银子，一个二他连得，一个一他连得，就往外国去了。
To one he gave five talents, and to another two, and to another one, to each according to his own ability. And he went abroad.
25:16 那领五他连得的，随即拿去作买卖，另外赚了五他连得。
Immediately he who had received the five talents went and traded with them and gained another five.
25:17 那领二他连得的，也照样另赚了二他连得。
Similarly, he who had received the two gained another two.
25:18 但那领一他连得的，去掘开地，把他主人的银子埋藏了。
But he who had received the one went off and dug in the earth and hid his master's money.
25:19 过了许久，那些奴仆的主人竟然来和他们算账。
Now after a long time the master of those slaves came and settled accounts with them.
25:20 那领五他连得的，带着另外的五他连得进前来，说，主阿，你交给我五他连得；请看，我另赚了五他连得。
And he who had received the five talents came and brought another five talents, saying, Master, you delivered to me five talents; behold, I have gained another
five talents.
25:21 主人对他说，好，良善又忠信的奴仆，你在不多的事上既是忠信的，我要把许多事派你管理；进来享受你主人的快乐。
His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful slave. You were faithful over a few things; I will set you over many things. Enter into the joy of your master.
25:22 那领二他连得的也进前来，说，主阿，你交给我二他连得；请看，我另赚了二他连得。
And he who had received the two talents also came and said, Master, you delivered to me two talents; behold, I have gained another two talents.
25:23 主人对他说，好，良善又忠信的奴仆，你在不多的事上既是忠信的，我要把许多事派你管理；进来享受你主人的快乐。
His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful slave. You were faithful over a few things; I will set you over many things. Enter into the joy of your master.
25:24 随后那领一他连得的，也进前来，说，主阿，我知道你是忍心的人，没有撒种的地方要收割，没有簸散的地方要收聚；
Then he who had received the one talent also came and said, Master, I knew about you, that you are a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering
where you did not winnow.
25:25 我就害怕，去把你的一他连得埋藏在地里；请看，你仍有你所有的。
And I was afraid and went off and hid your talent in the earth; behold, you have what is yours.
25:26 主人就回答他说，又恶又懒的奴仆，你既知道我没有撒种的地方要收割，没有簸散的地方要收聚，
And his master answered and said to him, Evil and slothful slave, you knew that I reap where I did not sow and gather where I did not winnow.
25:27 就当把我的银子放给兑换银钱的人，到我来的时候，可以连本带利收回。
Therefore you should have deposited my money with the money changers; and when I came, I would have recovered what is mine with interest.
25:28 从他夺过这他连得来，给那有十他连得的。
Take away therefore the talent from him and give it to him who has the ten talents.
25:29 因为凡有的，还要给他，他就充盈有余；没有的，连他所有的，也要从他夺去。
For to every one who has, more shall be given, and he shall abound; but from him who does not have, even that which he has shall be taken away from him.
25:30 把这无用的奴仆，扔在外面黑暗里，在那里必要哀哭切齿了。
And cast out the useless slave into the outer darkness. In that place there will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
25:31 但是，当人子在祂的荣耀里，所有的天使同着祂来的时候，祂要坐在祂荣耀的宝座上；
But when the Son of Man comes in His glory and all the angels with Him, at that time He will sit on the throne of His glory.
25:32 万民都要聚集在祂面前，祂要把他们彼此分开，好像牧人把绵羊从山羊分开一样；
And all the nations will be gathered before Him, and He will separate them from one another, just as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.
25:33 绵羊安置在祂右边，山羊在左边。
And He will set the sheep on His right hand and the goats on the left.
25:34 于是王要对那在祂右边的说，你们这蒙我父赐福的，来承受那创世以来为你们所预备的国。
Then the King will say to those on His right hand, Come, you who are blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.
25:35 因为我饿了，你们给我吃；我渴了，你们给我喝；我作客旅，你们留我住；
For I was hungry and you gave Me something to eat; I was thirsty and you gave Me a drink; I was a stranger and you took Me in,
25:36 我赤身露体，你们给我穿；我病了，你们看顾我；我在监里，你们来看我。
Naked and you clothed Me; I was sick and you visited Me; I was in prison and you came to Me.
930
25:37 那时义人要回答祂说，主阿，我们什么时候见你饿了给你吃，或是渴了给你喝？
Then the righteous will answer Him, saying, Lord, when have we seen You hungry and have fed You, or thirsty and have given You a drink?
25:38 什么时候见你作客旅留你住，或是赤身露体给你穿？
And when have we seen You a stranger and have taken You in, or naked and have clothed You?
25:39 又什么时候见你病了，或是在监里，来看你？
And when have we seen You sick or in prison and have come to You?
25:40 王要回答他们说，我实在告诉你们，这些事你们既作在我这些弟兄中最小的一个身上，就是作在我身上。
And the King will answer and say to them, Truly I say to you, Inasmuch as you have done it to one of these, the least of My brothers, you have done it to Me.
25:41 然后祂又要对那左边的说，你们这被咒诅的，离开我，进入那为魔鬼和他的使者所预备的永火里去。
Then He will say also to those on the left, Go away from Me, you who are cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels.
25:42 因为我饿了，你们没有给我吃；我渴了，你们没有给我喝；
For I was hungry and you did not give Me anything to eat; I was thirsty and you did not give Me a drink;
25:43 我作客旅，你们没有留我住；我赤身露体，你们没有给我穿；我病了，我在监里，你们没有看顾我。
I was a stranger and you did not take Me in; naked and you did not clothe Me; sick and in prison, and you did not visit Me.
25:44 那时他们也要回答说，主阿，我们什么时候见你饿了，或渴了，或作客旅，或赤身露体，或病了，或在监里，没有服事你？
Then they also will answer, saying, Lord, when have we seen You hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison and did not minister to You?
25:45 王要回答他们说，我实在告诉你们，这些事你们既没有作在我这些弟兄中最小的一个身上，就是没有作在我身上。
Then He will answer them, saying, Truly I say to you, Inasmuch as you did not do it to one of the least of these, neither have you done it to Me.
25:46 这些人要往永远的刑罚里去，那些义人却要往永远的生命里去。
And these shall go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.
马太福音 Matthew 第 26 章
26:1 耶稣说完了这一切的话，就对门徒说，
And when Jesus finished all these words, He said to His disciples,
26:2 你们知道过两天是逾越节，人子将要被交给人，钉十字架。
You know that after two days the Passover takes place, and the Son of Man is being delivered up to be crucified.
26:3 那时，祭司长和民间的长老聚集在称呼该亚法的大祭司院子里，
Then the chief priests and the elders of the people were gathered together in the courtyard of the high priest, who was called Caiaphas,
26:4 一同商议，要用诡计拿住耶稣，把祂杀了。
And they took counsel together to seize Jesus by craftiness and kill Him.
26:5 只是他们说，在节期中不可，恐怕民间生乱。
But they said, Not at the feast, lest there be an uproar among the people.
26:6 耶稣在伯大尼患痲疯的西门家里，
Now when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper,
26:7 有一个女人拿着一玉瓶极贵的香膏，到祂跟前来，趁祂坐席的时候，浇在祂的头上。
A woman came to Him, having an alabaster flask of ointment of great value, and she poured it on His head as He reclined at table.
26:8 门徒看见，就恼怒说，何必这样枉费？
But when the disciples saw it, they were indignant, saying, Why this waste?
26:9 这香膏可以卖许多钱，分给穷人。
For this could have been sold for much and given to the poor.
26:10 耶稣知道了，就对他们说，为什么难为这女人？她在我身上作的，是一件美事。
But Jesus, knowing it, said to them, Why do you trouble the woman? She has done a noble deed to Me.
26:11 因为常有穷人和你们同在，只是你们不常有我。
For the poor you have with you always, but you do not always have Me.
26:12 她将这香膏浇在我身上，是为安葬我作的。
For in pouring out this ointment on My body, she has done it for My burial.
26:13 我实在告诉你们，普天之下，无论在什么地方传扬这福音，也要述说这女人所行的，作为对她的记念。
Truly I say to you, Wherever this gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what this woman has done shall also be told as a memorial of her.
26:14 当下，十二个门徒中，有一个称为加略人犹大的，去见祭司长，说，
At that time one of the twelve, the one called Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests
26:15 我把祂交给你们，你们愿意给我什么？他们就称给他三十锭银子。
And said, What are you willing to give me, and I will deliver Him to you? And they weighed out to him thirty pieces of silver.
26:16 从那时候，他就找机会，要把耶稣交出。
And from then on he sought opportunity to deliver Him up.
26:17 除酵节的第一天，门徒到耶稣跟前来，说，你要我们在那里为你预备吃逾越节的筵席？
Now on the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the disciples came to Jesus, saying, Where do You want us to prepare for You to eat the passover?
26:18 耶稣说，你们进城去，到某人那里，对他说，夫子说，我的时候近了，我同我的门徒要在你家里守逾越节。
And He said, Go into the city to a certain man and say to him, The Teacher says, My time is near. I am keeping the passover at your house with My disciples.
26:19 门徒就照着耶稣所吩咐他们的去作，预备了逾越节的筵席。
And the disciples did as Jesus directed them, and they prepared the passover.
26:20 到了晚上，耶稣和十二个门徒坐席。
And when evening fell, He reclined at table with the twelve.
26:21 正吃的时候，耶稣说，我实在告诉你们，你们中间有一个人要出卖我了。
And as they were eating, He said, Truly I say to you that one of you will betray Me.
931
26:22 他们就甚忧愁，一个一个的问祂说，主，是我么？
And being greatly grieved, each one of them began to say to Him, I am not the one, am I, Lord?
26:23 耶稣回答说，同我蘸手在盘子里的，就是他要出卖我。
And He answered and said, The one who dips his hand with Me in the dish, this one will betray Me.
26:24 人子必要去世，正如经上指着祂所写的，但出卖人子的有祸了，那人不生下来倒好。
The Son of Man is going away, even as it is written concerning Him, but woe to that man through whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been good for
that man if he had not been born.
26:25 出卖耶稣的犹大应声说，拉比，是我么？祂对他说，你说的是。
And Judas, who was betraying Him, answered and said, I am not the one, am I, Rabbi? He said to him, You have said it yourself.
26:26 他们吃的时候，耶稣拿起饼来，祝福了，就擘开，递给门徒，说，你们拿着吃，这是我的身体。
And as they were eating, Jesus took bread and blessed it, and He broke it and gave it to the disciples and said, Take, eat; this is My body.
26:27 又拿起杯来，祝谢了，递给他们，说，你们都喝这个，
And He took a cup and gave thanks, and He gave it to them, saying, Drink of it, all of you,
26:28 因为这是我立约的血，为多人流出来，使罪得赦。
For this is My blood of the covenant, which is being poured out for many for forgiveness of sins.
26:29 但我告诉你们，从今以后，我绝不喝这葡萄树的产品，直到我在我父的国里，同你们喝新的那日子。
But I say to you, I shall by no means drink of this product of the vine from now on until that day when I drink it new with you in the kingdom of My Father.
26:30 他们唱了诗，就出来往橄榄山去。
And after singing a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
26:31 那时，耶稣对他们说，今夜你们都要因我绊跌，因为经上记着，“我要击打牧人，羊群的羊就分散了。”
Then Jesus said to them, You will all be stumbled because of Me this night, for it is written, "I will smite the Shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.''
26:32 但我复活以后，要在你们以先往加利利去。
But after I have been raised, I will go before you into Galilee.
26:33 彼得就应声对祂说，即使众人因你绊跌，我总不绊跌。
Then Peter answered and said to Him, If all will be stumbled because of You, I will never be stumbled.
26:34 耶稣对他说，我实在告诉你，今夜鸡叫以前，你要三次否认我。
Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you that in this night, before a rooster crows, you will deny Me three times.
26:35 彼得对祂说，我就是必须和你同死，也绝不会否认你。所有的门徒也都这样说。
Peter said to Him, Even if I must die with You, I will by no means deny You. And all the disciples said likewise.
26:36 随后耶稣同门徒来到一个地方，名叫客西马尼，就对他们说，你们坐在这里，等我到那边去祷告。
Then Jesus came with them to a place called Gethsemane, and He said to the disciples, Sit here while I go over there and pray.
26:37 于是带着彼得，和西庇太的两个儿子到一边去，就忧愁起来，极其难过，
And taking Peter and the two sons of Zebedee aside, He began to be sorrowful and deeply distressed.
26:38 便对他们说，我的魂极其忧伤，几乎要死。你们留在这里，和我一同儆醒。
Then He said to them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch with Me.
26:39 祂就稍往前走，面伏于地，祷告说，我父阿，若是可能，就叫这杯离开我；然而不要照我的意思，只要照你的意思。
And going forward a little, He fell on His face and prayed, saying, My Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from Me; yet not as I will, but as You will.
26:40 祂来到门徒那里，见他们睡着了，就对彼得说，怎么，你们不能同我儆醒片时么？
And He came to the disciples and found them sleeping. And He said to Peter, So were you not able to watch with Me for one hour?
26:41 要儆醒祷告，免得入了试诱；你们的灵固然愿意，肉体却软弱了。
Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.
26:42 祂第二次又去祷告说，我父阿，这杯若不能离开我，必要我喝，就愿你的旨意成就。
Again, going away a second time, He prayed, saying, My Father, if this cannot pass away unless I drink it, Your will be done.
26:43 祂又来，见他们睡着了，因为他们的眼睛困倦。
And coming again, He found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy.
26:44 祂又离开他们，第三次去祷告，还是说同样的话。
And leaving them, He went away again and prayed a third time, saying the same word again.
26:45 然后来到门徒那里，对他们说，现在你们还在睡觉安歇么？看哪，时刻近了，人子要被交在罪人手里。
Then He came to the disciples and said to them, Are you still sleeping and resting? Behold, the hour has drawn near, and the Son of Man is being delivered up
into the hands of sinners.
26:46 起来，我们走吧。看哪，出卖我的人近了。
Arise, let us be going. Behold, the one who is betraying Me has drawn near.
26:47 耶稣还在说话的时候，看哪，那十二个门徒中的犹大来了，还有大批群众带着刀棒，从祭司长和民间的长老那里，与他同来。
And while He was still speaking, behold, Judas, one of the twelve, came, and with him a great crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and elders of
the people.
26:48 那出卖耶稣的，就给了他们一个暗号，说，我和谁亲嘴，谁就是祂，你们就拿住祂。
Now the one who was betraying Him had given them a sign, saying, Whomever I kiss, He is the one; seize Him.
26:49 犹大随即到耶稣跟前来，说，拉比，愿你喜乐！就热切的和祂亲嘴。
And immediately he came to Jesus and said, Rejoice, Rabbi, and kissed Him affectionately.
26:50 耶稣对他说，朋友，你在这里作什么！于是那些人上前来，下手拿住耶稣。
But Jesus said to him, Friend, what are you here for? Then they came and laid hands on Jesus and seized Him.
26:51 看哪，同耶稣在一起的人中，有一个伸手拔出刀来，将大祭司的奴仆砍了一刀，削掉了他一个耳朵。
And behold, one of those with Jesus stretched out his hand and drew his sword, and struck the slave of the high priest and took off his ear.
26:52 于是耶稣对他说，把你的刀收回原处；因为凡动刀的，必死在刀下。
Then Jesus said to him, Return your sword to its place, for all those who take up the sword will perish by the sword.
26:53 你想我不能求我父，现在为我派遣十二营多的天使来么？
932
Or do you think that I cannot beseech My Father, and He will provide Me at once with more than twelve legions of angels?
26:54 若是这样，经上所说事情必须如此的话，怎能应验？
How then shall the Scriptures be fulfilled which say that it must happen this way?
26:55 当时，耶稣对群众说，你们带着刀棒出来捉我，如同捉强盗么？我天天坐在殿里施教，你们并没有捉拿我。
In that hour Jesus said to the crowds, Have you come out as against a robber with swords and clubs to arrest Me? Day after day I sat in the temple teaching, and
you did not seize Me.
26:56 但这一切成就了，为要应验申言者所写的。当下，门徒都离开祂逃走了。
But all this has happened in order that the writings of the prophets may be fulfilled. Then all the disciples left Him and fled.
26:57 捉拿耶稣的人，就把祂带到大祭司该亚法那里去；经学家和长老已经在那里聚集。
And those who seized Jesus led Him away to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders had gathered.
26:58 彼得远远的跟着耶稣，直到大祭司的院子，进到里面，就和差役同坐，要看结局。
And Peter followed Him at a distance to the courtyard of the high priest; and entering within, he sat with the attendants to see the end.
26:59 祭司长和全议会尽力寻找假见证，控告耶稣，为要把祂治死，
Now the chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were seeking false testimony against Jesus so that they might put Him to death,
26:60 总是得不到，尽管有好些假见证人上前作证。但后来有两个人上前说，
And they did not find it, though many false witnesses came forward. But later two came
26:61 这个人曾说，我能拆毁神的殿，三日内又建造起来。
And said, This man said, I am able to destroy the temple of God and build it up in three days.
26:62 大祭司就站起来，对耶稣说，你什么都不回答么？这些人作见证告你的是什么？
And the high priest stood up and said to Him, Do You answer nothing? What is it that these testify against You?
26:63 耶稣却默不作声。大祭司对祂说，我要你指着活神起誓告诉我们，你是神的儿子基督不是？
But Jesus remained silent. And the high priest said to Him, I charge You to swear by the living God to tell us if You are the Christ, the Son of God.
26:64 耶稣对他说，你说的对了。然而我还要告诉你们，从此以后你们要看见人子，坐在那大能者的右边，驾着天上的云而来。
Jesus said to him, You have said rightly. Nevertheless I say to you, From now on you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of Power and coming on the
clouds of heaven.
26:65 大祭司就撕开衣服，说，祂说了僭妄的话，我们还需要什么证人？你看，这僭妄的话现在你们都听见了，
Then the high priest tore his garments, saying, He has blasphemed! What further need do we have of witnesses? Behold, now you have heard the blasphemy.
26:66 你们怎么看？他们就回答说，祂是该死的。
What do you think? And they answered and said, He is worthy of death.
26:67 于是他们吐唾沫在祂脸上，用拳头打祂，也有用手掌打祂的，说，
Then they spat in His face and beat Him with their fists, and others slapped Him,
26:68 基督阿，对我们申言出，打你的是谁？
Saying, Prophesy to us, Christ! Who is the one who hit You?
26:69 彼得却在外面院子里坐着，有一个使女来到他跟前，说，你也是同那加利利人耶稣一起的。
Now Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard, and a servant girl came to him and said, You also were with Jesus the Galilean.
26:70 彼得在众人面前却不承认，说，我不知道你说的是什么。
But he denied it before all, saying, I do not know what you are talking about!
26:71 他出去，到了门廊，另有一个使女看见他，就对那里的人说，这个人也是同那拿撒勒人耶稣一起的。
And after he had gone out to the porch, another girl saw him and said to those who were there, This man was with Jesus the Nazarene.
26:72 彼得又不承认，起誓说，我不认得那个人。
And again he denied with an oath, I do not know the man!
26:73 过了不久，旁边站着的人进前来，对彼得说，你也确是属他们的，因为你的口音把你露出来了。
And after a little while those who were standing there came to Peter and said, Surely you also are one of them, for your speech also makes it clear that you are.
26:74 彼得遂发咒起誓说，我不认得那个人。立时鸡就叫了。
Then he began to curse and to swear: I do not know the man! And immediately a rooster crowed.
26:75 彼得想起耶稣所说的话，鸡叫以前，你要三次否认我。他就到外面去痛哭。
And Peter remembered the word which Jesus had said, Before a rooster crows, you will deny Me three times. And he went out and wept bitterly.
马太福音 Matthew 第 27 章
27:1 到了早晨，所有的祭司长和民间的长老商议陷害耶稣，为要把祂治死，
Now when morning had come, all the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to put Him to death.
27:2 就把祂捆绑，解去交给总督彼拉多。
And having bound Him, they led Him away and delivered Him to Pilate the governor.
27:3 这时，出卖耶稣的犹大看见耶稣定了罪，就后悔，把那三十锭银子还给祭司长和长老，说，
Then Judas, who betrayed Him, seeing that He was condemned, regretted and returned the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders,
27:4 我出卖了无辜的血，有罪了！他们说，那与我们何干？你自己看着办吧。
Saying, I have sinned in betraying innocent blood. But they said, What is that to us? You see to that yourself!
27:5 他就把那些银锭丢在殿里，离开，出去吊死了。
And he threw the pieces of silver into the temple and departed, and he went away and hanged himself.
27:6 祭司长取了那些银锭，说，不可把它们放在圣库里，因为那是血价。
And the chief priests took the pieces of silver and said, It is not lawful to put them into the temple treasury, since it is blood money.
27:7 他们就商议，用那些银锭买了窑匠的一块田，用来埋葬客旅。
And after taking counsel, they bought with it the potter's field as a burial place for strangers.
27:8 所以那块田，直到今日还叫作血田。
933
Therefore that field has been called the Field of Blood to this day.
27:9 这就应验了那借着申言者耶利米所说的，说，“他们拿那三十锭银子，就是被估定之人的价钱，是以色列子孙中所估定的，
At that time what was spoken through Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled, saying, "And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of Him that had been priced,
whom they of the sons of Israel had priced,
27:10 买了窑匠的一块田，正如主所吩咐我的。”
And they gave them for the potter's field, as the Lord directed me.''
27:11 耶稣站在总督面前，总督问祂说，你是犹太人的王么？耶稣说，你说的是。
And Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor questioned Him, saying, Are You the King of the Jews? And Jesus said, It is as you say.
27:12 可是，当祂被祭司长和长老控告的时候，什么都不回答。
And while He was being accused by the chief priests and elders, He answered nothing.
27:13 彼拉多对祂说，他们作见证，告你这么多的事，你没有听见么？
Then Pilate said to Him, Do You not hear how many things they testify against You?
27:14 耶稣仍不回答，连一句话也不说，以致总督极为希奇。
And He did not answer him, not even to one word, so that the governor marveled greatly.
27:15 每逢节期，总督照例把群众所要的一个囚犯，释放给他们。
Now at the feasts the governor was accustomed to release to the crowd one prisoner whom they wanted.
27:16 当时，有一个出名的囚犯，名叫巴拉巴。
And they had at that time a notorious prisoner named Barabbas.
27:17 众人聚集的时候，彼拉多就对他们说，你们要我释放那一个给你们？巴拉巴，还是称为基督的耶稣？
Therefore when they were gathered together, Pilate said to them, Whom do you want me to release to you? Barabbas or Jesus who is called Christ?
27:18 他原知道他们是因嫉妒才把耶稣解了来。
For he knew that it was because of envy that they had delivered Him up.
27:19 彼拉多正坐在审判台上的时候，他的夫人打发人到他那里说，这义人的事，你一点也不可管，因为我今天在梦中，因祂受了许多苦。
And while he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent word to him, saying, Have nothing to do with that righteous man, for I have suffered much today in a
dream because of Him.
27:20 但祭司长和长老挑唆群众，要求释放巴拉巴，除灭耶稣。
But the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowds to ask for Barabbas and to destroy Jesus.
27:21 总督对他们说，两个当中，你们要我释放那一个给你们？他们说，巴拉巴。
And the governor answered and said to them, Which of the two do you want me to release to you? And they said, Barabbas.
27:22 彼拉多对他们说，那么，那称为基督的耶稣，我怎么办祂？众人都说，钉祂十字架！
Pilate said to them, What then shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ? They all said, Let Him be crucified!
27:23 总督说，为什么？祂作了什么恶事？他们却更加喊叫说，钉祂十字架！
But he said, Why, what evil has He done? But they cried out the more, saying, Let Him be crucified!
27:24 彼拉多见无济于事，反要生乱，就拿水在群众面前洗手，说，流这人的血，罪不在我，你们自己看着办吧。
And Pilate, seeing that nothing was gained but rather that an uproar was taking place, took water and washed his hands before the crowd, saying, I am
innocent of this man's blood. You see to it yourselves.
27:25 众百姓回答说，祂的血归到我们，和我们的子孙身上。
And all the people answered and said, His blood be upon us and upon our children!
27:26 于是彼拉多释放巴拉巴给他们，却把耶稣鞭打了，交给人钉十字架。
Then he released to them Barabbas, but Jesus he scourged and delivered up to be crucified.
27:27 那时，总督的兵丁把耶稣带进总督府，全营都聚集在祂那里。
Then the governor's soldiers took Jesus into the praetorium and gathered about Him the whole cohort.
27:28 他们剥了祂的衣服，给祂穿上一件朱红色袍子，
And they stripped Him and put a scarlet robe around Him,
27:29 用荆棘编作冠冕，戴在祂头上，又把一根苇子放在祂右手里，跪在祂面前戏弄祂，说，犹太人的王！愿你喜乐！
And they wove a crown of thorns and placed it on His head and put a reed in His right hand; and they kneeled before Him and mocked Him saying, Rejoice, King
of the Jews!
27:30 又向祂吐唾沫，拿苇子打祂的头。
And they spat on Him and took the reed and beat Him on the head.
27:31 戏弄完了，就脱下祂的袍子，给祂穿上自己的衣服，把祂带去钉十字架。
And when they had mocked Him, they stripped Him of the robe and put His garments on Him, and led Him away to crucify Him.
27:32 他们出来的时候，遇见一个古利奈人，名叫西门，就强迫这人背耶稣的十字架。
And as they were going out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name; this one they compelled to take up His cross.
27:33 到了一个地方，名叫各各他，就是那称为髑髅地的。
And when they had come to a place called Golgotha, that is to say, Place of a Skull,
27:34 他们拿苦胆调和的酒给祂喝。祂尝了，就不肯喝。
They gave Him wine to drink, mingled with gall. And when He tasted it, He would not drink.
27:35 他们既将祂钉了十字架，就拈阄分祂的衣服，
And when they had crucified Him, they divided His garments among themselves, casting lots.
27:36 又坐在那里看守祂。
And they sat down and guarded Him there.
27:37 他们在祂的头以上，安了一个牌子，写着祂的罪状：这是犹太人的王耶稣。
And they set in writing over His head the charge against Him: This Is Jesus, The King Of The JEWS.
27:38 当时，有两个强盗和祂同钉十字架，一个在右边，一个在左边。
At that time two robbers were crucified with Him, one on the right and one on the left.
27:39 经过的人就亵渎祂，摇着头说，
934
And those who were passing by blasphemed Him, wagging their heads
27:40 你这拆毁圣殿，三日内建造起来的，救你自己吧！你若是神的儿子，就从十字架上下来吧！
And saying, You who destroy the temple and build it up in three days, save Yourself! If You are the Son of God, come down from the cross!
27:41 祭司长，同经学家和长老，也是这样戏弄祂，说，
Likewise also the chief priests with the scribes and elders mocked Him and said,
27:42 祂救了别人，不能救自己。祂是以色列的王，现在可以从十字架上下来，我们就信靠祂。
He saved others; Himself He cannot save. He is King of Israel; let Him come down now from the cross, and we will believe on Him.
27:43 祂倚靠神，神若要祂，现在可以救祂，因为祂曾说，我是神的儿子。
He trusts in God; let Him rescue Him now if He wants Him, for He said, I am the Son of God.
27:44 连和祂同钉的强盗，也是这样辱骂祂。
And in the same way the robbers who were crucified with Him also reproached Him.
27:45 从正午到午后三时，遍地都黑暗了。
Now from the sixth hour darkness fell over all the land until the ninth hour.
27:46 约在午后三时，耶稣大声呼喊说，以利，以利，拉马撒巴各大尼？就是：我的神，我的神，你为什么弃绝我？
And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani? that is, My God, My God, why have You forsaken Me?
27:47 站在那里的人，有的听见就说，这个人呼叫以利亚。
And some of those standing there, when they heard this, said, This man is calling Elijah.
27:48 其中有一个人赶紧跑去，拿海绵蘸满了醋，绑在苇子上，送给祂喝。
And immediately one of them ran, and taking a sponge, he soaked it with vinegar and put it on a reed, and gave it to Him to drink.
27:49 但其余的人说，等一等，看以利亚来救祂不来。
But the rest said, Let Him be. Let us see if Elijah is coming to save Him.
27:50 耶稣又大声呼喊，交出了祂的灵。
And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice and yielded up His spirit.
27:51 看哪，殿里的幔子从上到下裂为两半；地就震动，磐石也崩裂；
And behold, the veil of the temple was split in two from top to bottom, and the earth was shaken and the rocks were split,
27:52 坟墓也开了，已睡圣徒的身体，多有起来的。
And the tombs were opened, and many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised.
27:53 到耶稣复活以后，他们从坟墓里出来，进了圣城，向许多人显现。
And they came out of the tombs after His resurrection and entered into the holy city and appeared to many.
27:54 百夫长和一同看守耶稣的人，看见地震并所发生的事，就极其害怕，说，这真是神的儿子。
Now the centurion and those with him guarding Jesus, when they saw the earthquake and the things that happened, became greatly frightened, saying, Truly
this was the Son of God.
27:55 还有好些妇女在那里远远的观看，她们是从加利利跟随耶稣服事祂的。
And many women were there looking on from a distance, who had followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering to Him,
27:56 其中有抹大拉的马利亚，又有雅各和约西的母亲马利亚，并有西庇太两个儿子的母亲。
Among whom were Mary the Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joseph, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee.
27:57 到了黄昏，有一个从亚利马太来的财主，名叫约瑟，他也是耶稣的门徒。
And when evening fell, there came a rich man from Arimathea, named Joseph, who himself had also become a disciple of Jesus.
27:58 这人到彼拉多跟前来，求耶稣的身体，彼拉多就吩咐给他。
This man came to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded that it be given to him.
27:59 约瑟取了身体，用洁净的细麻布裹好，
And Joseph took the body and wrapped it in a clean, fine linen cloth.
27:60 安放在自己的新坟墓里，就是他凿在磐石里的。他又把大石头辊到坟墓门口，就去了。
And he laid it in his own new tomb, which he had hewn in the rock. And having rolled a great stone in front of the door of the tomb, he went away.
27:61 抹大拉的马利亚，和另一个马利亚，却在那里对着坟墓坐着。
And Mary the Magdalene was there, and the other Mary, sitting opposite the grave.
27:62 次日，就是预备日的第二天，祭司长和法利赛人聚集到彼拉多那里，说，
On the next day, which is the day after the preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered unto Pilate,
27:63 大人，我们记得那迷惑人的还活着的时候曾说，三日后我要复活。
Saying, Sir, we have remembered that while He was still living, that deceiver said, After three days I will arise.
27:64 所以请吩咐人将坟墓把守妥当，直到第三日，免得祂的门徒来把祂偷去，就告诉百姓说，祂从死人中复活了。这样，那后来的迷惑，比先前的就更
厉害了。
Therefore, give orders for the grave to be secured until the third day, lest His disciples come and steal Him away and say to the people, He has been raised from
the dead. And the last deception will be worse than the first.
27:65 彼拉多对他们说，你们带着卫兵去吧，尽你们所能的把守妥当。
Pilate said to them, Take a guard. Go and make the tomb as secure as you know how.
27:66 他们就去，同着卫兵用印封了石头，将坟墓把守妥当。
And they went and secured the grave, sealing the stone, with the guard being there.
马太福音 Matthew 第 28 章
28:1 安息日将尽，七日的头一日，天快亮的时候，抹大拉的马利亚，和另一个马利亚来看坟墓。
Now late on the Sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, Mary the Magdalene and the other Mary came to look at the grave.
28:2 看哪，地大震动；因为有主的使者从天上下来，上前把石头辊开，坐在上面。
And behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended out of heaven and came and rolled away the stone and sat upon it.
935
28:3 他的像貌如同闪电，衣服白得像雪。
And his appearance was like lightning, and his garment as white as snow.
28:4 看守的人由于怕他，就战抖，甚至和死人一样。
And for fear of him the guards shook and became like dead men.
28:5 天使就对妇女说，不要怕，我知道你们是寻找那钉十字架的耶稣。
And the angel answered and said to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know that you are seeking Jesus, the crucified.
28:6 祂不在这里，照祂所说的，已经复活了；你们来看安放祂的地方。
He is not here, for He has been raised, even as He said. Come, see the place where He was lying.
28:7 快去告诉祂的门徒，祂已经从死人中复活，并且看哪，祂在你们以先往加利利去，在那里你们要看见祂。看哪，我已经告诉你们了。
And go quickly and tell His disciples that He has been raised from the dead, and behold, He goes before you into Galilee. There you will see Him. Behold, I have
told you.
28:8 她们就急忙离开坟墓，又害怕，又大大的欢喜，跑去报告祂的门徒。
And they went away quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy and ran to report this to His disciples.
28:9 看哪，耶稣迎着她们，说，愿你们喜乐！她们就上前，抱住祂的脚拜祂。
And behold, Jesus met them, saying, Rejoice! And they came to Him and took hold of His feet and worshipped Him.
28:10 耶稣对她们说，不要怕，你们去告诉我的弟兄，叫他们往加利利去，在那里必看见我。
Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go and report to My brothers that they should go into Galilee, and there they will see Me.
28:11 她们去的时候，几个卫兵进城去，将一切所发生的事都报给祭司长。
And as they were going, behold, some from the guard came into the city and reported to the chief priests all that had happened.
28:12 祭司长和长老聚集商议，就把许多银子给兵丁，说，
And after the chief priests had gathered with the elders and had taken counsel, they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers,
28:13 你们要说，夜间我们睡觉的时候，祂的门徒来把祂偷去了。
Saying, Say this, His disciples came by night and stole Him away while we slept.
28:14 若是这话被总督听见，我们会劝服他，使你们免去挂虑。
And if this comes to the governor's ears, we will persuade him and make sure that you have nothing to worry about.
28:15 兵丁拿了银子，就照他们所受的指示去行。这话就流传在犹太人中间，直到今日。
And they took the money and did as they were instructed. And this account has been widely spread among the Jews until this very day.
28:16 十一个门徒往加利利去，到了耶稣给他们指定的山上。
And the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus directed them.
28:17 他们见了耶稣，就拜祂，然而还有人疑惑。
And when they saw Him, they worshipped Him, though some doubted.
28:18 耶稣进前来，对他们说，天上地上所有的权柄，都赐给我了。
And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to Me in heaven and on earth.
28:19 所以你们要去，使万民作我的门徒，将他们浸入父、子、圣灵的名里，
Go therefore and disciple all the nations, baptizing them into the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,
28:20 凡我所吩咐你们的，无论是什么，都教训他们遵守；看哪，我天天与你们同在，直到这世代的终结。
Teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you all the days until the consummation of the age.
936
41. 马可福音 Mark
马可福音 Mark 第 1 章
1:1 神的儿子，耶稣基督福音的开始，
The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God,
1:2 正如申言者以赛亚书上所记的：“看哪，我在你面前差遣我的使者，他要预备你的道路；
Even as it is written in Isaiah the prophet: "Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, who will prepare Your way,
1:3 在旷野有人声喊着：预备主的道路，修直祂的途径。”
A voice of one crying in the wilderness: Prepare the way of the Lord; make straight His paths.''
1:4 照这话，约翰出来了，在旷野施浸，传悔改的浸，使罪得赦。
John came baptizing in the wilderness and preaching a baptism of repentance for forgiveness of sins.
1:5 犹太全地和全耶路撒冷的人，都络绎的出去到约翰那里，承认着他们的罪，在约但河里受他的浸。
And all the region of Judea went out to him, and all the people of Jerusalem; and they were baptized by him in the Jordan River, as they confessed their sins.
1:6 约翰穿骆驼毛的衣服，腰束皮带，吃的是蝗虫野蜜。
And John was clothed in camel's hair and had a leather girdle around his loins, and he ate locusts and wild honey.
1:7 他传道说，有一位在我以后来的，能力比我更大，我就是弯腰给祂解鞋带也不配。
And he preached, saying, He who is stronger than I comes after me, the thong of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie.
1:8 我是将你们浸在水里，祂却要将你们浸在圣灵里。
I have baptized you in water, but He Himself will baptize you in the Holy Spirit.
1:9 当那些日子，耶稣从加利利的拿撒勒来，在约但河里受了约翰的浸。
And in those days Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized in the Jordan by John.
1:10 祂从水里上来，立即看见诸天裂开了，那灵仿佛鸽子，降到祂身上。
And immediately, coming up out of the water, He saw the heavens being parted and the Spirit as a dove descending upon Him.
1:11 又有声音从诸天之上出来，说，你是我的爱子，我喜悦你。
And a voice came out of the heavens: You are My Son, the Beloved; in You I have found My delight.
1:12 那灵随即把耶稣催到旷野去。
And immediately the Spirit thrust Him out into the wilderness.
1:13 祂在旷野四十天受撒但的试诱，并与野兽在一起，且有天使服事祂。
And He was in the wilderness forty days, being tempted by Satan; and He was with the wild animals, and the angels ministered to Him.
1:14 约翰下监以后，耶稣来到加利利，传扬神的福音，说，
And after John was delivered up, Jesus came into Galilee, proclaiming the gospel of God,
1:15 时期满了，神的国已经临近了。你们要悔改，相信福音。
And saying, The time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God has drawn near. Repent and believe in the gospel.
1:16 耶稣顺着加利利的海边走，看见西门和西门的兄弟安得烈，在海里撒网；他们本是渔夫。
And passing beside the Sea of Galilee, He saw Simon and Andrew, Simon's brother, casting a net in the sea, for they were fishermen.
1:17 耶稣对他们说，来跟从我，我要使你们成为得人的渔夫。
And Jesus said to them, Come after Me, and I will cause you to become fishers of men.
1:18 他们就立刻撇下网，跟从了祂。
And immediately leaving the nets, they followed Him.
1:19 祂稍往前走，又看见西庇太的儿子雅各，和雅各的兄弟约翰，在船上补网。
And going on a little, He saw James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, who also were in their boat, mending the nets.
1:20 祂随即呼召他们；他们就把父亲西庇太和雇工撇在船上，跟从耶稣去了。
And immediately He called them, and leaving their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants, they went after Him.
1:21 他们走到迦百农，耶稣随即在安息日进入会堂施教。
And they went into Capernaum, and immediately, on the Sabbath, He entered into the synagogue and taught.
1:22 众人都惊讶祂的教训，因为祂教训他们，像有权柄的人，不像经学家。
And they were astounded at His teaching, for He taught them as One having authority and not like the scribes.
1:23 即时在他们的会堂里，有一个人被污灵附着，喊叫说，
And immediately, there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, saying,
1:24 拿撒勒人耶稣，我们与你何干？你来除灭我们么？我知道你是谁，乃是神的圣者。
What have we to do with You, Jesus, Nazarene? Have You come to destroy us? I know who You are -- the Holy One of God.
1:25 耶稣便斥责他说，不要作声，从这人身上出来！
And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be quiet and come out of him!
1:26 污灵叫那人抽了一阵疯，大声喊叫，便从他身上出来了。
And the unclean spirit, convulsing him and shouting with a loud voice, came out of him.
1:27 众人都希奇，以致彼此讨论说，这是什么事？是个新鲜的教训！祂用权柄命令污灵，污灵就听从了祂。
And they were all amazed, so that they discussed among themselves, saying, What is this? A new teaching! With authority He orders even the unclean spirits,
and they obey Him.
1:28 耶稣的名声立刻传遍了加利利四周全境。
And immediately the report concerning Him went out everywhere into all the surrounding region of Galilee.
1:29 他们一出会堂，就同着雅各、约翰，进了西门和安得烈的家。
And immediately, going out of the synagogue, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew with James and John.
1:30 西门的岳母正发烧躺着，有人立刻向耶稣说到她。
And Simon's mother-in-law was lying down with a fever, and immediately they told Him about her.
1:31 耶稣上前拉着她的手，扶她起来，烧就退了，她就服事他们。
937
And He came to her and raised her up, holding her hand, and the fever left her, and she served them.
1:32 到了黄昏，日落的时候，有人带着一切患病的和被鬼附的，到耶稣跟前；
And when evening fell and the sun had set, they brought to Him all those who were ill and those who were demon possessed.
1:33 合城的人都聚集在门前。
And the whole city was gathered together at the door.
1:34 耶稣治好了许多患各样疾病的人，又赶出许多鬼，且不许鬼说话，因为鬼认识祂。
And He healed many who were ill with various diseases, and He cast out many demons and did not allow the demons to speak, because they knew Him.
1:35 清早，天还黑，耶稣起来，到旷野地方去，在那里祷告。
And rising very early in the morning, while it was still night, He went out and went away to a deserted place, and there He prayed.
1:36 西门和同伴去追寻祂，
And Simon and those with him hunted for Him,
1:37 找着了，就对祂说，众人都在找你。
And they found Him and said to Him, All are seeking You.
1:38 祂对他们说，我们可以往别处去，到邻近的村镇，我也好在那里传道，我原是为此出来的。
And He said to them, Let us go elsewhere into the nearby towns that I may preach there also, because for this purpose I came out.
1:39 祂就在加利利全地，进了他们的会堂，传道并赶鬼。
And He went preaching in their synagogues in the whole of Galilee and casting out the demons.
1:40 有一个患痲疯的来到耶稣跟前，恳求祂，跪下向祂说，你若肯，必能叫我洁净了。
And a leper came to Him, entreating Him and falling on his knees and saying to Him, If You are willing, You can cleanse me.
1:41 耶稣就动了慈心，伸手摸他，说，我肯，你洁净了吧。
And He was moved with compassion, and stretching out His hand, He touched him and said to him, I am willing; be cleansed!
1:42 痲疯立即离开他，他就洁净了。
And immediately the leprosy left him, and he was cleansed.
1:43 耶稣严严的嘱咐他，即刻打发他走，
And sternly charging him, immediately He thrust him out,
1:44 又对他说，你要当心，什么都不可告诉人，只要去把身体给祭司察看，又要为你得了洁净，献上摩西所规定的礼物，对他们作证据。
And said to him, See that you say nothing to anyone; but go, show yourself to the priest and offer for your cleansing the things which Moses commanded, for a
testimony to them.
1:45 但那人出去，广事宣扬，把这事传开了，以致耶稣不能再明明的进城，只好在外面旷野地方，人从各处都就了祂来。
But he went out and began to proclaim it much and to spread the matter abroad, so that He could no longer enter openly into a city, but He stayed outside in
deserted places. And they came to Him from everywhere.
马可福音 Mark 第 2 章
2:1 过了些日子，耶稣又进了迦百农。人听见祂在屋子里，
And He entered again into Capernaum after a few days, and it was heard that He was at home.
2:2 就有许多人聚集，以致门前再无空地，祂就对他们讲道。
And many were gathered together, so that there was no longer room, not even at the door. And He spoke to them the word.
2:3 有人带着一个瘫子来就耶稣，是由四个人抬来的。
And they came, bringing to Him a paralytic carried by four men.
2:4 因为人多，不能带到祂跟前，就把耶稣所在的地方，拆了屋顶，既拆通了，就把瘫子所躺卧的褥子缒下去。
And being unable to bring him to Him because of the crowd, they removed the roof where He was. And when they had dug through, they lowered the mat on
which the paralytic was lying.
2:5 耶稣见他们的信心，就对瘫子说，孩子，你的罪赦了。
And Jesus, seeing their faith, said to the paralytic, Child, your sins are forgiven.
2:6 但有几个经学家坐在那里，心里议论说，
But some of the scribes were sitting there and reasoning in their hearts,
2:7 这个人为什么这样说？祂说僭妄的话了。除了神一位以外，谁能赦罪？
Why is this man speaking this way? He is blaspheming! Who can forgive sins except One, God?
2:8 耶稣灵里即刻知道他们心里这样议论，就对他们说，你们心里为什么议论这些事？
And immediately Jesus, knowing fully in His spirit that they were reasoning this way within themselves, said to them, Why are you reasoning about these things in
your hearts?
2:9 对瘫子说，你的罪赦了，或说，起来，拿你的褥子行走，哪一样更容易？
Which is easier: to say to the paralytic, Your sins are forgiven, or to say, Rise and take up your mat and walk?
2:10 但要叫你们知道人子在地上有赦罪的权柄─就对瘫子说，
But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority to forgive sins on earth -- He said to the paralytic,
2:11 我吩咐你，起来，拿你的褥子回家去吧！
To you I say, Rise, take up your mat and go to your house.
2:12 那人就起来，立刻拿着褥子，当着众人面前出去了，以致众人都惊奇，荣耀神说，我们从来没有见过这样的事。
And he rose and immediately took up the mat and went out before them all, so that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, We have never seen
anything like this!
2:13 耶稣又出到海边去，群众都就了祂来，祂便教训他们。
And He went out again beside the sea. And all the crowd came to Him, and He taught them.
2:14 祂经过的时候，看见亚勒腓的儿子利未，坐在税关上，就对他说，跟从我。他就起来，跟从了耶稣。
And as He passed by, He saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at the tax office, and He said to him, Follow Me. And he rose and followed Him.
938
2:15 耶稣在利未家里坐席，有好些税吏和罪人，与耶稣和祂的门徒一同坐席；因为这样的人多，他们也跟随耶稣。
And as He reclined at table in his house, many tax collectors and sinners were reclining together with Jesus and His disciples, for there were many, and they
were following Him.
2:16 法利赛人中的经学家，看见祂和罪人并税吏一同吃饭，就对祂的门徒说，祂和税吏并罪人一同吃饭么？
And the scribes of the Pharisees, seeing that He ate with sinners and tax collectors, said to His disciples, Why does He eat with tax collectors and sinners?
2:17 耶稣听见，就对他们说，强健的人用不着医生，有病的人才用得着；我来本不是召义人，乃是召罪人。
And when Jesus heard this, He said to them, Those who are strong have no need of a physician, but those who are ill; I did not come to call the righteous, but
sinners.
2:18 约翰的门徒和法利赛人正在禁食；他们来对耶稣说，为什么约翰的门徒和法利赛人的门徒禁食，你的门徒倒不禁食？
And the disciples of John and the Pharisees were fasting. And they came and said to Him, Why do the disciples of John and the disciples of the Pharisees fast,
but Your disciples do not fast?
2:19 耶稣对他们说，新郎和伴友同在的时候，伴友岂能禁食？只要有新郎与他们同在，他们就不能禁食。
And Jesus said to them, The sons of the bridechamber cannot fast while the bridegroom is with them, can they? For as long a time as they have the bridegroom
with them they cannot fast.
2:20 但日子将到，新郎要从他们中间被取去，那日他们就要禁食。
But days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast in that day.
2:21 没有人用未漂过的布作补丁，缝在旧衣服上；不然，所补上的新布，会扯破旧的，裂缝就更大了。
No one sews a patch of unfulled cloth on an old garment; otherwise, that which fills it up pulls away from it, the new from the old, and a worse tear is made.
2:22 也没有人把新酒装在旧皮袋里；不然，酒把皮袋胀裂，酒和皮袋就都坏了；惟把新酒装在新皮袋里。
And no one puts new wine into old wineskins; otherwise, the wine will burst the wineskins, and the wine is ruined as well as the wineskins; but new wine is put
into fresh wineskins.
2:23 当安息日，耶稣从麦地经过，祂的门徒行路的时候，掐起麦穗来。
And He passed through the grainfields on the Sabbath, and His disciples began to go along, picking the ears of grain.
2:24 法利赛人对祂说，看哪，他们为什么作安息日不可作的事？
And the Pharisees said to Him, Look! Why are they doing on the Sabbath what is not lawful?
2:25 耶稣对他们说，大卫和跟从他的人，缺乏饥饿之时所作的，你们没有念过么？
And He said to them, Have you never read what David did when he had need and became hungry, he and those with him;
2:26 他当大祭司亚比亚他的时候，怎样进了神的殿，且吃了祭司以外人不可吃的陈设饼，又给跟从他的人吃。
How he entered into the house of God during the time of Abiathar the high priest and ate the bread of the presence, which is not lawful for anyone to eat except
the priests, and he gave also to those who were with him?
2:27 祂又对他们说，安息日是为着人的，人不是为着安息日的；
And He said to them, The Sabbath came into being for man, and not man for the Sabbath.
2:28 所以人子也是安息日的主。
So then the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath.
马可福音 Mark 第 3 章
3:1 耶稣又进了会堂，在那里有一个人，枯干了一只手。
And He entered again into the synagogue; and there was a man there who had a withered hand.
3:2 众人窥探耶稣，在安息日要不要医治那人，为的是要控告祂。
And they were watching Him closely to see if He would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse Him.
3:3 耶稣就对那枯干手的人说，起来，站在当中。
And He said to the man who had the withered hand, Rise and stand in the midst.
3:4 又对他们说，在安息日行善作恶，救命害命，那样是可以的？他们都不作声。
And He said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil, to save life or to kill? But they remained silent.
3:5 耶稣怒目环视他们，因他们的心刚硬而甚忧愁，就对那人说，伸出手来。他一伸，手就复了原。
And looking around at them with anger and being greatly grieved with the hardness of their heart, He said to the man, Stretch out your hand. And he stretched it
out, and his hand was restored.
3:6 法利赛人出去，即刻同希律党人商议，怎样抵挡祂，为要除灭祂。
And the Pharisees went out and immediately took counsel with the Herodians against Him as to how they might destroy Him.
3:7 耶稣同门徒退到海边去，有许多人从加利利来跟着祂；
And Jesus withdrew with His disciples to the sea, and a great multitude from Galilee followed; and from Judea
3:8 还有许多人听见祂所作的事，就从犹太、耶路撒冷、以土买、约但河外，并推罗、西顿的四周，来到祂那里。
And from Jerusalem and from Idumea and beyond the Jordan and around Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, hearing what things He did, came to Him.
3:9 祂因为人多，就吩咐门徒叫一只小船伺候着，免得群众拥挤祂。
And He told His disciples to have a little boat ready near Him because of the crowd, so that they would not throng Him;
3:10 因为祂治好了许多人，以致凡有灾病的，都挤过来要摸祂。
For He healed many, so that as many as had afflictions pressed toward Him to touch Him.
3:11 污灵一看见祂，就俯伏在祂面前，喊叫说，你是神的儿子。
And the unclean spirits, when they beheld Him, fell before Him and cried out, saying, You are the Son of God!
3:12 耶稣再三的嘱咐它们，不要显扬祂。
And He charged them many times not to make Him known.
3:13 耶稣上了山，把祂所愿意要的人召来，他们便到祂那里去。
And He went up to the mountain and called to Him those whom He Himself wanted, and they went to Him.
3:14 祂就选立十二个人，称他们为使徒，要他们和祂同在，好差遣他们去传道，
939
And He appointed twelve, whom He also named apostles, so that they might be with Him and that He might send them to preach
3:15 又有权柄赶鬼。
And to have the authority to cast out the demons.
3:16 祂选立的十二位有：西门，祂又给他起名叫彼得；
And He appointed the twelve: and to Simon He gave the name Peter;
3:17 还有西庇太的儿子雅各，和雅各的兄弟约翰，祂又给他们起名叫半尼其，就是雷子的意思；
And James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James, and He gave them the name, Boanerges, that is, Sons of Thunder;
3:18 又有安得烈、腓力、巴多罗买、马太、多马、亚勒腓的儿子雅各、达太、热烈派的西门、
And Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Cananaean,
3:19 和出卖耶稣的加略人犹大。
And Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed Him.
3:20 耶稣进了一个屋子，群众又聚在一起，以致他们连吃饭都不能。
And He came into a house, and again a crowd came together, so that they could not even eat bread.
3:21 耶稣的亲属听见，就出来要拉住祂，因为他们说祂癫狂了。
And when His relatives heard about it, they went out to lay hold of Him, for they said, He is beside Himself.
3:22 从耶路撒冷下来的经学家说，祂有别西卜附着；又说，祂是靠着鬼王赶鬼。
And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem said, He has Beelzebul, and by the ruler of the demons He casts out the demons.
3:23 耶稣叫他们来，用比喻对他们说，撒但怎能赶逐撒但？
And He called them to Himself and said to them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan?
3:24 若是一国自相分争，那国就站立不住；
And if a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom is not able to stand;
3:25 若是一家自相分争，那家就站立不住；
And if a house is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand;
3:26 若是撒但自相攻打分争，他就站立不住，必要灭绝。
And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he is not able to stand but has come to an end.
3:27 没有人能进壮者家里，洗劫他的家具，除非先捆绑那壮者，才能洗劫他的家。
But no one can enter into the house of the strong man and thoroughly plunder his goods unless he first binds the strong man, and then he will thoroughly
plunder his house.
3:28 我实在告诉你们，人一切的罪和亵渎，无论是亵渎什么，都能得赦免；
Truly I say to you that all sins will be forgiven the sons of men, and whatever blasphemies they blaspheme,
3:29 但无论谁亵渎圣灵，却永不得赦免，乃要担当永远的罪。
But whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit has no forgiveness forever, but is guilty of an everlasting sin.
3:30 这话是因为他们说，祂有污灵附着。
He said this because they said, He has an unclean spirit.
3:31 当下耶稣的母亲和兄弟来，站在外面，打发人去叫祂。
And His mother and His brothers came, and standing outside, they sent word to Him and called Him.
3:32 有群众在耶稣周围坐着，他们就告诉祂说，看哪，你的母亲和兄弟，并你的妹妹，在外面找你。
And a crowd sat around Him, and they said to Him, Behold, Your mother and Your brothers and Your sisters are outside seeking You.
3:33 耶稣回答他们说，谁是我的母亲和弟兄？
And He answered them and said, Who is My mother and My brothers?
3:34 于是祂环视那些围祂而坐的人，说，看哪，我的母亲，我的弟兄！
And looking around at those sitting in a circle around Him, He said, Behold, My mother and My brothers!
3:35 因为凡实行神旨意的，就是我的弟兄、姊妹和母亲了。
For whoever does the will of God, this one is My brother and sister and mother.
马可福音 Mark 第 4 章
4:1 耶稣又在海边施教；有大批群众聚集到祂那里，祂只得上船坐下；船在海里，群众都朝着海站在岸上。
And again He began to teach beside the sea, and a very great crowd was gathered unto Him, so that He stepped into a boat in the sea and sat down, and all
the crowd was on the land, facing the sea.
4:2 祂就用比喻教训他们许多事，在教训之间，对他们说，
And He taught them many things in parables and said to them in His teaching:
4:3 你们要听！看哪，那撒种的出去撒种。
Listen! Behold, the sower went out to sow.
4:4 撒的时候，有的落在路旁，飞鸟来吃尽了。
And as he sowed, some seed fell beside the way, and the birds came and devoured it.
4:5 又有的落在土浅石头地上，土既不深，立刻发苗；
And other seed fell on the rocky place, where it did not have much earth, and immediately it sprang up because it had no depth of earth.
4:6 日头一出来，就晒焦了，又因没有根，便枯干了。
And when the sun rose, it was scorched; and because it had no root, it withered.
4:7 还有的落在荆棘里，荆棘长起来，把它全然挤住了，就不结实。
And other seed fell into the thorns, and the thorns came up and utterly choked it, and it yielded no fruit.
4:8 但有的落在好土里，就发苗长大，并且结实，有的结三十倍，有的六十倍，有的一百倍。
And others fell into the good earth and yielded fruit, coming up and growing; and one bore thirty-fold, and one sixty-fold, and one a hundred-fold.
4:9 祂又说，有耳可听的，就应当听。
940
And He said, He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
4:10 当耶稣独自的时候，祂周围的人，和十二个门徒，就将这些比喻问祂。
And when He was alone, those around Him, with the twelve, asked Him about the parables.
4:11 耶稣对他们说，神国的奥秘，只给你们知道，但对外人，凡事就用比喻，
And He said to them, To you it has been given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God, but to those outside, all things are in parables,
4:12 叫他们看是看见，却看不透，听是听见，却不领悟；恐怕他们回转过来，就得赦免。
In order that seeing they may see and not perceive, and hearing they may hear and not understand, lest they turn and it be forgiven them.
4:13 耶稣又对他们说，你们不晓得这比喻么？这样怎能明白一切的比喻？
And He said to them, Do you not know this parable? And how will you know all the parables?
4:14 那撒种者所撒的，乃是道。
The sower sows the word.
4:15 那撒在路旁的，就是人听了道，撒但立刻来，把撒在他们里面的道夺了去。
And these are the ones beside the way, where the word is sown; and when they hear, immediately Satan comes and takes away the word which has been sown
into them.
4:16 那撒在石头地上的，照样也是人听了道，立刻欢喜领受，
And likewise, these are the ones being sown on the rocky places, who, when they hear the word, immediately receive it with joy.
4:17 但他们里面没有根，不过是暂时的；及至为道遭遇患难或逼迫，就立刻绊跌了。
Yet they have no root in themselves, but last only for a time; then when affliction or persecution occurs because of the word, immediately they are stumbled.
4:18 还有那撒在荆棘里的，就是人听了道，
And others are the ones being sown into the thorns; these are the ones who have heard the word,
4:19 后来有今世的思虑、钱财的迷惑、以及其他的贪欲，进来把道全然挤住了，道就不能结实。
And the anxieties of the age and the deceitfulness of riches and the lusts for other things enter in and utterly choke the word, and it becomes unfruitful.
4:20 但那撒在好土里的，就是人听了道，接受了，并且结实，有的三十倍，有的六十倍，有的一百倍。
And these are the ones sown on the good earth: those who hear the word and receive it and bear fruit, one thirtyfold, and one sixtyfold, and one a hundredfold.
4:21 耶稣又对他们说，灯拿来，岂是要放在斗底下，或床底下？不是要放在灯台上么？
And He said to them, Does the lamp come so that it may be placed under the bushel or under the bed? Does it not come that it may be placed on the lampstand?
4:22 因为隐藏的事没有不被显明的，隐瞒的事没有不暴露出来的。
For nothing is hidden except that it may be manifested, nor has anything become concealed but that it may come into the open.
4:23 有耳可听的，就应当听。
If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.
4:24 又对他们说，你们要留心所听的。你们用什么量器量给人，也必用什么量器量给你们，并且要加给你们。
And He said to them, Take heed what you hear. With what measure you measure, it shall be measured to you, and it shall be added to you.
4:25 因为有的，还要给他；没有的，连他所有的，也要从他夺去。
For he who has, it shall be given to him; and he who does not have, even what he has shall be taken away from him.
4:26 耶稣又说，神的国是这样，如同人把种子撒在地上，
And He said, So is the kingdom of God: as if a man cast seed on the earth,
4:27 黑夜睡觉，白日起来，这种子就发芽渐长，怎么会这样，他并不知道。
And sleeps and rises night and day, and the seed sprouts and lengthens -- how, he does not know.
4:28 地生五谷，是出于自然的：先发苗，后长穗，再后穗上结成饱满的子粒。
The earth bears fruit by itself: first a blade, then an ear, then full grain in the ear.
4:29 谷既熟了，他立刻用镰刀去割，因为收割的时候到了。
But when the fruit is ripe, immediately he sends forth the sickle, because the harvest has come.
4:30 耶稣又说，神的国我们可以比作什么？可用什么比喻表明？
And He said, How shall we liken the kingdom of God, or in what parable shall we present it?
4:31 好像一粒芥菜种，种在地里的时候，比地上百种都小，
It is like a mustard seed, which, when it is sown on the earth, is smaller than all the seeds on the earth.
4:32 种下以后，生长起来，却比各样的菜都大，且长出大枝子，甚至天空的飞鸟可以栖宿在它的荫下。
And when it is sown, it comes up and becomes greater than all the herbs and produces great branches, so that the birds of heaven can roost under its shade.
4:33 耶稣用许多这样的比喻，照他们所能听的，对他们讲道；
And in many such parables He spoke the word to them as they were able to hear;
4:34 若不用比喻，就不对他们讲；私下里才把一切讲解给自己的门徒听。
And without a parable He did not speak to them; but privately to His own disciples He explained all things.
4:35 当天黄昏，耶稣对门徒说，我们渡到对岸去。
And He said to them on that day when evening had fallen, Let us go over to the other side.
4:36 门徒离开群众，耶稣仍在船上，他们就把祂带去，也有别的船和祂同行。
And leaving the crowd, they took Him along, just as He was, in the boat; and other boats were with Him.
4:37 忽然起了大风暴，波浪打入船内，甚至船要满了水。
And there arose a great windstorm, and the waves beat into the boat, so that the boat was already beginning to fill up.
4:38 耶稣竟在船尾靠着枕头睡着。门徒叫醒了祂，对祂说，夫子，我们丧命，你不顾么？
And He was in the stern, sleeping on the cushion. And they woke Him and said to Him, Teacher, does it not matter to You that we are perishing?
4:39 耶稣醒来，斥责风，又向海说，安静吧！不要发声！风就止住，大大的平静了。
And having awoken, He rebuked the wind and said to the sea, Be silent! Be still! And the wind ceased and there was a great calm.
4:40 耶稣对他们说，为什么这样胆怯？你们怎么没有信心？
And He said to them, Why are you cowardly in this way? How is it that you do not have faith?
4:41 他们就大大的惧怕，彼此说，这人到底是谁，连风和海也听从了祂？
And they became greatly frightened and said to one another, Who then is this, that even the wind and the sea obey Him?
941
马可福音 Mark 第 5 章
5:1 他们来到海的对岸，格拉森人的地方。
And they came to the other side of the sea, into the region of the Gerasenes.
5:2 耶稣一下船，立即有一个污灵附着的人，从坟茔里出来迎着祂。
And when He came out of the boat, immediately, from out of the tombs, a man with an unclean spirit met Him,
5:3 那人经常以坟茔为住处；再没有人能捆住他，就是用铁链也不能；
Who had his dwelling among the tombs. And no one could bind him any longer, not even with a chain,
5:4 因为人屡次用脚镣和铁链捆锁他，铁链竟被他挣断，脚镣也被他弄碎，总没有人能制伏他。
Because he had often been bound with shackles and chains, and the chains had been torn apart by him, and the shackles smashed, and no one was strong
enough to subdue him.
5:5 他昼夜常在坟茔和山中喊叫，又用石头砍自己。
And continually night and day, among the tombs and in the mountains, he cried out and gashed himself with stones.
5:6 他远远的看见耶稣，就跑过去拜祂，
And when he saw Jesus from a distance, he ran and worshipped Him,
5:7 大声喊叫说，至高神的儿子耶稣，我与你何干？我指着神切求你，不要叫我受苦。
And crying out with a loud voice, he said, What do I have to do with You, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I adjure You by God, do not torment me!
5:8 因耶稣曾对他说，污灵，从这人身上出来。
For He had said to him, Come out of the man, unclean spirit.
5:9 耶稣问他说，你名叫什么？他说，我名叫群，因为我们众多。
And He questioned him, What is your name? And he said to Him, Legion is my name, because we are many.
5:10 他就再三的央求耶稣，不要打发它们离开那地方。
And he entreated Him much not to send them out of the region.
5:11 在那里山坡上，有一大群猪正在吃食。
Now there on the mountainside was a great herd of hogs feeding.
5:12 它们就央求耶稣说，打发我们到猪群去，我们好进入它们里面。
And they entreated Him, saying, Send us to the hogs, so that we may enter into them.
5:13 耶稣就准了它们；污灵便出来，进入猪里去；于是那群猪闯下山崖，投入海里，约有二千，都淹死在海中。
And He gave them permission. And the unclean spirits came out and entered into the hogs, and the herd, about two thousand, rushed down the steep slope into
the sea, and they were drowned in the sea.
5:14 放猪的就逃跑了，去告诉城里和乡下的人。众人就来，要看所发生的是什么事。
And those who were feeding them fled and reported it in the city and in the countryside. And they came to see what had happened.
5:15 他们来到耶稣那里，看见那鬼附的人，就是从前被群鬼所附的，坐着，身穿衣服，神志清醒，他们就害怕。
And they came to Jesus and saw the demon possessed man sitting down, clothed, and sane, the man who had had the legion, and they became frightened.
5:16 看见这事的，便将鬼附之人所遇见的，和那群猪的事，都对人述说。
And those who had seen it related to them how it had happened to the demon possessed man and concerning the hogs.
5:17 他们就恳求耶稣离开他们的境界。
And they began to entreat Him to depart from their borders.
5:18 耶稣上船的时候，那被鬼附过的人，恳求要和祂同在。
And as He got into the boat, the man who had been demon possessed begged Him that he might stay with Him.
5:19 耶稣不许，却对他说，你回家去，到你的亲属那里，将主为你作了何等大的事，并怎样怜悯你，都告诉他们。
And He did not allow him, but said to him, Go to your house, to your own people, and report to them what great things the Lord has done for you, and how He
has had mercy on you.
5:20 那人走了，就在低加波利，传扬耶稣为他作了何等大的事，众人就都希奇。
And he departed and began to proclaim in Decapolis what great things Jesus had done for him, and all marveled.
5:21 耶稣坐船又渡到对岸去，就有大批的群众聚集到祂那里；祂正在海边。
And when Jesus had crossed over again in the boat to the other side, a great crowd gathered to Him, and He was beside the sea.
5:22 有一个管会堂的，名叫睚鲁，来见耶稣，就俯伏在祂脚前，
And one of the rulers of the synagogue came, Jairus by name, and seeing Him, fell at His feet;
5:23 再三的求祂说，我的小女儿快要死了，求你去按手在她身上，使她得拯救，可以活着。
And he entreated Him much, saying, My little daughter is at the point of death. Please come and lay Your hands on her that she may be healed and live.
5:24 耶稣就和他同去，有大批的群众跟随祂，并拥挤祂。
And He went with him, and a great crowd followed Him and pressed upon Him.
5:25 有一个女人，患了十二年血漏，
And a woman was there, who had a flow of blood for twelve years.
5:26 在好些医生手里，受了许多苦，又花尽了她所有的，一点也不见好，反倒更重了。
She had suffered much under many physicians and had spent everything she had and had not benefited at all, but rather became worse.
5:27 她听见耶稣的事，就从群众后面来摸耶稣的衣服。
When she heard the things concerning Jesus, she came up in the crowd behind Him and touched His garment,
5:28 因为她说，我只要摸着祂的衣服，就必得拯救。
For she said, If I touch even His garments, I will be healed.
5:29 于是她血漏的源头立刻干了，她便觉得身上的灾病得了医治。
And immediately the fountain of her blood was dried up, and she knew in her body that she was cured of the affliction.
5:30 耶稣里面顿觉有能力从自己身上出去，就在群众当中转过身来，说，谁摸我的衣服？
942
And immediately Jesus, realizing in Himself that power had gone out of Him, turned around in the crowd and said, Who touched My garments?
5:31 门徒对祂说，你看群众拥挤你，还说谁摸我么？
And His disciples said to Him, You see the crowd pressing upon You and You say, Who touched Me?
5:32 耶稣周围观看，要见作这事的女人。
And He looked around to see her who had done this.
5:33 那女人知道在自己身上所发生的事，就恐惧战兢，来俯伏在耶稣跟前，将实情全告诉祂。
But the woman, frightened and trembling, knew what had happened to her, and she came and fell down before Him and told Him the whole truth.
5:34 耶稣对她说，女儿，你的信救了你，平平安安的去吧！你的灾病痊愈了。
And He said to her, Daughter, your faith has healed you. Go in peace and be well from your affliction.
5:35 耶稣还说话的时候，有人从管会堂的家里来，说，你的女儿死了，何必还烦扰夫子？
While He was still speaking, some came from the house of the ruler of the synagogue, saying, Your daughter has died. Why bother the Teacher any longer?
5:36 耶稣从旁听见所说的话，就对管会堂的说，不要怕，只要信！
But Jesus, overhearing the word spoken, said to the ruler of the synagogue, Do not be afraid -- only believe.
5:37 除了彼得、雅各和雅各的兄弟约翰，祂不许任何人跟着祂。
And He did not allow anyone to accompany Him except Peter and James and John the brother of James.
5:38 他们来到管会堂的家里，耶稣看见乱嚷，有人哭泣，有人大大哀号。
And they came to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and He saw a commotion and people weeping and wailing greatly.
5:39 祂就进去，对他们说，为什么乱嚷哭泣？小孩子不是死了，乃是睡了。
And He entered in and said to them, Why do you make a commotion and weep? The child has not died but is sleeping.
5:40 他们就嗤笑祂。祂既把众人都撵出去，就带着小孩子的父母，和同着祂的人，进了小孩子所在的地方；
And they laughed scornfully at Him. But He, putting them all out, took the father of the child and the mother and those with Him and went in to where the child
was.
5:41 就拉着小孩子的手，对她说，大利大古米！（翻出来就是，闺女，我吩咐你起来！）
And He took hold of the child's hand and said to her, Talitha koum! which being interpreted is, Little girl, to you I say, Arise!
5:42 那闺女便立刻起来行走，那时她已经十二岁了。他们立即大大的惊奇。
And immediately the little girl rose up and walked about, for she was twelve years old. And immediately, they were amazed with great amazement.
5:43 耶稣再三的嘱咐他们，不要叫人知道这事，又吩咐给她东西吃。
And He strongly commanded them that no one should know about this, and told them to give her something to eat.
马可福音 Mark 第 6 章
6:1 耶稣离开那里，来到自己的家乡，门徒也跟着祂。
And He went out from there and came into His own country, and His disciples followed Him.
6:2 到了安息日，祂在会堂里施教；许多人听见，就甚惊讶，说，这人从那里得来这些事？所赐给祂的是什么样的智慧！这样的异能竟然经祂的手行出来！
And when the Sabbath had come, He began to teach in the synagogue; and many hearing were astounded, saying, Where did this man get these things? And
what is this wisdom given to this man, and how is it that such works of power take place through His hands?
6:3 这不是那木匠么？不是马利亚的儿子，雅各、约西、犹大、西门的长兄么？祂妹妹们不也是在我们这里么？他们就因祂绊跌。
Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, and brother of James and Joses and Judas and Simon? And are not His sisters here with us? And they were stumbled in
Him.
6:4 耶稣对他们说，申言者除了在本地、亲属并本家之外，没有不被人尊敬的。
And Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor except in his own country and among his own relatives and in his own house.
6:5 耶稣在那里就不能行什么异能，不过按手在几个病人身上，治好他们。
And He could not do any work of power there, except to lay His hands upon a few of the sick and heal them.
6:6 祂也希奇他们不信，就周游四围乡村施教去了。
And He marveled because of their unbelief; and He went around the villages in a circuit, teaching.
6:7 耶稣叫了十二个门徒来，差遣他们两个两个的出去，赐给他们权柄，制伏污灵；
And He called the twelve to Him and began to send them out two by two and gave them authority over the unclean spirits;
6:8 并且吩咐他们，行路的时候，除了手杖以外，什么都不要带，不要带食物和口袋，腰袋里也不要带钱；
And He charged them not to take anything for the journey except only a staff: no bread, no bag, no money in their belt;
6:9 只要穿鞋，也不要穿两件里衣。
But to have sandals tied on; and said, Do not put on two tunics.
6:10 又对他们说，你们无论到那里，进了一家，就住在那里，直到离开那地方。
And He said to them, Wherever you enter into a house, there remain until you depart from that place.
6:11 无论何处不接待你们，又不听你们，你们离开那里的时候，就把脚上的尘土跺下去，作反对他们的见证。
And whatever place does not receive you nor hear you, as you go out from there, shake off the dust under your feet for a testimony against them.
6:12 门徒就出去，传道叫人悔改，
And they went forth and proclaimed that men should repent,
6:13 又赶出许多鬼，用油抹了许多病人，治好他们。
And they cast out many demons and anointed many of the sick with oil and healed them.
6:14 耶稣的名声传扬出去，希律王也听见了。有人说，施浸者约翰从死人中复活了，所以这些异能发显在他身上。
And King Herod heard of it, for His name had become known, and they said, John the baptizer has been raised from the dead, and because of this these works
of power are operating through him.
6:15 但别人说，祂是以利亚；又有人说，祂是申言者，正像申言者中的一位。
But others said, He is Elijah; and others said, He is a prophet, like one of the prophets.
6:16 希律听见，却说，是我所斩的约翰复活了。
943
But Herod, hearing of it, said, He whom I beheaded, John, this one was raised!
6:17 原来希律为他兄弟腓力的妻子希罗底的缘故，差人拿住约翰，把他捆锁在监里，因为希律已经娶了那妇人。
For Herod himself had sent men and seized John and bound him in prison on account of Herodias, the wife of Philip his brother, because he had married her.
6:18 约翰曾对希律说，你不可娶你兄弟的妻子。
For John had been saying to Herod, It is not lawful for you to have the wife of your brother.
6:19 于是希罗底怀恨他，想要杀他，只是不能。
Thus, Herodias had a grudge against him and wanted to kill him and could not,
6:20 因为希律晓得约翰是义人，是圣人，所以敬畏他，并且保护他；虽听他讲论，甚感困惑，却仍喜欢听他。
For Herod feared John, knowing that he was a righteous and holy man, and kept him safe. And when he heard him, he was very perplexed yet heard him gladly.
6:21 有一天，机会来了。希律在他的生日，为他的大臣和千夫长，并加利利的首领，摆设筵席。
And an opportune day came, when Herod on his birthday made a banquet for his courtiers and the commanders and the leading men of Galilee.
6:22 希罗底的女儿进来跳舞，使希律和同席的人都欢喜。王就对闺女说，你随意向我求什么，我都必给你。
And when the daughter of Herodias herself entered and danced, she pleased Herod and those reclining at table with him. The king said to the girl, Ask of me
whatever you want, and I will give it to you.
6:23 又极力对她起誓说，你无论向我求什么，就是我国的一半，我也必给你。
And he swore to her earnestly, Whatever you ask of me, I will give to you, up to half of my kingdom.
6:24 她就出去，对她母亲说，我该求什么？她母亲说，施浸者约翰的头。
And she went out and said to her mother, What should I ask for? And she said, The head of John the baptizer.
6:25 她随即匆忙的进到王那里，求他说，我愿王立时把施浸者约翰的头，放在盘子上给我。
And coming in immediately with haste to the king, she asked, saying, I want you to give me at once the head of John the Baptist on a platter.
6:26 王虽甚忧愁，但因所起的誓，又因同席的人，就不愿拒绝。
And the king was very grieved, yet because of the oaths and those reclining at table, he did not want to refuse her.
6:27 随即差遣一个卫兵，吩咐拿约翰的头来。卫兵就去，在监里斩了约翰，
And immediately the king sent a guard and ordered him to bring his head. And he went out and beheaded him in the prison,
6:28 把他的头放在盘子上，拿来给闺女，闺女就给她母亲。
And brought his head on a platter, and gave it to the girl, and the girl gave it to her mother.
6:29 约翰的门徒听见了，就来把他的尸体领去，放在坟墓里。
And when his disciples heard about it, they came and took his corpse and put it in a tomb.
6:30 使徒聚集到耶稣那里，将他们所作、所教训的一切，都报告给祂。
And the apostles gathered together to Jesus and reported to Him all that they did and all that they taught.
6:31 耶稣就对他们说，来吧，你们暗暗的到旷野地方歇一歇。这是因为来往的人多，他们连吃饭也没有机会。
And He said to them, Come by yourselves privately to a deserted place and rest a while. For there were many coming and going, and they did not even have
opportunity to eat.
6:32 他们就坐船，暗暗的往旷野地方去。
And they went away in the boat to a deserted place privately.
6:33 许多人看见他们去，认出了他们，就从各城步行，一同跑到那里，比他们先到。
And many saw them going away and recognized them, and they ran together there on foot from all the cities and got there before them.
6:34 耶稣出来，看见大批的群众，就对他们动了慈心，因为他们如同羊没有牧人一样；祂就开始教训他们许多事。
And getting out, He saw a great crowd, and He was moved with compassion for them because they were like sheep not having a shepherd, and He began to
teach them many things.
6:35 时候已经晚了，门徒到祂跟前来，说，这是野地，时候也晚了，
And when the hour had already become late, His disciples came to Him and said, This place is deserted, and the hour is already late;
6:36 请解散群众，他们好往周围田舍村庄里去，为自己买吃的。
Send them away so that they may go into the surrounding fields and villages and buy for themselves something to eat.
6:37 耶稣回答他们说，你们给他们吃吧。他们说，要我们去买二百银币的饼，给他们吃么？
But He answered and said to them, You give them something to eat. And they said to Him, Shall we go away and buy two hundred denarii worth of bread and
give it to them to eat?
6:38 祂说，你们有多少饼？去看看。他们知道了，就说，五个，还有两条鱼。
And He said to them, How many loaves do you have? Go and see. And when they found out, they said, Five, and two fish.
6:39 耶稣吩咐他们叫众人一组一组的，坐在青草地上。
And He ordered them to have all recline by companies on the green grass.
6:40 众人就一班一班的坐下，有一百一班的，有五十一班的。
And they sat down in groups, by hundreds and by fifties.
6:41 耶稣拿着五个饼两条鱼，望着天祝福，擘开饼，递给门徒，摆在众人面前，也把那两条鱼分给众人。
And He took the five loaves and the two fish and, looking up to heaven, He blessed and broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples to set before them; and
the two fish He divided among all.
6:42 众人都吃，并且吃饱了。
And they all ate and were satisfied.
6:43 门徒就拾起零碎，装满了十二篮子，还有鱼的零碎。
And they took up twelve full handbaskets of the broken pieces of bread and of the fish.
6:44 吃饼的男人，共有五千。
And those who had eaten the loaves were five thousand men.
6:45 耶稣随即催门徒上船，先到对岸伯赛大去，等祂解散群众。
And immediately He compelled His disciples to step into the boat and go before to the other side, toward Bethsaida, while He sent the crowd away.
6:46 祂既辞别了他们，就往山上去祷告。
And after He said farewell to them, He went away to the mountain to pray.
944
6:47 到了晚上，船在海中，耶稣独自在岸上，
And when evening fell, the boat was in the midst of the sea and He was alone on the land.
6:48 看见门徒，因风不顺，摇橹甚苦。夜里约有四更天，祂在海上走向他们，想要走过他们去。
And seeing them distressed as they rowed, for the wind was contrary to them, He came toward them about the fourth watch of the night, walking on the sea,
and He intended to pass by them.
6:49 门徒看见祂在海上走，以为是鬼怪，就喊叫起来；
But when they saw Him walking on the sea, they thought that it was a ghost, and they cried out,
6:50 因为他们都看见了祂，且甚惊慌。耶稣立即同他们讲话，对他们说，放心，是我，不要怕。
For they all saw Him and were startled. But immediately He spoke with them and said to them, Take courage. It is I. Do not be afraid.
6:51 于是到他们那里，上了船，风就止住了。他们心里极其惊奇，
And He went up unto them into the boat, and the wind ceased. And they were greatly astonished in themselves beyond measure,
6:52 因为他们不领悟分饼的事，心里还是顽固。
For they did not understand concerning the loaves, but rather their heart was hardened.
6:53 他们既渡过去，来到革尼撒勒地方，就靠了岸。
And they crossed over to the land and came to Gennesaret and moored there.
6:54 一下船，众人立刻认出祂来，
And when they came out of the boat, immediately the people recognized Him,
6:55 就跑遍那一带地方，听见祂在何处，便将有病的人，用褥子抬到那里。
And they ran about that whole region and began to carry around on mats those who were ill to any place where they heard that He was.
6:56 凡耶稣所到的地方，或村中，或城里，或乡间，他们都将病弱的放在市场上，求耶稣准他们至少摸祂的衣服穗子；凡摸着祂的人，都得了拯救。
And wherever He entered into villages or into cities or into the countryside, they laid those who were sick in the marketplaces and begged Him that they might
touch if even the fringe of His garment; and as many as touched Him were healed.
马可福音 Mark 第 7 章
7:1 有法利赛人和几个经学家，从耶路撒冷来到耶稣那里聚集。
And the Pharisees and some of the scribes gathered together to Him when they had come from Jerusalem
7:2 他们曾看见祂的门徒中，有人用俗手，就是没有洗的手吃饭。
And had seen that some of His disciples ate bread with common hands, that is, unwashed.
7:3 （原来法利赛人和所有的犹太人，都拘守古人的传统，若不仔细洗手，就不吃饭；
(For the Pharisees and all the Jews, unless they carefully wash their hands, do not eat, holding the tradition of the elders;
7:4 从市场上来，若不洗浴，也不吃饭；他们所沿袭拘守的，还有好些别的事，就如浸洗杯、罐、铜器等。）
And when they come from the marketplace, unless they wash themselves, they do not eat. And there are many other things which they have received to hold, the
dipping of cups and pitchers and copper vessels.)
7:5 法利赛人和经学家就问祂说，你的门徒为什么不照古人的传统行事，用俗手吃饭？
And the Pharisees and the scribes questioned Him, Why do Your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat bread with common hands?
7:6 耶稣对他们说，以赛亚指着你们假冒为善之人所申言的，是对的，如经上所记，“这百姓用嘴唇尊敬我，心却远离我；
And He said to them, Well has Isaiah prophesied concerning you hypocrites, as it is written, "This people honors Me with their lips, but their heart stays far away
from Me;
7:7 他们敬拜我也是徒然，因为他们将人的吩咐当作教训教导人。”
But in vain do they worship Me, teaching as teachings the commandments of men.''
7:8 你们是离弃神的诫命，拘守人的传统。
While leaving the commandment of God, you hold the tradition of men.
7:9 祂又说，你们巧妙的废弃神的诫命，为要遵守自己的传统。
And He said to them, You nicely set aside the commandment of God that you may keep your tradition.
7:10 摩西说，“当孝敬父母，”又说，“咒骂父母的，要被处死。”
For Moses said, "Honor your father and your mother,'' and, "He who speaks evil of father or mother, let him be put to death.''
7:11 你们倒说，人若对父母说，我所当供养你的，已经作了各耳板，（就是礼物，）
But you say: If a man says to his father or his mother, Whatever you would have been profited by me is now corban (that is, a gift to God),
7:12 你们就不容许他再为父母作任何事。
Allow him to no longer do anything for his father or his mother.
7:13 这就是你们借着所传授的传统，使神的话失去效力和权柄。你们还作许多这类的事。
Thus you deprive the word of God of its authority by your tradition which you have handed down. And many things similar to these you do.
7:14 耶稣又叫了群众来，对他们说，你们众人要听我，也要领悟。
And He called the crowd to Him again and said to them, Hear Me, all of you, and understand.
7:15 从人外面进去的，没有一样能污秽人，惟有从人里面出来的，乃能污秽人。
There is nothing outside of a man which entering into him can defile him, but the things coming out of a man are the things which defile a man.
7:16 凡有耳可听的，就应当听。
If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.
7:17 耶稣离开群众，进了屋子，门徒就将这比喻问祂。
And when He entered into a house from the crowd, His disciples questioned Him concerning the parable.
7:18 祂对他们说，连你们也是这样不领悟么？岂不知凡从外面进入的，不能污秽人？
And He said to them, Are you also in the same manner without understanding? Do you not understand that everything that enters from outside into a man is not
able to defile him,
7:19 因为不是进入他的心，乃是进入他的肚腹，又排到茅厕里。祂这样说，就把各样的食物都洁净了。
945
Because it does not enter into his heart, but into the stomach, and goes out into the drain? (In saying this, He made all foods clean.)
7:20 祂又说，从人里面出来的，那才污秽人。
And He said, That which goes out of the man, that defiles the man.
7:21 因为从里面，就是从人心里，发出恶念、淫乱、偷窃、凶杀、
For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil reasonings, fornications, thefts, murders,
7:22 奸淫、贪婪、邪恶、诡诈、淫荡、嫉妒、谤讟、狂傲、愚妄；
Adulteries, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, licentiousness, envy, blasphemy, arrogance, foolishness.
7:23 这一切的恶，都是从里面发出来，且能污秽人。
All these wicked things proceed from within and defile the man.
7:24 耶稣从那里起身，往推罗、西顿的境内去。进了一家，不愿意人知道，却隐藏不住。
And He rose up from there and went away into the borders of Tyre and Sidon. And entering into a house, He wanted no one to know about it; yet He could not
escape notice.
7:25 有一个妇人，她的小女儿有污灵附着，听见耶稣的事，立即来俯伏在祂脚前。
But a woman whose little daughter had an unclean spirit heard about Him, and immediately she came and fell at His feet.
7:26 这妇人是希利尼人，属叙利腓尼基族。她求耶稣赶出那鬼，离开她的女儿。
Now the woman was a Greek, Syrophoenician by race. And she asked Him to cast the demon out of her daughter.
7:27 耶稣对她说，让儿女们先吃饱，因为不好拿儿女的饼丢给小狗。
And He said to her, First let the children be satisfied, for it is not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs.
7:28 妇人回答祂说，主阿，是的，就是小狗在桌子底下，也吃孩子们的碎渣。
And she answered and said to Him, Yes, Lord, but even the little dogs under the table eat of the little children's crumbs.
7:29 耶稣对她说，因这句话，你去吧，鬼已经离开你的女儿了。
And He said to her, Because of this word, go. The demon has gone out of your daughter.
7:30 她就回家去，见小孩子躺在床榻上，鬼已经出去了。
And she went away to her house and found the little child lying on the couch and the demon gone out.
7:31 耶稣又离开推罗的境界，经过西顿，来到低加波利境内的加利利海。
And again He came out of the borders of Tyre and came through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee in the midst of the borders of Decapolis.
7:32 有人带着一个耳聋舌结的人，来就耶稣，求祂按手在他身上。
And they brought to Him one who was deaf and who spoke with difficulty, and they entreated Him to lay His hand on him.
7:33 耶稣暗暗的领他离开群众，到一边去，就用指头探入他的耳朵，吐唾沫抹他的舌头，
And He took him aside from the crowd privately and put His fingers into his ears, and He spat and touched his tongue.
7:34 望天叹息，对他说，以法大！就是，开了吧！
And looking up to heaven, He groaned and said to him, Ephphatha! that is, Be opened!
7:35 他的耳朵立即开了，舌结也解了，说话也清楚了。
And immediately his ears were opened, and the bond on his tongue was released and he spoke clearly.
7:36 耶稣嘱咐他们，不要告诉人。但祂越发嘱咐他们，他们越发大大的传扬开了。
And He charged them not to tell anyone. But the more He charged them, so much the more they proclaimed it.
7:37 众人分外惊讶，说，祂所有的事都作得好；祂既叫聋的听见，又叫哑的说话。
And they were utterly astounded, saying, He has done all things well; He makes both the deaf hear and the dumb speak.
马可福音 Mark 第 8 章
8:1 那些日子，又有大批的群众，他们没有什么吃的；耶稣叫门徒来，对他们说，
In those days, since there was again a great crowd and they did not have anything to eat, He called the disciples to Him and said to them,
8:2 我对这群众动了慈心，因为他们同我在一起已经三天，也没有什么吃的了。
I am moved with compassion for the crowd, because for three days now they have remained with Me and they do not have anything to eat.
8:3 我若解散他们饿着回家，他们必在路上困乏，况且其中有些是从远处来的。
And if I send them away to their home hungry, they will faint on the way; and some of them have come from a distance.
8:4 门徒回答祂说，在这旷野，从那里能得饼，叫这些人吃饱？
And His disciples answered Him, Where will anyone be able to get enough to satisfy these people with bread here in this desolate place?
8:5 耶稣问他们说，你们有多少饼？他们说，七个。
And He asked them, How many loaves do you have? And they said, Seven.
8:6 祂吩咐群众坐在地上，就拿着七个饼，祝谢了，擘开，递给门徒，叫他们摆开，他们就摆在群众面前。
And He charged the crowd to recline on the ground. And taking the seven loaves, He gave thanks and broke them, and gave them to His disciples to set before
them, and they set them before the crowd.
8:7 他们还有几条小鱼，耶稣祝福了，就吩咐这些也要摆开。
And they had a few small fish, and having blessed them, He said that these also should be set before them.
8:8 众人都吃，并且吃饱了，拾起剩下的零碎，有七筐子。
And they ate and were satisfied. And they took up the surplus of broken pieces, seven baskets.
8:9 人数约有四千。耶稣解散了他们，
And there were about four thousand people. And He sent them away.
8:10 立即同门徒上船，来到大玛努他境内。
And immediately He got into the boat with His disciples and came into the parts of Dalmanutha.
8:11 法利赛人出来，同耶稣辩论，向祂寻求一个从天上来的神迹，想要试诱祂。
And the Pharisees came out and began to dispute with Him, seeking from Him a sign from heaven and tempting Him.
8:12 耶稣灵里深深的叹息说，这世代为什么寻求神迹？我实在告诉你们，没有神迹给这世代了。
946
And He groaned deeply in His spirit and said, Why does this generation seek a sign? Truly I tell you, No sign shall be given to this generation.
8:13 祂就离开他们，又上船往对岸去了。
And leaving them, He again got into a boat and went away to the other side.
8:14 门徒忘了带饼，船上除了一个饼，他们身边再没有别的食物。
And they forgot to take bread, and except for one loaf, they did not have any with them in the boat.
8:15 耶稣嘱咐他们说，你们要当心，提防法利赛人的酵，和希律的酵。
And He charged them, saying, Watch! Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod.
8:16 他们就彼此议论，说，这是因为我们没有饼吧。
And they reasoned with one another, saying, It is because we do not have bread.
8:17 耶稣知道了，就对他们说，你们为什么因为没有饼就议论？你们还不明白，还不领悟么？你们的心还是顽固么？
And Jesus, knowing it, said to them, Why are you reasoning because you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive nor understand? Do you have your heart
hardened?
8:18 你们有眼睛，看不见么？有耳朵，听不见么？也不记得么？
Having eyes, do you not see? And having ears, do you not hear? And do you not remember?
8:19 我擘开那五个饼分给五千人，你们拾起的零碎，装满了多少篮子？他们说，十二个。
When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many handbaskets full of broken pieces did you take up? They said to Him, Twelve.
8:20 那七个饼分给四千人，你们拾起的零碎，装满了多少筐子？他们说，七个。
And when I broke the seven for the four thousand, how many baskets filled with broken pieces did you take up? And they said, Seven.
8:21 耶稣对他们说，你们还是不领悟么？
And He said to them, Do you not yet understand?
8:22 他们来到伯赛大，有人带一个瞎子来，求耶稣摸他。
And they came to Bethsaida. And they brought to Him a blind man and entreated Him to touch him.
8:23 耶稣拉着瞎子的手，领他到村外，就吐唾沫在他眼睛上，按手在他身上，问他说，你看见什么没有？
And He took hold of the hand of the blind man and led him forth outside the village. And He spat on his eyes and laid His hands on him and asked him, Do you
see anything?
8:24 他就往上一看，说，我看见人了，见他们像树行走。
And he looked up and said, I see men, for I see them as trees, walking.
8:25 于是耶稣又按手在他眼睛上，他定睛一看，就复了原，样样都看得清楚了。
Then again He laid His hands upon his eyes, and the man looked intently and was restored, and he began to see all things clearly.
8:26 耶稣打发他回家，说，连这村子你也不要进去。
And He sent him to his house, saying, Do not even enter into the village.
8:27 耶稣和门徒出去，往该撒利亚腓立比的村庄去。祂在路上问门徒说，人说我是谁？
And Jesus and His disciples went out into the villages of Caesarea Philippi. And on the way He questioned His disciples, saying to them, Who do men say that I
am?
8:28 他们对祂说，有人说是施浸者约翰，另有人说是以利亚，还有别人说是申言者中的一位。
And they told Him, saying, John the Baptist; and others, Elijah; but others, one of the prophets.
8:29 祂问他们说，你们说我是谁？彼得回答祂说，你是基督。
And He questioned them, But you, who do you say that I am? Peter answered and said to Him, You are the Christ!
8:30 祂就严正的警告他们，不要把祂的事告诉人。
And He charged them not to tell anyone concerning Him.
8:31 于是祂教训他们说，人子必须受许多的苦，被长老、祭司长和经学家弃绝，并且被杀，过三天复活。
And He began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes and be killed and
after three days rise.
8:32 耶稣明明的说这话，彼得就拉祂到一边，责劝祂。
And He spoke this word openly. And Peter took Him aside and began to rebuke Him.
8:33 耶稣转过身来，看着门徒，责备彼得说，撒但，退我后面去吧！因为你不思念神的事，只思念人的事。
But turning around and looking at His disciples, He rebuked Peter and said, Get behind Me, Satan! For you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on
the things of men.
8:34 于是耶稣叫群众同祂的门徒来，对他们说，若有人要跟从我，就当否认己，背起他的十字架，并跟从我。
And He called the crowd to Him with His disciples and said to them, If anyone wants to follow after Me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow Me.
8:35 因为凡要救自己魂生命的，必丧失魂生命；凡为我和福音丧失自己魂生命的，必救了魂生命。
For whoever wants to save his soul-life shall lose it; but whoever will lose his soul-life for My sake and the gospel's shall save it.
8:36 人就是赚得全世界，赔上自己的魂生命，有什么益处？
For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul-life?
8:37 人还能拿什么换自己的魂生命？
For what could a man give in exchange for his soul-life?
8:38 凡在这淫乱罪恶的世代，把我和我的话当作可耻的，人子在祂父的荣耀里，同着圣天使来临的时候，也要把那人当作可耻的。
For whoever is ashamed of Me and of My words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of Man also will be ashamed of him when He comes in the
glory of His Father with the holy angels.
马可福音 Mark 第 9 章
9:1 耶稣又对他们说，我实在告诉你们，站在这里的，有人还没有尝到死味，必看见神的国带着能力来临。
And He said to them, Truly I say to you, there are some of those standing here who shall by no means taste death until they see the kingdom of God having come
in power.
947
9:2 过了六天，耶稣带着彼得、雅各和约翰，暗暗的领开他们上了高山，就在他们面前变了形像，
And after six days Jesus took with Him Peter and James and John, and brought them up alone into a high mountain privately. And He was transfigured before
them,
9:3 衣服放光，白到极点，地上漂布的，没有一个能漂得那样白。
And His garments became sparkling, exceedingly white, such as no fuller on earth could whiten them.
9:4 有以利亚同着摩西向他们显现，并且同耶稣谈话。
And Elijah with Moses appeared to them, and they were conversing with Jesus.
9:5 彼得对耶稣说，拉比，我们在这里真好，可以搭三座帐棚，一座为你，一座为摩西，一座为以利亚。
And Peter answered and said to Jesus, Rabbi, it is good for us to be here; and let us make three tents, one for You and one for Moses and one for Elijah.
9:6 彼得不知道该说什么才好，因为他们甚是惧怕。
For he did not know what to answer, for they had become extremely frightened.
9:7 有一朵云彩来遮盖他们，又有声音从云彩里出来，说，这是我的爱子，你们要听祂。
And a cloud appeared, overshadowing them, and a voice came out of the cloud: This is My Son, the Beloved. Hear Him!
9:8 他们忽然周围一看，不再见一人，只见耶稣同他们在那里。
And suddenly, when they looked around, they no longer saw anyone, but Jesus only with them.
9:9 他们下山的时候，耶稣嘱咐他们说，除非人子从死人中复活，你们不要将所看见的对人述说。
And as they were coming down from the mountain, He ordered them not to relate to anyone the things which they had seen, except when the Son of Man has
risen from the dead.
9:10 门徒将这话存在心里，彼此讨论什么是从死人中复活。
And they kept the word, discussing among themselves what rising from the dead was.
9:11 他们就问耶稣说，经学家为什么说，以利亚必须先来？
And they asked Him, saying, Why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?
9:12 耶稣说，以利亚固然要先来复兴万事。怎么经上又记着，人子要受许多的苦，且被人视为无有？
And He said to them, Elijah does indeed come first and restore all things. And how is it that it is written of the Son of Man that He should suffer many things and
be counted as nothing?
9:13 其实我告诉你们，以利亚确是已经来了，他们且任意待他，正如经上指着他所记的。
But I tell you that Elijah has indeed come, and they did to him the things that they wished, even as it is written of him.
9:14 耶稣和三个门徒，到了门徒那里，看见大批群众围着他们，又有经学家和他们辩论。
And when they came to the disciples, they saw a great crowd around them, and some scribes disputing with them.
9:15 群众一看见耶稣，都甚吃惊，就跑上去问祂的安。
And immediately, when all the crowd saw Him, they were amazed, and they ran to Him and greeted Him.
9:16 耶稣问他们说，你们和他们辩论的是什么？
And He questioned them, What are you disputing with them?
9:17 群众中间有一个回答祂说，夫子，我带了我的儿子到你这里来，他被哑吧灵附着；
And one from the crowd answered Him, Teacher, I brought to You my son, who has a dumb spirit;
9:18 无论在那里，灵抓住他，把他摔倒，他就口中流沫，咬牙切齿，身体枯干。我请过你的门徒把灵赶出去，他们却无能为力。
And wherever it seizes him, it throws him down, and he foams at the mouth and grinds his teeth; and he is wasting away. And I told Your disciples to cast it out,
and they were not able.
9:19 耶稣回答他们说，唉，不信的世代！我与你们同在要到几时？我忍耐你们要到几时？把他带到我这里来吧。
And He answered them and said, O unbelieving generation! How long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him to Me.
9:20 他们就把孩子带到祂那里。灵看见耶稣，就立刻叫孩子重重的抽疯，倒在地上，翻来覆去，口中流沫。
And they brought him to Him. And when it saw Him, the spirit immediately convulsed him greatly, and falling on the earth, he rolled about, foaming at the mouth.
9:21 耶稣问他父亲说，他生这病有多久了？他说，从幼年的时候。
And He questioned his father, How long has this been happening to him? And he said, From childhood.
9:22 灵屡次把他扔在火里、水里，要除灭他。你若能作什么，求你帮助我们，怜悯我们。
And it has often thrown him both into fire and into water to destroy him. But if You can do anything, have compassion on us and help us.
9:23 耶稣对他说，你说“你若能”─在信的人凡事都能。
And Jesus said to him, You say, If You can. All things are possible to him who believes.
9:24 孩子的父亲立即喊着说，我信；我的不信，求你帮助。
Immediately, crying out, the father of the child said, I believe; help my unbelief!
9:25 耶稣看见群众都跑上来，就斥责那污灵，说，聋哑的灵，我命令你从他里面出来，再不要进去。
And Jesus, seeing that a crowd was running together toward them, rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, Dumb and deaf spirit, I order you, come out of him
and enter into him no more.
9:26 灵就喊叫，使孩子大大的抽疯，就出来了。孩子好像死了一样，以致众人多半说，他死了。
And after crying out and convulsing him terribly, it came out. And he became as though he were dead so that many said that he died.
9:27 但耶稣拉着他的手，扶他起来，他就站起来了。
But Jesus took hold of his hand and raised him, and he stood up.
9:28 耶稣进了屋子，门徒暗暗的问祂说，我们为什么不能赶出它去？
And when He entered into the house, His disciples questioned Him privately, Why were we not able to cast it out?
9:29 耶稣说，非用祷告，这一类的灵总不能出来。
And He said to them, This kind cannot come out by any means except prayer.
9:30 他们离开那里，经过加利利，耶稣不愿意人知道；
And they went out from there and passed through Galilee, and He did not want anyone to know about it,
9:31 因为祂教训门徒，说，人子将要被交在人手里，他们要杀害祂；被杀以后，过三天祂要复活。
For He was teaching His disciples. And He said to them, The Son of Man is being delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill Him; and when He has been
killed, after three days He will rise.
948
9:32 门徒却不明白这话，又不敢问祂。
But they did not understand this saying and were afraid to question Him.
9:33 他们来到迦百农。耶稣在屋子里问门徒说，你们在路上争论什么？
And they came to Capernaum. And when He was in the house, He questioned them, What were you reasoning about on the way?
9:34 门徒不作声，因为他们在路上彼此争论谁为大。
And they were silent, for they had argued with one another on the way about who was greater.
9:35 耶稣坐下，叫十二个门徒来，对他们说，若有人想要作首先的，他必作众人末后的，作众人的仆役。
And He sat down and called the twelve and said to them, If anyone wants to be first, he shall be the last of all and the servant of all.
9:36 于是领过一个小孩子来，叫他站在他们中间，又抱起他来，对他们说，
And He took a little child and set him in their midst; and taking him into His arms, He said to them,
9:37 凡因我的名接待一个这样小孩子的，就是接待我；凡接待我的，不是接待我，乃是接待那差我来的。
Whoever receives one of such little children because of My name, receives Me; and whoever receives Me, receives not Me but Him who sent Me.
9:38 约翰对耶稣说，夫子，我们看见一个人在你的名里赶鬼，我们就禁止他，因为他不跟从我们。
John said to Him, Teacher, we saw someone casting out demons in Your name, and we forbade him because he does not follow us.
9:39 耶稣说，不要禁止他，因为没有人在我的名里行异能，反倒能轻易毁谤我。
But Jesus said, Do not forbid him, for there is no one who will do a work of power in My name and be able soon to speak evil of Me.
9:40 不抵挡我们的，就是帮助我们的。
For he who is not against us is for us.
9:41 凡因你们名为属基督的，给你们一杯水喝的，我实在告诉你们，他绝不会失去他的赏赐。
For whoever gives you a cup of water to drink because you bear the name that you are Christ's, truly I say to you that he shall by no means lose his reward.
9:42 凡绊跌一个信入我的小子的，倒不如把大磨石套在他的脖子上，把他扔在海里。
And whoever stumbles one of these little ones who believe into Me, it is better for him if a great millstone is placed around his neck and he is thrown into the sea.
9:43 若是你的手绊跌你，就把它砍下来；你残废进入生命，比有两只手往火坑去，进入那不灭的火里更好。
And if your hand stumbles you, cut it off; it is better for you to enter into life maimed than to have two hands and go away into Gehenna, into unquenchable fire.
9:44 见 44 注 1。
See note 44.
9:45 若是你一只脚绊跌你，就把它砍下来；你瘸腿进入生命，比有两只脚被扔在火坑里更好。
And if your foot stumbles you, cut it off; it is better for you to enter into life lame than to have two feet and be thrown into Gehenna.
9:46 见 46 注 1。
See note 46.
9:47 若是你一只眼绊跌你，就去掉它；你只有一只眼进入神的国，比有两只眼被扔在火坑里更好。
And if your eye stumbles you, cast it out; it is better for you to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye than to have two eyes and be thrown into Gehenna,
9:48 在那里虫是不死的，火是不灭的。
Where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched.
9:49 因为必用火腌各人。
For everyone shall be salted with fire.
9:50 盐本是好的，若失了味，可用什么叫它再咸？你们里面要有盐，并要和平相处。
Salt is good, but if the salt becomes unsalty, with what will you restore its saltiness? Have salt in yourselves and be at peace with one another.
马可福音 Mark 第 10 章
10:1 耶稣从那里起身，来到犹太境内，并约但河外；群众又聚集到祂那里，祂又照常教训他们。
And He rose up from there and came into the borders of Judea and beyond the Jordan; and again crowds came together to Him, and as He was accustomed,
again He taught them.
10:2 有法利赛人进前来问祂说，人休妻可以不可以？为的是要试诱祂。
And some Pharisees came and asked Him whether it was lawful for a man to divorce a wife, so as to tempt Him.
10:3 祂回答说，摩西吩咐你们的是什么？
And He answered and said to them, What did Moses command you?
10:4 他们说，摩西准人写了休书，便可以休妻。
And they said, Moses allowed us to write a certificate of divorce and divorce her.
10:5 耶稣说，摩西因为你们的心硬，才写这条诫命给你们。
And Jesus said to them, Because of your hardness of heart he wrote this commandment for you.
10:6 但从创造之初，神造人是造男造女。
But from the beginning of creation, He made them male and female.
10:7 为这缘故，人要离开父母，与妻子联合，二人成为一体；
For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother and shall be joined to his wife;
10:8 这样，他们不再是两个，乃是一个肉身了。
And the two shall be one flesh. So then they are no longer two, but one flesh.
10:9 所以神所配偶的，人不可分开。
Therefore what God has yoked together, let man not separate.
10:10 到了屋里，门徒又问祂这事。
And in the house the disciples questioned Him again concerning this.
10:11 祂对他们说，凡休妻另娶的，就是犯奸淫辜负妻子。
And He said to them, Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her.
10:12 妻子若离弃丈夫另嫁，也是犯奸淫。
949
And if she divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery.
10:13 有人带着小孩子到耶稣那里，要祂摸他们，门徒却责备那些人。
And they brought little children to Him so that He might touch them, but the disciples rebuked them.
10:14 耶稣看见就恼怒，对门徒说，让小孩子到我这里来，不要禁止他们，因为神的国正是这等人的。
But Jesus, seeing it, was indignant and said to them, Allow the little children to come to Me. Do not forbid them, for of such is the kingdom of God.
10:15 我实在告诉你们，凡不像小孩子一样接受神国的，绝不能进去。
Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a little child shall by no means enter into it.
10:16 于是抱着小孩子，给他们按手，为他们热切的祝福。
And taking them into His arms, He fervently blessed them, laying His hands on them.
10:17 耶稣出来行路的时候，有一个人跑来，跪在祂面前，问祂说，良善的夫子，我该作什么，才可以承受永远的生命？
And as He went out into the road, someone ran to Him and kneeling before Him asked Him, Good Teacher, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?
10:18 耶稣对他说，你为什么称我是良善的？除了神一位以外，再没有良善的。
And Jesus said to him, Why do you call Me good? No one is good except One -- God.
10:19 诫命你是晓得的：“不可杀人，不可奸淫，不可偷盗，不可作假见证，不可亏负人，当孝敬父母。”
You know the commandments: "Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not bear false witness, do not defraud, honor your father and mother.''
10:20 他对耶稣说，夫子，这一切我从小都遵守了。
And he said to Him, Teacher, all these things I have kept from my youth.
10:21 耶稣看着他，就爱他，对他说，你还缺少一件：去变卖你所有的，分给穷人，就必有财宝在天上，你还要来跟从我。
And Jesus, looking upon him, was moved with love for him and said to him, One thing you lack: go; the things you have, sell and give to the poor, and you will
have treasure in heaven; and come, follow Me.
10:22 他因着这话，就面显愁容，忧忧郁郁的走了，因为他有很多产业。
And at the word his countenance fell, and he went away sorrowing, for he had many possessions.
10:23 耶稣周围一看，对门徒说，有钱财的人要进神的国，是何等的难！
And Jesus, looking around, said to His disciples, How difficult it will be for those who have riches to enter into the kingdom of God!
10:24 门徒就希奇祂的话。耶稣又对他们说，孩子们，倚靠钱财的人进神的国，是何等的难！
And the disciples were amazed at His words. But Jesus again answered and said to them, Children, how difficult it is for those who trust in riches to enter into the
kingdom of God!
10:25 骆驼穿过针的眼，比财主进神的国还容易。
It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
10:26 他们就分外惊讶，彼此说，这样谁能得救？
But they were astonished beyond measure and said among themselves, Then who can be saved?
10:27 耶稣看着他们说，在人是不能的，在神却不然，因为在神凡事都能。
Looking upon them, Jesus said, With men it is impossible, but not with God, for all things are possible with God.
10:28 彼得就对祂说，看哪，我们已经撇下所有的跟从了你。
Peter began to say to Him, Behold, we have left all and followed You.
10:29 耶稣说，我实在告诉你们，人为我和福音，撇下房屋、或是弟兄、姊妹、母亲、父亲、儿女、田地，
Jesus said, Truly I say to you, There is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for My sake and for the gospel's
sake,
10:30 没有不在今世得百倍，就是房屋、弟兄、姊妹、母亲、儿女和田地，同各样的逼迫，且要在来世得永远生命的。
But that he shall receive a hundred times as much now at this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and fields, with persecutions, and
in the coming age, eternal life.
10:31 然而许多在前的将要在后，在后的将要在前。
But many first will be last, and the last first.
10:32 他们行路上耶路撒冷去，耶稣在他们前头走，他们就希奇，跟从的人也害怕。祂又把十二个门徒带到一边，把自己将要遭遇的事，告诉他们说，
Now they were on the road, going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus led the way before them. And they were amazed, and those who followed were afraid. And He
took the twelve aside again and began to tell them the things that were about to happen to Him:
10:33 看哪，我们上耶路撒冷去，人子要被交给祭司长和经学家，他们要定祂死罪，又要把祂交给外邦人，
Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and to the scribes. And they will condemn Him to death and
deliver Him to the Gentiles,
10:34 他们要戏弄祂，向祂吐唾沫，鞭打祂，杀害祂，过了三天，祂必复活。
And they will mock Him and spit at Him and scourge Him, and they will kill Him. And after three days He will rise.
10:35 西庇太的儿子雅各和约翰到耶稣跟前来，对祂说，夫子，我们无论向你求什么，愿你给我们作。
And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came to Him, saying to Him, Teacher, we want You to do for us whatever we ask You.
10:36 祂说，要我为你们作什么？
And He said to them, What do you want Me to do for you?
10:37 他们说，赐我们在你的荣耀里，一个坐在你右边，一个坐在你左边。
And they said to Him, Grant to us to sit, one on Your right and one on Your left, in Your glory.
10:38 耶稣说，你们不知道所求的是什么。我所喝的杯，你们能喝么？我所受的浸，你们能受么？
But Jesus said to them, You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup which I drink, or to be baptized with the baptism with which I am
baptized?
10:39 他们说，我们能。耶稣说，我所喝的杯，你们必要喝；我所受的浸，你们必要受。
And they said to Him, We are able. And Jesus said to them, The cup which I drink you shall drink, and with the baptism with which I am baptized, you shall be
baptized.
10:40 只是坐在我的左右，不是我可以赐的，乃是为谁预备的，就赐给谁。
But to sit on My right or on My left is not Mine to give, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared.
10:41 那十个听见，就开始恼怒雅各和约翰。
950
And when the ten heard this, they began to be indignant concerning James and John.
10:42 耶稣叫他们来，对他们说，你们知道外邦人有尊为君王的，为主治理他们，也有大臣操权管辖他们。
And Jesus called them to Him and said to them, You know that those who are esteemed as rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise
authority over them.
10:43 但你们中间不是这样；反倒你们中间无论谁想要为大，就必作你们的仆役；
But it is not so among you; but whoever wants to become great among you shall be your servant,
10:44 你们中间无论谁想要为首，就必作众人的奴仆。
And whoever wants to be first among you shall be the slave of all.
10:45 因为人子来，不是要受人的服事，乃是要服事人，并且要舍命，作多人的赎价。
For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give His life as a ransom for many.
10:46 他们到了耶利哥；耶稣同门徒并大批的群众，出耶利哥的时候，有一个讨饭的瞎子，是底买的儿子巴底买，坐在路旁。
And they came to Jericho. And as He was going out from Jericho, as well as His disciples and a large crowd, the son of Timaeus, Bartimaeus, a blind beggar, sat
by the road.
10:47 他听见是拿撒勒人耶稣，就喊着说，大卫的子孙耶稣，可怜我吧！
And when he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!
10:48 有许多人责备他，叫他安静，他却越发喊着：大卫的子孙，可怜我吧！
And many rebuked him so that he would be silent, but he cried out much more, Son of David, have mercy on me!
10:49 耶稣就站住，说，叫过他来。他们就叫那瞎子，对他说，放心，起来，祂叫你了。
And Jesus, standing still, said, Call him here. And they called the blind man, saying to him, Take courage. Rise. He is calling you.
10:50 瞎子就丢下衣服，跳起来，走到耶稣那里。
And throwing his garment aside, he leaped up and came to Jesus.
10:51 耶稣说，你要我为你作什么？瞎子说，拉波尼，我要能看见。
And Jesus answered him and said, What do you want Me to do for you? And the blind man said to Him, Rabboni, that I may receive my sight!
10:52 耶稣说，去吧，你的信救了你。他立刻看见了，就在路上跟随耶稣。
And Jesus said to him, Go; your faith has healed you. And immediately he received his sight and followed Him on the road.
马可福音 Mark 第 11 章
11:1 耶稣和门徒将近耶路撒冷，到了伯法其和伯大尼，在橄榄山那里，耶稣就打发两个门徒，
And when they drew near to Jerusalem, at Bethphage and Bethany, at the Mount of Olives, He sent two of His disciples,
11:2 对他们说，你们往对面村子去，一进去，就必看见一匹驴驹拴在那里，是从来没有人骑过的，把它解开牵来。
And said to them, Go into the village opposite you, and immediately upon entering into it, you will find a colt tied, on which no man has yet sat; untie it and bring
it.
11:3 若有人对你们说，为什么作这事？你们就说，主需要它，祂必立刻把它送回这里。
And if anyone says to you, Why are you doing this? say, The Lord has need of it and will immediately send it here again.
11:4 他们去了，便看见一匹驴驹拴在门外大街上，就把它解开。
And they went away and found a colt tied by a door, outside on the street, and they untied it.
11:5 在那里站着的人，有几个对他们说，你们解驴驹作什么？
And some of the ones standing there said to them, What are you doing untying the colt?
11:6 门徒照着耶稣所说的告诉他们，那些人就让他们牵去了。
And they spoke to them even as Jesus had said. And they let them do it.
11:7 他们把驴驹牵到耶稣那里，把自己的衣服搭在上面，耶稣就骑上。
And they brought the colt to Jesus and threw their garments on it, and He sat on it.
11:8 有许多人把衣服铺在路上，另有人从田间砍下满带嫩叶的树枝，一层一层的铺在路上。
And many spread their garments in the road, and others spread layers of branches full of tender leaves, having cut them out of the fields.
11:9 前行后随的人喊着说，和散那！在主名里来的，是当受颂赞的！
And those who went before and those who followed cried out, Hosanna! Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord!
11:10 那将要来的我们祖宗大卫的国，是当受颂赞的！至高之处的和散那！
Blessed is the coming kingdom of our father David! Hosanna in the highest!
11:11 耶稣进了耶路撒冷，入了殿，周围看了各样物件；时候已晚，就和十二个门徒出城，往伯大尼去。
And He entered into Jerusalem, into the temple; and when He had looked around at all things, since the hour was already late, He went out to Bethany with the
twelve.
11:12 第二天，他们从伯大尼出来，耶稣饿了。
And on the next day, when they had gone out from Bethany, He became hungry.
11:13 远远的看见一棵无花果树，树上有叶子，就走过去，或者在树上可以找着什么；到了树下，除了叶子以外，什么也找不着，因为不是收无花果的时节。
And seeing at a distance a fig tree having leaves, He came to see if perhaps He would find anything on it. And when He came to it, He found nothing except
leaves, for it was not the season for figs.
11:14 耶稣就对树说，不再有人吃你的果子，直到永远。祂的门徒也听见了。
And He answered and said to it, May no one eat fruit from you forever! And His disciples heard it.
11:15 他们来到耶路撒冷。耶稣进了殿，就赶出殿里作买卖的人，推倒兑换银钱之人的桌子，和卖鸽子之人的凳子；
And they came to Jerusalem. And He entered into the temple and began to cast out those who were selling and those who were buying in the temple, and He
overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who were selling the doves;
11:16 也不许任何人拿着器皿从殿里经过。
And He would not let anyone carry a vessel through the temple.
11:17 祂便教训他们说，经上不是记着，“我的殿必称为万国祷告的殿”么？你们倒使它成为贼窝了。
951
And He taught and said to them, Is it not written, "My house shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations''? But you have made it a den of robbers.
11:18 祭司长和经学家听见，就设法怎样除灭耶稣，却又怕祂，因为群众都惊讶祂的教训。
And the chief priests and the scribes heard this, and they sought how they might destroy Him, for they feared Him, for all the crowd was astounded at His
teaching.
11:19 每到晚上，他们就出城去。
And every day when evening fell, they went outside the city.
11:20 早晨，他们从那里经过，看见那无花果树连根都枯干了。
And as they passed by in the morning, they saw the fig tree withered from the roots.
11:21 彼得想起来，就对祂说，拉比，请看，你所咒诅的无花果树，已经枯干了。
And Peter remembered and said to Him, Rabbi, behold, the fig tree which You cursed has withered.
11:22 耶稣回答说，你们要信神。
And Jesus answered and said to them, Have faith in God.
11:23 我实在告诉你们，无论谁对这座山说，你得挪开，投在海里，他若心里不疑惑，只信他所说的成了，就必给他成了。
Truly I say to you that whoever says to this mountain, Be taken up and cast into the sea, and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says happens,
he will have it.
11:24 所以我告诉你们，凡你们祷告祈求的，无论是什么，只要信已经得着了，就必得着。
For this reason I say to you, All things that you pray and ask, believe that you have received them, and you will have them.
11:25 你们站着祷告的时候，若向什么人怀怨，要赦免他，好叫你们在诸天之上的父，也赦免你们的过犯。
And when you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything against anyone, so that your Father who is in the heavens may also forgive you your offenses.
11:26 你们若不赦免人，你们在诸天之上的父，也不赦免你们的过犯。
But if you do not forgive, neither will your Father who is in the heavens forgive your offenses.
11:27 他们又来到耶路撒冷。耶稣在殿里行走的时候，祭司长、经学家和长老来到祂那里，
And they came again to Jerusalem. And as He was walking in the temple, the chief priests and the scribes and the elders came to Him,
11:28 对祂说，你仗着什么权柄作这些事？谁给你这权柄作这些事？
And said to Him, By what authority do You do these things, or who gave You this authority to do these things?
11:29 耶稣对他们说，我要问你们一句话，你们回答我，我就告诉你们，我仗着什么权柄作这些事。
And Jesus said to them, I will question you about one thing; answer Me and I will tell you by what authority I do these things.
11:30 约翰的浸，是从天上来的，还是从人来的？你们回答我。
The baptism of John, was it from heaven or from men? Answer Me.
11:31 他们彼此议论说，我们若是说从天上来的，祂必说，这样，你们为什么不信他？
And they reasoned with one another saying, If we say, From heaven, He will say, Why then did you not believe him?
11:32 我们要是说从人来的─他们又怕群众，因为众人真以约翰为申言者。
But should we say, From men? -- they feared the crowd, for all held that John was really a prophet.
11:33 于是他们回答耶稣说，我们不知道。耶稣便对他们说，我也不告诉你们，我仗着什么权柄作这些事。
And they answered Jesus and said, We do not know. And Jesus said to them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.
马可福音 Mark 第 12 章
12:1 耶稣就用比喻对他们说，有人栽了一个葡萄园，四周围上篱笆，挖了一个压酒池，盖了一座楼，租给园户，就往外国去了。
And He began to speak to them in parables: A man planted a vineyard and put a hedge around it and dug a vat for a winepress and built a tower; and he
leased it out to vinedressers and went abroad.
12:2 到了时候，打发一个奴仆到园户那里，要从园户收葡萄园的果子。
And he sent a slave to the vinedressers at the proper time so that from the vinedressers he might take of the fruit of the vineyard.
12:3 园户拿住他，打了他，叫他空手回去。
And they took him and beat him and sent him away empty-handed.
12:4 园主再打发另一个奴仆到他们那里，他们打伤他的头，并且凌辱他。
And again he sent to them another slave; and that one they struck on the head and dishonored.
12:5 园主又打发另一个去，他们就杀了他。后来又打发好些奴仆去，有的他们打了，有的他们杀了。
And he sent another, and that one they killed; and so with many others, beating some and killing others.
12:6 园主还有一位，是他的爱子；末后就打发他到他们那里去，心里说，他们必尊敬我的儿子。
He had yet one, a beloved son; he sent him to them last, saying, They will respect my son.
12:7 不料，那些园户彼此说，这是承受产业的；来吧，我们杀了他，产业就归我们了。
But those vinedressers said to one another, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours!
12:8 于是拿住他，杀了他，把他扔在葡萄园外。
And they took him and killed him and threw him out of the vineyard.
12:9 这样，葡萄园的主人要怎么办？他要来除灭那些园户，将葡萄园租给别人。
What then will the master of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the vinedressers and will give the vineyard to others.
12:10 “匠人所弃的石头，已成了房角的头块石头；
Have you not even read this Scripture, "The stone which the builders rejected, this has become the head of the corner.
12:11 这是主所作的，在我们眼中看为希奇。”连这经你们也没有念过么？
This was from the Lord, and it is marvelous in our eyes''?
12:12 他们看出这比喻是指着他们说的，就想要捉拿祂，只是惧怕群众，于是离开祂走了。
And they sought to seize Him, yet they feared the crowd, for they perceived that it was with them in view that He spoke the parable. And leaving Him, they went
away.
12:13 后来，他们打发几个法利赛人和几个希律党的人，到耶稣那里，要就着祂的话陷害祂。
952
And they sent to Him some of the Pharisees and Herodians that they might catch Him in His speech.
12:14 他们来了，就对祂说，夫子，我们知道你是诚实的，什么人你都不顾忌，因为你不看人的外貌，乃是诚诚实实教导神的道路。纳税给该撒，可以不
可以？我们该纳不该纳？
And they came and said to Him, Teacher, we know that You are true and do not fear anyone, for You do not regard the person of men, but teach the way of God
in truth. Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar, or not? Should we give, or should we not give?
12:15 耶稣知道他们的假意，就对他们说，你们为什么试诱我？拿一个银币给我看。
But He, knowing their hypocrisy, said to them, Why do you tempt Me? Bring Me a denarius that I may look at it.
12:16 他们就拿了来。耶稣说，这像和这号是谁的？他们说，是该撒的。
And they brought one. And He said to them, Whose is this image and inscription? And they said to Him, Caesar's.
12:17 耶稣说，把该撒的物归给该撒，把神的物归给神。他们就对祂非常希奇。
And Jesus said to them, The things that are Caesar's render to Caesar, and the things that are God's to God. And they marveled greatly at Him.
12:18 那些说没有复活的撒都该人，来到耶稣那里，问祂说，
And some Sadducees came to Him, who say that there is no resurrection, and they questioned Him, saying,
12:19 夫子，摩西为我们写着说，人的哥哥若死了，撇下妻子，没有留下孩子，他兄弟当娶他的妻子，为哥哥立后。
Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if anyone's brother dies and leaves a wife behind and leaves no child, his brother should take the wife and raise up seed to his
brother.
12:20 有兄弟七人，第一个娶了妻，死了，没有留下后裔；
There were seven brothers. And the first took a wife, and when he died, he left no seed;
12:21 第二个娶了她，也死了，没有留下后裔；第三个也是这样；
And the second took her and died, leaving behind no seed; and the third similarly;
12:22 那七个人都没有留下后裔。末了，那妇人也死了。
And the seven left no seed. Last of all the woman also died.
12:23 在复活的时候，他们都复活了，那时她是那一个的妻子？因为他们七个都娶过她。
In the resurrection, when they rise, whose wife will she be? For the seven had her as wife.
12:24 耶稣对他们说，你们错了，岂不是因为不明白圣经，也不晓得神的大能么？
Jesus said to them, Is it not because of this that you err, that you do not know the Scriptures nor the power of God?
12:25 人从死人中复活的时候，也不娶也不嫁，乃像诸天之上的使者一样。
For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in the heavens.
12:26 关于死人复活，神在摩西书中荆棘篇上怎样对他说，“我是亚伯拉罕的神，以撒的神，雅各的神，”你们没有念过么？
But concerning the dead, that they are raised, have you not read in the book of Moses, in the section concerning the bush, how God spoke to him, saying, "I am
the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob''?
12:27 神不是死人的神，乃是活人的神。你们是大错了。
He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. You err greatly.
12:28 有一个经学家进前来，听见他们辩论，晓得耶稣回答得好，就问祂说，诫命中那一条是第一？
And one of the scribes approached and heard them disputing; and perceiving that He answered them well, he questioned Him, Which is the first commandment
of all?
12:29 耶稣回答说，第一是，“以色列阿，你要听，主我们的神，是独一的主。
Jesus answered, The first is: "Hear, Israel: the Lord our God is one Lord;
12:30 你要全心、全魂、全心思并全力，爱主你的神。”
And you shall love the Lord your God from your whole heart and from your whole soul and from your whole mind and from your whole strength.''
12:31 其次，“要爱邻舍如同自己。”再没有别的诫命比这两条更大的了。
The second is this: "You shall love your neighbor as yourself.'' There is no other commandment greater than these.
12:32 那经学家对祂说，夫子，不错，你说的是真实的，神只有一位，除了祂以外，再没有别神；
And the scribe said to Him, Well said, Teacher; in truth You have said that He is one and there is not another besides Him;
12:33 并且全心、全悟性并全力爱祂，又爱邻舍如同自己，就比一切的燔祭，和各样的祭物好得多。
And to love Him from the whole heart and from the whole understanding and from the whole strength and to love one's neighbor as himself is much more than
all the burnt offerings and sacrifices.
12:34 耶稣见他回答得有智慧，就对他说，你离神的国不远了。于是再没有人敢问祂什么。
And Jesus, seeing that he answered intelligently, said to him, You are not far from the kingdom of God. And no one dared to question Him anymore.
12:35 耶稣在殿里施教，说，经学家怎么说，基督是大卫的子孙？
And Jesus, while He was teaching in the temple, answered and said, How is it that the scribes say that the Christ is the son of David?
12:36 大卫自己在圣灵里说，“主对我主说，你坐在我的右边，等我把你的仇敌，放在你的脚下。”
David himself said in the Holy Spirit, "The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at My right hand until I put Your enemies underneath Your feet.''
12:37 大卫自己既称祂为主，祂怎么又是大卫的子孙？大批的群众都喜欢听祂。
David himself calls Him Lord, and how is He his son? And the great crowd heard Him gladly.
12:38 耶稣在教训之间说，你们要提防经学家，他们好穿长袍游行，喜爱人在市场上问他们安，
And in His teaching He said, Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes, and like greetings in the marketplaces
12:39 又喜爱会堂里的高位，筵席上的首座；
And chief seats in the synagogues and places of honor at the dinners,
12:40 他们侵吞寡妇的家产，假意作很长的祷告。这些人要受更重的刑罚。
Who devour the widows' houses, and for a pretense make long prayers. These shall receive greater judgment.
12:41 耶稣对着银库坐着，看群众怎样投钱入库。有好些财主，投进了许多钱。
And He sat down opposite the treasury and watched how the crowd cast money into the treasury. And many rich people cast in much.
12:42 有一个穷寡妇来，投了两个小钱，就是一个大钱。
And one poor widow came and cast in two lepta, which is a quadrans.
12:43 耶稣便叫门徒来，对他们说，我实在告诉你们，这穷寡妇投入库里的，比众人所投的更多。
953
And He called His disciples to Him and said to them, Truly I say to you that this poor widow has cast in more than all those who were casting into the treasury,
12:44 因为他们都是从自己的富余中把一些投上，但这寡妇是从自己的缺乏中，把她一切所有的，就是她一切养生的，都投上了。
For they all cast in out of their surplus, but she, out of her lack, has cast in all that she had, her whole living.
马可福音 Mark 第 13 章
13:1 耶稣从殿里出来的时候，有一个门徒对祂说，夫子，请看，何等的石头，何等的建筑！
And as He was going out of the temple, one of His disciples said to Him, Teacher, behold, what wonderful stones and what wonderful buildings!
13:2 耶稣对他说，你看见这些伟大的建筑么？将来绝没有一块石头留在石头上，不被拆毁的。
And Jesus said to him, Do you see these great buildings? There shall by no means be left here a stone upon a stone which shall not be thrown down.
13:3 耶稣在橄榄山上对着殿坐着，彼得、雅各、约翰和安得烈，暗暗的问祂说，
And as He sat on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked Him privately,
13:4 请告诉我们，什么时候会有这些事？这一切事将要成就的时候，有什么兆头？
Tell us, when will these things be? And what will be the sign when all these things are about to be accomplished?
13:5 耶稣对他们说，你们要谨慎，免得有人迷惑你们。
And Jesus began to say to them, See that no one leads you astray.
13:6 将来要有许多人冒我的名来，说，我是基督，并且要迷惑许多人。
Many will come in My name, saying, I am the Christ! and will lead many astray.
13:7 你们听见打仗和打仗的风声，不要惊慌；这是必须发生的，只是末期还没有到。
And when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be alarmed; it must happen, but the end is not yet.
13:8 民要起来攻打民，国要起来攻打国，多处必有地震、饥荒。这些都是产难的开始。
For nation will rise up against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; there will be earthquakes in various places; there will be famines. These things are the
beginning of birth pangs.
13:9 但你们要自己谨慎。人要把你们交给议会，并且你们要在会堂里受鞭打，又要为我的缘故，站在官长和君王面前，对他们作见证。
But you, take heed to yourselves. They will deliver you to sanhedrins, and in the synagogues you will be beaten, and before governors and kings you will stand
for My sake, for a testimony to them.
13:10 然而福音必须先传给万民。
Yet the gospel must first be proclaimed to all the nations.
13:11 人把你们拉去交给人的时候，不要预先忧虑要说什么，只是在那时刻赐给你们什么话，你们就说什么，因为说话的不是你们，乃是圣灵。
And when they lead you away and deliver you up, do not be anxious beforehand about what you should speak, but whatever is given to you in that hour, speak
that; for it is not you who are speaking, but the Holy Spirit.
13:12 弟兄要把弟兄，父亲要把儿女，交到死地；儿女要起来与父母为敌，害死他们；
And brother will deliver up brother to death, and a father his child; and children will rise up against their parents and put them to death.
13:13 你们还要因我的名，被众人恨恶；惟有忍耐到底的，必然得救。
And you will be hated by all on account of My name. But he who has endured to the end, this one shall be saved.
13:14 你们看见那行毁坏的可憎之物，站在不当站的地方，（读这经的人需要会意，）那时，在犹太的，要逃到山上；
But when you see the abomination of desolation standing where it should not (let him who reads understand), then let those in Judea flee to the mountains;
13:15 在房顶上的，不要下来，也不要进去拿家里的东西；
And let him who is on the housetop not come down, nor enter in, to take anything out of his house;
13:16 在田地里的，也不要回去取衣服。
And let him who is in the field not turn back to take his garment.
13:17 当那些日子，怀孕的和乳养孩子的有祸了。
But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babies in those days.
13:18 你们要祷告，叫这事不在冬天发生；
And pray that it may not happen in winter,
13:19 因为那些日子必有灾难，这样的灾难，就是从神创造万物的起头，直到如今，都未曾发生过，将来也绝不会发生。
For those days will be a time of tribulation such as has not occurred from the beginning of the creation which God created until now, nor shall by any means ever
occur.
13:20 若不是主削减了那些日子，凡属肉体的人，没有一个会得救的；但因祂所拣选的选民，祂将那些日子削减了。
And unless the Lord had shortened the days, no flesh would be saved; but on account of the chosen, whom He chose, He shortened the days.
13:21 那时，若有人对你们说，看哪，基督在这里！看哪，基督在那里！你们不要信。
And then if anyone says to you, Behold, here is the Christ! Behold, there! do not believe it.
13:22 因为假基督和假申言者将要起来，显神迹奇事，若是可能，连选民也要迷惑了。
For false Christs and false prophets will arise and will show signs and wonders to deceive, if possible, the chosen.
13:23 你们却要谨慎；凡事我都预先告诉你们了。
But you, beware; I have told you all things beforehand.
13:24 在那些日子，那灾难以后，日头要变黑，月亮也不放光，
But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light,
13:25 众星要从天上坠落，天势都要震动。
And the stars will be falling out of heaven, and the powers in the heavens will be shaken.
13:26 那时，他们要看见人子，带着大能力和大荣耀，在云中来临。
And then they will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds with great power and glory.
13:27 那时，祂要差遣天使，将祂的选民从四方，从地极直到天边，都聚集了来。
And then He will send the angels, and He will gather together His chosen from the four winds, from the end of the earth to the end of heaven.
13:28 但是你们可以从无花果树学个比方：当树枝发嫩长叶的时候，你们就知道夏天近了；
954
But learn the parable from the fig tree: as soon as its branch has become tender and puts forth its leaves, you know that the summer is near.
13:29 照样，你们几时看见这些事发生，也该知道那夏天近了，正在门口了。
So also you, when you see these things happening, know that it is near, at the doors.
13:30 我实在告诉你们，这一代还没有过去，这一切事都要发生。
Truly I say to you that this generation shall by no means pass away until all these things happen.
13:31 天地要过去，我的话却不能过去。
Heaven and earth will pass away, but My words shall by no means pass away.
13:32 至于那日子、那时辰，没有人知道，天上的使者也不知道，子也不知道，惟独父知道。
But concerning that day or hour, no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but the Father.
13:33 你们要谨慎，要有警觉，因为你们不知道那时期几时来到。
Beware, be alert; for you do not know when the time is.
13:34 这事正如一个人往外国去，离开本家，把权柄交给他的奴仆，分派各人的工作，又吩咐看门的要儆醒。
It is like a man who is about to go abroad, having left his house and given to his slaves authority, to each his work, and who commanded the doorkeeper to
watch.
13:35 所以你们要儆醒，因为你们不知道家主什么时候来，或晚上，或半夜，或鸡叫，或早晨。
Watch therefore, for you do not know when the Master of the house comes, whether in the evening or at midnight or at cockcrowing or in the morning;
13:36 恐怕他忽然来到，看见你们睡着了。
Lest He come suddenly and find you sleeping.
13:37 我对你们所说的，也是对众人说，要儆醒。
And what I say to you, I say to all: Watch!
马可福音 Mark 第 14 章
14:1 过两天是逾越节和除酵节。祭司长和经学家，设法怎样用诡计拿住耶稣，把祂杀了，
Now the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread were two days away. And the chief priests and the scribes were seeking a way to seize Him by craftiness
and kill Him,
14:2 只是他们说，在节期中不可，恐怕百姓生乱。
For they said, Not at the feast, lest there be a tumult by the people.
14:3 耶稣在伯大尼患痲疯的西门家里坐席的时候，有一个女人，拿着一玉瓶至贵的真哪哒香膏来，打破玉瓶，把膏浇在祂的头上。
And while He was in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as He reclined at table, a woman came, having an alabaster flask of ointment, of very costly pure
nard, and she broke the alabaster flask and poured it over His head.
14:4 但有几个人恼怒着彼此说，何必这样枉费香膏？
But there were some who were indignantly commenting among themselves: Why has this waste of the ointment been made?
14:5 这香膏可以卖三百多银币，分给穷人。他们就向她怒气冲冲。
For this ointment could have been sold for over three hundred denarii and given to the poor. And they were infuriated with her.
14:6 但耶稣说，由她罢！你们为什么难为她？她在我身上作的，是一件美事。
But Jesus said, Leave her alone. Why do you trouble her? She has done a noble deed on Me.
14:7 因为常有穷人和你们同在，要向他们行善，随时都可以，只是你们不常有我。
For you always have the poor with you, and whenever you want, you can do good for them. But you do not always have Me.
14:8 她作了她所能的；她是为我的安葬，预先膏我的身体。
She has done what she could; she has anointed My body beforehand for the burial.
14:9 我实在告诉你们，普天之下，无论在什么地方传扬这福音，也要述说这女人所行的，作为对她的记念。
And truly I say to you, Wherever the gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what this woman has done shall also be told as a memorial of her.
14:10 十二个门徒中，有一个加略人犹大，出去见祭司长，要把耶稣交给他们。
And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went off to the chief priests to deliver Him up to them.
14:11 他们听见就欢喜，又应许给他银子。他就设法怎样趁机会把耶稣交出。
And when they heard this, they rejoiced and promised to give him money. And he sought a way to deliver Him up opportunely.
14:12 除酵节的第一天，就是宰逾越羊羔的那一天，门徒对耶稣说，你要我们去那里为你预备吃逾越节的筵席？
And on the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, when they sacrificed the passover, His disciples said to Him, Where do You want us to go and prepare so
that You may eat the passover?
14:13 祂就打发两个门徒，对他们说，你们进城去，必有人拿着一瓶水，迎面而来，你们要跟着他。
And He sent two of His disciples and said to them, Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you; follow him;
14:14 无论他进那里去，你们就对那家的主人说，夫子说，我的客房，就是我同门徒可以在那里吃逾越节筵席的地方在那里？
And wherever he enters, say to the master of the house, The Teacher says, Where is My guest room, where I may eat the passover with My disciples?
14:15 他必指给你们摆设整齐的一间大楼房，你们就在那里为我们预备。
And he will show you a large upper room, furnished and ready. And there prepare for us.
14:16 门徒出去，进了城，所遇见的，正如耶稣对他们所说的，他们就预备了逾越节的筵席。
And the disciples went out and came into the city and found it even as He had told them, and they prepared the passover.
14:17 到了晚上，耶稣和十二个门徒都来了。
And when evening fell, He came with the twelve.
14:18 他们坐席正吃的时候，耶稣说，我实在告诉你们，你们中间有一个与我同吃的人，要出卖我了。
And as they were reclining at table and eating, Jesus said, Truly I say to you that one of you will betray Me, one who is eating with Me.
14:19 他们就忧愁起来，一个一个的问祂说，是我么？
They began to be grieved and to say to Him one by one, Surely not I?
14:20 耶稣对他们说，是十二个门徒中，同我蘸手在盘子里的那个人。
955
And He said to them, It will be one of the twelve, one who dips with Me in the dish.
14:21 人子必要去世，正如经上指着祂所写的，但出卖人子的有祸了，那人不生下来倒好。
For the Son of Man is going away, even as it is written concerning Him, but woe to that man through whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been good
for that man if he had not been born.
14:22 他们吃的时候，耶稣拿起饼来，祝福了，就擘开，递给他们说，你们拿去，这是我的身体。
And as they were eating, He took bread and blessed it, and He broke it and gave it to them, and said, Take; this is My body.
14:23 又拿起杯来，祝谢了，递给他们，他们都喝了。
And He took a cup and gave thanks, and He gave it to them; and they all drank of it.
14:24 耶稣对他们说，这是我立约的血，为多人流出来的。
And He said to them, This is My blood of the covenant, which is being poured out for many.
14:25 我实在告诉你们，我绝不再喝这葡萄树的产品，直到我在神的国里，喝新的那日子。
Truly I say to you, I shall by no means drink of the product of the vine anymore until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.
14:26 他们唱了诗，就出来往橄榄山去。
And after singing a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
14:27 耶稣对他们说，你们都要绊跌，因为经上记着，“我要击打牧人，羊就分散了。”
And Jesus said to them, You will all be stumbled, because it is written, "I will smite the Shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.''
14:28 但我复活以后，要在你们以先往加利利去。
But after I have been raised, I will go before you into Galilee.
14:29 彼得对祂说，即使众人都绊跌，我却不然。
But Peter said to Him, Even if all will be stumbled, yet I will not!
14:30 耶稣对他说，我实在告诉你，就在今天夜里，鸡叫两遍以前，你要三次否认我。
And Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you that today in this night, before a rooster crows twice, you will deny Me three times.
14:31 彼得却极力的说，我就是必须和你同死，也绝不会否认你。众人也都这样说。
But he went on speaking more intensely, Even if I must die with You, I will by no means deny You! And they all said similarly.
14:32 他们来到一个地方，名叫客西马尼，耶稣对门徒说，你们坐在这里，等我祷告。
And they came to a place named Gethsemane, and He said to His disciples, Sit here while I pray.
14:33 于是带着彼得、雅各和约翰同去，就惊恐起来，极其难过，
And He took Peter and James and John with Him and began to be awestruck and deeply distressed.
14:34 对他们说，我的魂极其忧伤，几乎要死。你们留在这里，并要儆醒。
And He said to them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch.
14:35 祂就稍往前走，俯伏在地祷告，若是可能，便叫那时刻经过祂而离去。
And going forward a little, He fell on the ground and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour would pass from Him.
14:36 祂说，阿爸，父阿，在你凡事都能，求你将这杯从我撤去；然而不要照我的意思，只要照你的意思。
And He said, Abba Father, all things are possible to You; remove this cup from Me; yet not what I will, but what You will.
14:37 祂来，见他们睡着了，就对彼得说，西门，你睡觉么？不能儆醒片时么？
And He came and found them sleeping. And He said to Peter, Simon, are you sleeping? Were you not able to watch for one hour?
14:38 要儆醒祷告，免得入了试诱；你们的灵固然愿意，肉体却软弱了。
Watch and pray that you may not come into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.
14:39 祂又去祷告，说同样的话。
And going away again, He prayed, saying the same thing.
14:40 祂又来，见他们睡着了，因为他们的眼睛甚是困倦，他们也不知道该回答祂什么。
And coming again, He found them sleeping, for their eyes were very heavy. And they did not know what to answer Him.
14:41 祂第三次来，对他们说，现在你们还在睡觉安歇么？够了，时刻到了，看哪，人子要被交在罪人手里。
And He came the third time and said to them, Are you still sleeping and resting? It is enough. The hour has come; behold, the Son of Man is being delivered into
the hands of sinners.
14:42 起来，我们走吧。看哪，出卖我的人近了。
Arise, let us be going. Behold, the one betraying Me has drawn near.
14:43 耶稣还在说话的时候，那十二个门徒中的犹大立即来到，还有群众带着刀棒，从祭司长、经学家和长老那里，与他同来。
And immediately, while He was still speaking, Judas, one of the twelve, appeared, and with him a crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the
scribes and the elders.
14:44 那出卖耶稣的，曾给他们一个暗号，说，我和谁亲嘴，谁就是祂。你们把祂拿住，牢牢靠靠的带去。
Now the one who was betraying Him had given them a signal, saying, Whomever I kiss, He is the one. Seize Him and lead Him away securely.
14:45 犹大来了，随即到耶稣跟前来，说，拉比！就热切的和祂亲嘴。
And when he came, he immediately approached Him and said, Rabbi! and kissed Him affectionately.
14:46 他们便下手拿住祂。
And they laid hands on Him and seized Him.
14:47 旁边站着的人中，有一个拔出刀来，将大祭司的奴仆砍了一刀，削掉了他一个耳朵。
But a certain one of those standing by drew his sword and struck the slave of the high priest, and took off his ear.
14:48 耶稣对他们说，你们带着刀棒出来捉我，如同捉强盗么？
And Jesus answered and said to them, Have you come out as against a robber with swords and clubs to arrest Me?
14:49 我天天在殿里施教，同你们在一起，你们并没有捉拿我；但这是要应验经上的话。
Day after day I was with you in the temple teaching and you did not seize Me. But may the Scriptures be fulfilled.
14:50 门徒都离开祂逃走了。
And they all left Him and fled.
14:51 有一个青年人，赤身披着一块细麻布，跟随耶稣，众人就捉拿他，
And a certain young man was accompanying Him, clothed with a linen cloth over his naked body; and they seized him.
956
14:52 他却丢下细麻布，赤身逃走了。
But he left the linen cloth behind and fled naked.
14:53 他们把耶稣带到大祭司那里，众祭司长、长老和经学家，都来在一起。
And they led Jesus away to the high priest, and all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes came together.
14:54 彼得远远的跟着耶稣，一直进入大祭司的院子里，和差役一同坐在火光里烤火。
And Peter followed Him at a distance until he was within the courtyard of the high priest. And he was there sitting with the attendants and warming himself in the
light of the fire.
14:55 祭司长和全议会尽力寻找见证，控告耶稣，为要把祂治死，总是得不到。
Now the chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were seeking testimony against Jesus in order to put Him to death, and they could not find it.
14:56 因为有好些人作假见证告祂，只是那些见证各不相合。
For many gave false testimony against Him, yet the testimonies were not consistent.
14:57 又有几个人站起来，作假见证告祂说，
And some stood up and testified falsely against Him, saying,
14:58 我们曾听见祂说，我要拆毁这人手所造的殿，三日内，我要另造一座非人手所造的。
We heard Him say, I will destroy this temple made with hands, and in three days I will build another made without hands.
14:59 就是这样，他们的见证也不相合。
And neither in this regard was their testimony consistent.
14:60 大祭司起来，站在中间，问耶稣说，你什么都不回答么？这些人作见证告你的是什么？
And the high priest stood up in the midst and questioned Jesus, saying, Do You not answer anything? What is this that these testify against You?
14:61 耶稣却默不作声，一句也不回答。大祭司又问祂说，你是那当受颂赞者的儿子基督不是？
But He was silent and did not answer anything. Again the high priest questioned Him and said to Him, Are You the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?
14:62 耶稣说，我是！你们要看见人子坐在那大能者的右边，驾着天上的云而来。
And Jesus said, I am. And you shall see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of Power and coming with the clouds of heaven.
14:63 大祭司就撕开衣服，说，我们还需要什么证人？
And the high priest, tearing his garments, said, What further need do we have of witnesses?
14:64 你们听见这僭妄的话了，你们看怎么样？他们都定祂该死的罪。
You heard the blasphemy! How does it appear to you? And they all condemned Him of being worthy of death.
14:65 就有人向祂吐唾沫，又蒙着祂的脸，用拳头打祂，对祂说，你申言吧！差役就把祂拉过去，用手掌打祂。
And some began to spit at Him and to blindfold His face and to beat Him with their fists and to say to Him, Prophesy! And the attendants, slapping Him about,
took Him.
14:66 彼得在下面院子里，来了大祭司的一个使女，
And while Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest came,
14:67 见彼得烤火，就看着他说，你也是同那拿撒勒人耶稣一起的。
And seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, You also were with the Nazarene, Jesus.
14:68 彼得却不承认，说，我不知道，也不明白你说的是什么。于是出来，到了前院，鸡就叫了。
But he denied it, saying, I neither know nor understand what you are talking about. And he went outside into the forecourt, and a rooster crowed.
14:69 那使女看见他，又对旁边站着的人说，这个人也是属他们的。
And the servant girl, seeing him, began again to say to those standing by, This man is one of them!
14:70 彼得又不承认。过了不久，旁边站着的人又对彼得说，你确是属他们的，因为你也是加利利人。
But again he denied it. And after a little while, those standing by again said to Peter, Surely you are one of them, for you are a Galilean as well.
14:71 彼得遂发咒起誓说，我不认得你们所说的这个人。
But he began to curse and to swear, I do not know this man of whom you speak!
14:72 立时鸡叫了第二遍。彼得想起耶稣对他所说的话，鸡叫两遍以前，你要三次否认我。他想起来，就哭了。
And immediately a rooster crowed a second time. And Peter remembered the word, how Jesus had said to him, Before a rooster crows twice, you will deny Me
three times. And thinking upon it, he wept.
马可福音 Mark 第 15 章
15:1 祭司长立即在早晨同长老、经学家、并全议会的人商议，就把耶稣捆绑，解去交给彼拉多。
And immediately in the morning the chief priests held a consultation with the elders and scribes and the whole Sanhedrin, and having bound Jesus, they led Him
away and delivered Him to Pilate.
15:2 彼拉多问祂说，你是犹太人的王么？耶稣回答说，你说的是。
And Pilate questioned Him, Are You the King of the Jews? And answering him, He said, It is as you say.
15:3 祭司长告了祂许多事。
And the chief priests accused Him of many things.
15:4 彼拉多又问祂说，你看，他们告你这么多的事，你什么都不回答么？
And Pilate again questioned Him, saying, Do You answer nothing? See how many things they are accusing You of.
15:5 耶稣却仍不回答什么，以致彼拉多觉得希奇。
But Jesus made no further answer, so that Pilate marveled.
15:6 每逢节期，总督惯常把群众所求的一个囚犯，释放给他们。
Now at the feasts he released to them one prisoner whom they requested.
15:7 有一个人名叫巴拉巴，和作乱的人一同囚禁；他们作乱的时候，曾杀过人。
And there was one named Barabbas, bound with the insurrectionists who had committed murder in the insurrection.
15:8 群众上去，求总督照常给他们办。
And the crowd came up and began to ask him to do even as he had been accustomed to do for them.
957
15:9 彼拉多回答他们说，你们要我释放犹太人的王给你们么？
But Pilate answered them, saying, Do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews?
15:10 他原知道祭司长是因嫉妒才把耶稣解了来。
For he knew that it was because of envy that the chief priests had delivered Him up.
15:11 只是祭司长挑唆群众，宁可要他释放巴拉巴给他们。
But the chief priests stirred up the crowd that instead he should release Barabbas to them.
15:12 彼拉多又回答他们说，那么，你们所称为犹太人的王，你们要我怎么办祂？
And Pilate again answered and said to them, What then do you want me to do with Him whom you call the King of the Jews?
15:13 他们又喊着说，钉祂十字架！
And again they cried out, Crucify Him!
15:14 彼拉多对他们说，为什么？祂作了什么恶事？他们却更加喊叫：钉祂十字架！
But Pilate said to them, Why, what evil has He done? But they cried out the more, Crucify Him!
15:15 彼拉多想要叫群众满意，就释放巴拉巴给他们，将耶稣鞭打了，交给人钉十字架。
And Pilate, wishing to satisfy the crowd, released to them Barabbas and scourged Jesus and delivered Him up to be crucified.
15:16 兵丁把耶稣带进总督府的院子里，叫齐了全营的兵。
And the soldiers led Him away within the courtyard, that is, the praetorium, and called together the whole cohort.
15:17 他们给祂穿上紫袍，又把编成的荆棘冠冕给祂戴上，
And they clothed Him in purple and wove a thorny crown and put it around His head.
15:18 就向祂致敬说，犹太人的王！愿你喜乐！
And they began to salute Him: Rejoice, King of the Jews!
15:19 又用一根苇子打祂的头，向祂吐唾沫，屈膝拜祂。
And they beat His head with a reed and spat at Him. And kneeling down, they bowed before Him.
15:20 戏弄完了，就脱下祂的紫袍，给祂穿上自己的衣服，带祂出去，要钉祂十字架。
And when they had mocked Him, they stripped Him of the purple and put His garments on Him. And they led Him out to crucify Him.
15:21 有一个古利奈人西门，就是亚力山大和鲁孚的父亲，从乡下来，经过那里，他们就强迫他背耶稣的十字架。
And they compelled a certain passerby coming from the country, Simon a Cyrenian, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to take up His cross.
15:22 他们带耶稣到了各各他地方，（各各他翻出来，就是髑髅地，）
And they brought Him to the place Golgotha, which is interpreted, the Place of a Skull.
15:23 拿没药调和的酒给祂，祂却不接受。
And they tried to give Him wine mixed with myrrh, but He did not take it.
15:24 于是将祂钉十字架，拈阄分祂的衣服，看谁该得什么。
And they crucified Him and divided His garments, casting lots for them to see what each should take.
15:25 他们将祂钉了十字架，乃是在上午九时。
Now it was the third hour and they crucified Him.
15:26 其上的罪状牌写着：犹太人的王。
And there was an inscription of the charge against Him inscribed: The King Of The JEWS.
15:27 他们又把两个强盗，和祂同钉十字架，一个在右边，一个在左边。
And with Him they crucified two robbers, one on His right and one on His left.
15:28 这就应验了经上的话，说，“祂被列在不法的人当中。”
And the Scripture was fulfilled which says, "And He was counted with the lawless.''
15:29 经过的人亵渎祂，摇着头说，咳！你这拆毁圣殿，三日内建造起来的，
And those who were passing by blasphemed Him, wagging their heads and saying, Aha! You who destroy the temple and build it in three days,
15:30 救你自己吧！从十字架上下来吧！
Save Yourself and come down from the cross!
15:31 祭司长和经学家也是这样戏弄祂，彼此说，祂救了别人，不能救自己。
Likewise also the chief priests with the scribes mocked Him with one another and said, He saved others; Himself He cannot save.
15:32 以色列的王基督，现在可以从十字架上下来，叫我们看见就信。那和祂同钉的人也是辱骂祂。
Let the Christ, the King of Israel, come down now from the cross that we may see and believe. Those who were crucified with Him also reproached Him.
15:33 从正午到午后三时，遍地都黑暗了。
And when the sixth hour came, darkness fell over the whole land until the ninth hour.
15:34 午后三时，耶稣大声喊着：以罗伊，以罗伊，拉马撒巴各大尼？翻出来就是：我的神，我的神，你为什么弃绝我？
And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? which is interpreted, My God, My God, why have You forsaken Me?
15:35 旁边站着的人，有的听见就说，看哪，祂呼叫以利亚。
And some of those standing by heard this and said, Behold, He is calling for Elijah.
15:36 有一个人跑去，把海绵蘸满了醋，绑在苇子上，送给祂喝，说，等一等，看以利亚来不来把祂取下。
And someone ran and filled a sponge with vinegar, and putting it on a reed, gave it to Him to drink, saying, Let Him be. Let us see if Elijah is coming to take Him
down.
15:37 耶稣大声喊叫，气就断了。
And Jesus let out a loud cry and expired.
15:38 殿里的幔子从上到下裂为两半。
And the veil of the temple was split in two from top to bottom.
15:39 对面站着的百夫长，看见祂这样断气，就说，这人真是神的儿子。
And the centurion standing by opposite Him, seeing that He expired in this way, said, Truly this man was the Son of God.
15:40 还有些妇女，远远的观看，其中有抹大拉的马利亚，又有小雅各和约西的母亲马利亚，并有撒罗米，
And there were also some women looking on from a distance, among whom were Mary the Magdalene, and Mary the mother of the younger James and of
Joses, and Salome,
958
15:41 就是耶稣在加利利的时候，跟随祂，服事祂的那些人，另外还有许多跟祂同上耶路撒冷的妇女。
Who, when He was in Galilee, followed Him and ministered to Him, as well as many other women who came up with Him to Jerusalem.
15:42 到了黄昏，因为这是预备日，就是安息日的前一日，
And when evening had fallen, since it was the day of preparation, that is, the day before the Sabbath,
15:43 有亚利马太的一个人约瑟前来；他是尊贵的议士，也是盼望神国的，他放胆进到彼拉多那里，求耶稣的身体。
Joseph, the honorable member of the Council, from Arimathea, who was also himself awaiting the kingdom of God, came; and gathering courage, he went in to
Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
15:44 彼拉多希奇耶稣已经死了，便叫百夫长来，问他耶稣死了久不久。
And Pilate marveled that He had already died, and calling to him the centurion, he questioned him whether He had been dead long.
15:45 他既从百夫长得知实情，就把耶稣的尸首给了约瑟。
And when he found out from the centurion, he granted the corpse to Joseph.
15:46 约瑟买了细麻布，把耶稣取下来，用细麻布裹好，安放在磐石中凿出来的坟墓里，又辊过一块石头来挡住墓门。
And Joseph purchased a piece of fine linen, took Him down, and wrapped Him in the fine linen. And he laid Him in a tomb which was hewn out of rock and
rolled a stone against the door of the tomb.
15:47 抹大拉的马利亚，和约西的母亲马利亚，都看见安放祂的地方。
And Mary the Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses saw where He was laid.
马可福音 Mark 第 16 章
16:1 过了安息日，抹大拉的马利亚，和雅各的母亲马利亚，并撒罗米，买了香料，要去膏耶稣的身体。
And when the Sabbath was past, Mary the Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome bought spices so that they might come and anoint Him.
16:2 七日的第一日大清早，日出的时候，她们来到坟墓那里。
And very early on the first day of the week, they came to the tomb as the sun rose.
16:3 彼此说，谁给我们把石头从墓门辊开？
And they said to one another, Who will roll away the stone for us from the door of the tomb?
16:4 原来那石头很大。她们往上一看，却见石头已经辊开了。
And when they looked up, they saw that the stone had been rolled away, for it was extremely large.
16:5 她们进了坟墓，看见一个青年人坐在右边，穿着白袍，就甚惊恐。
And when they entered into the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right, clothed in a white robe, and they were alarmed.
16:6 他对她们说，不要惊恐，你们寻找那钉十字架的拿撒勒人耶稣，祂已经复活了，不在这里，请看安放祂的地方。
And he said to them, Do not be alarmed. You are seeking Jesus the Nazarene, who has been crucified. He has been raised; He is not here. Behold the place
where they laid Him.
16:7 你们要去告诉祂的门徒和彼得说，祂在你们以先往加利利去，在那里你们要看见祂，正如祂从前所告诉你们的。
But go, tell His disciples and Peter that He is going before you into Galilee. There you will see Him, even as He told you.
16:8 她们因感战栗惊慌，就出来，从坟墓那里逃跑；由于害怕，她们什么也不告诉人。
And they went out and fled from the tomb, for trembling and astonishment had seized them. And they said nothing to anyone, for they were afraid.
16:9 在七日的第一日清早，耶稣复活了，就先向抹大拉的马利亚显现，耶稣从她身上曾赶出七个鬼。
Now after He had risen early on the first day of the week, He appeared first to Mary the Magdalene, from whom He had cast out seven demons.
16:10 她去报告那向来与耶稣同在的人，那时他们正哀恸哭泣。
She went and reported to those who had been with Him, who were mourning and weeping.
16:11 他们听见耶稣活了，且被马利亚看见，却是不信。
And when they heard that He was alive and had been seen by her, they did not believe.
16:12 这事以后，门徒中间有两个人，往乡下去，走路的时候，耶稣以不同的形状向他们显现。
And after these things, He appeared in a different form to two of them as they were walking on their way into the countryside.
16:13 他们就去报告其余的门徒，那些门徒也是不信他们。
And they went away and reported to the rest, but they did not believe them either.
16:14 后来十一个门徒坐席的时候，耶稣向他们显现，责备他们不信，心里刚硬，因为他们不信那些在祂复活以后看见祂的人。
And afterward He appeared to the eleven as they were reclining at table, and He reproached their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they did not believe
those who had seen Him after He had risen.
16:15 祂又对他们说，你们往普天下去，向一切受造之物传扬福音。
And He said to them, Go into all the world and proclaim the gospel to all the creation.
16:16 信而受浸的必然得救，不信的必被定罪。
He who believes and is baptized shall be saved, but he who does not believe shall be condemned.
16:17 信的人必有神迹随着他们，就是在我的名里赶鬼，说新方言，
And these signs will accompany those who believe: in My name they will cast out demons; they will speak with new tongues;
16:18 手能拿蛇，若喝了什么致死之物，也绝不受害，手按病人，病人就必好了。
They will pick up serpents; and if they drink anything deadly, it shall by no means harm them; they will lay hands on the sick, and they will be well.
16:19 主耶稣对他们说完了话以后，就被接到天上，坐在神的右边。
So then the Lord Jesus, after speaking to them, was taken up into heaven and sat at the right hand of God.
16:20 门徒出去，到处传道，主和他们同工，用神迹随着，证实所传的道。
And they went out and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them and confirming the word by the accompanying signs.
959
42. 路加福音 Luke
路加福音 Luke 第 1 章
1:1 提阿非罗大人哪，因为有好些人已经着手作书，述说在我们中间所完全成就的事，
Inasmuch as many have undertaken to draw up a narrative concerning the matters which have been fully accomplished among us,
1:2 是照那些从起初亲眼看见，又将这道供应我们的人，所交付我们的；
Even as those who from the beginning became eyewitnesses and ministers of the word have delivered them to us,
1:3 这一切的事我既从起头都详确考察了，就认为也该按着次序写给你，
It seemed good to me also, having carefully investigated all things from the first, to write them out for you in an orderly fashion, most excellent Theophilus,
1:4 使你深知所教导你的事，都是确实的。
So that you may fully know the certainty of the things concerning which you were instructed.
1:5 在犹太王希律的日子，亚比雅班里有一位祭司，名叫撒迦利亚；他妻子是亚伦的后代，名叫以利沙伯。
In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a certain priest named Zachariah, of the course of Abijah; and his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her
name was Elizabeth.
1:6 他们二人在神面前都是义人，遵行主的一切诫命、典章，无可指摘，
And they were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord, blameless.
1:7 只是没有孩子，因为以利沙伯不生育，两个人又上了年纪。
And they had no child, because Elizabeth was barren, and they were both advanced in their days.
1:8 有一天，撒迦利亚按着班次，在神面前供祭司的职分，
And while he served as priest in the order of his course before God,
1:9 照祭司职任的规矩中了签，得进主殿烧香。
According to the custom of the priestly service, the lot fell to him to enter into the temple of the Lord and burn incense.
1:10 烧香的时候，全群的百姓在外面祷告。
And all the multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of the burning of incense.
1:11 有主的使者站在香坛的右边，向他显现。
And an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing at the right side of the altar of incense.
1:12 撒迦利亚看见，就惊慌害怕。
And Zachariah was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him.
1:13 天使对他说，撒迦利亚，不要害怕，因为你的祈求已蒙垂听，你的妻子以利沙伯要给你生一个儿子，你要给他起名叫约翰。
But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zachariah, because your petition has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his
name John.
1:14 你必喜乐欢腾，有许多人因他出生，也必欢乐。
And you will have joy and exultation, and many will rejoice at his birth.
1:15 他在主面前将要为大，淡酒、浓酒都不喝，从母腹里就被圣灵充溢了。
For he will be great in the sight of the Lord, and he shall by no means drink wine and liquor. And he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb,
1:16 他要使许多以色列子孙转向主他们的神。
And many of the sons of Israel he will turn to the Lord their God.
1:17 他必凭以利亚的灵和能力，行在主的面前，叫父亲的心转向儿女，并叫悖逆的人转向义人的精明，为主预备合用的百姓。
And it is he who will go before Him in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the prudence of the
righteous, to prepare for the Lord a people made ready.
1:18 撒迦利亚对天使说，我凭什么可以知道这事？我已经老了，我的妻子也上了年纪。
And Zachariah said to the angel, By what shall I know this? For I am an old man and my wife is advanced in years.
1:19 天使回答说，我是站在神面前的加百列，奉差遣对你说话，将这些事的好信息报给你。
And the angel answered and said to him, I am Gabriel, who stands before God, and I was sent to speak to you and to announce the good news of these things
to you.
1:20 到了时候，我的话必然应验；只因你不信，看哪，你必哑口不能说话，直到这些事成就的日子。
And behold, you shall be silent and not able to speak until the day that these things happen, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their
time.
1:21 百姓等候撒迦利亚，当他在殿里迟延的时候，他们都希奇。
And the people were waiting for Zachariah, and they marveled at his delaying in the temple.
1:22 等他出来，不能和他们说话，他们就知道他在殿里见了异象。他直向他们打手式，竟成了哑吧。
And when he came out, he was not able to speak to them, and they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple. And he made signs to them and remained
dumb.
1:23 他供职的日子满了，就回家去了。
And when the days of his service were fulfilled, he went to his house.
1:24 这些日子以后，他的妻子以利沙伯怀了孕，就隐藏了五个月，说，
And after these days Elizabeth his wife conceived and stayed in seclusion for five months, saying,
1:25 主在眷顾的日子，这样待我，要把我在人间的羞耻除掉。
In this way has the Lord dealt with me in the days in which He looked upon me to take away my reproach among men.
1:26 到了第六个月，天使加百列奉神差遣，往加利利的一座城去，这城名叫拿撒勒。
And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth,
1:27 到一个童女那里，是已经许配大卫家的一个人，名叫约瑟，童女的名字叫马利亚。
To a virgin engaged to a man named Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin's name was Mary.
1:28 天使进去，对她说，蒙大恩的女子，愿你喜乐！主与你同在了。
And he came to her and said, Rejoice, you who have been graced! The Lord is with you.
960
1:29 她因这话就很惊慌，又反覆思想这样问安是什么意思。
And she was greatly troubled at this saying and began reasoning what kind of greeting this might be.
1:30 天使对她说，马利亚，不要怕，你在神面前已经蒙恩了。
And the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found grace with God.
1:31 看哪，你将怀孕生子，要给祂起名叫耶稣。
And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call His name Jesus.
1:32 祂要为大，称为至高者的儿子，主神要把祂祖大卫的宝座给祂，
He will be great and will be called Son of the Most High; and the Lord God will give to Him the throne of David His father,
1:33 祂要作雅各家的王，直到永远，祂的国也没有穷尽。
And He will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of His kingdom there will be no end.
1:34 马利亚对天使说，我没有出嫁，怎么会有这事？
But Mary said to the angel, How will this be, since I have not known a man?
1:35 天使回答说，圣灵要临到你身上，至高者的能力要覆庇你，因此所要生的圣者，必称为神的儿子。
And the angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you; therefore also the holy thing
which is born will be called the Son of God.
1:36 况且你看，你的亲戚以利沙伯，就是那素来称为不生育的，在年老的时候，也怀了男胎，现在已是第六个月了。
And behold, Elizabeth your relative, she also has conceived a son in her old age, and this is the sixth month for her who is called barren,
1:37 因为在神，没有一句话是不可能的。
Because no word will be impossible with God.
1:38 马利亚说，看哪，我是主的婢女，情愿照你的话成就在我身上。天使就离开她去了。
And Mary said, Behold, the slave of the Lord. May it happen to me according to your word. And the angel departed from her.
1:39 在那些日子，马利亚起身，急忙往山地里去，来到犹大的一座城，
And Mary rose up in those days and went to the hill country with haste, to a city of Judah,
1:40 进了撒迦利亚的家，问以利沙伯安。
And entered into the house of Zachariah and greeted Elizabeth.
1:41 以利沙伯一听到马利亚问安，所怀的胎就在腹里跳动，以利沙伯且被圣灵充溢，
And when Elizabeth heard Mary's greeting, the baby leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit.
1:42 高声喊着说，你在妇女中是有福的，你腹中的果子也是有福的。
And she lifted up her voice with a loud cry and said, Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb!
1:43 我主的母亲竟然到我这里来，这事怎么会临到我？
And how has this happened to me, that the mother of my Lord should come to me?
1:44 看哪，你问安的声音一入我耳，我腹里的胎就欢腾跳动。
For behold, when the sound of your greeting came to my ears, the baby leaped with exultation in my womb.
1:45 这相信的女子是有福的，因为主对她所说的事，都要完成。
And blessed is she who has believed, because there will be a completion of the things spoken to her from the Lord.
1:46 马利亚说，我魂尊主为大，
And Mary said, My soul magnifies the Lord,
1:47 我灵曾以神我的救主为乐，
And my spirit has exulted in God my Savior;
1:48 因祂顾念祂婢女的卑微。看哪，从今以后，万代要称我有福。
Because He has looked upon the low estate of His slave. For behold, from now on all generations will count me blessed,
1:49 那有权能的为我行了大事，祂的名为圣；
Because the Mighty One has done great things for me, and holy is His name.
1:50 祂的怜悯归与敬畏祂的人，直到世世代代。
And His mercy is unto generations and generations, unto those who fear Him.
1:51 祂用膀臂施展权能，驱散那些心里妄想的狂傲人。
He has exercised might with His arm; He has scattered those who are proud in the understanding of their heart.
1:52 祂叫有权柄的失位，叫卑微的升高，
He has brought down potentates from thrones and has exalted the humble;
1:53 叫饥饿的得饱美物，叫富足的空着回去。
The hungry He has filled with good things, and the rich He has sent away empty.
1:54 祂扶助了祂的仆人以色列，
He has upheld Israel His servant to remember mercy,
1:55 为要记念祂向亚伯拉罕和他后裔所施的怜悯，直到永远，正如祂对我们列祖所说的。
Even as He spoke to our fathers, to Abraham and to his seed forever.
1:56 马利亚和以利沙伯同住约有三个月，就回家去了。
And Mary remained with her about three months, and returned to her home.
1:57 以利沙伯的产期到了，就生了一个儿子。
Now the time was fulfilled for Elizabeth to give birth, and she bore a son.
1:58 邻里亲族听见主向她大施怜悯，就和她一同欢乐。
And her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had magnified His mercy with her, and they rejoiced with her.
1:59 到了第八日，他们来要给孩子行割礼，并有意照他父亲的名字，叫他撒迦利亚。
And on the eighth day they came to circumcise the little child, and they tried to call him after the name of his father, Zachariah.
1:60 但他母亲说，不可，要叫他约翰。
Yet his mother answered and said, No, but he shall be called John.
1:61 他们对她说，你亲族中没有叫这名字的。
961
And they said to her, There is no one among your relatives who is called by this name.
1:62 他们就向他父亲打手式，看他愿意叫他什么。
And they gestured to his father as to what he would want him to be called.
1:63 他要了一块写字板，就写上说，他的名字是约翰。他们便都希奇。
And asking for a tablet, he wrote, saying, John is his name. And they all marveled.
1:64 撒迦利亚的口立时开了，舌头也舒展了，就说出话来，颂赞神。
And his mouth was opened instantly, and his tongue loosed, and he began to speak, blessing God.
1:65 住在周围的人都起了敬畏，这一切的事就传遍了全犹太山地。
And fear came on all those dwelling around them, and in all the hill country of Judea all these things were spread about.
1:66 凡听见的人，都将这事放在心里，说，这个孩子将来会怎么样？因为主的手与他同在。
And all who heard these things put them in their heart, saying, What then will this little child be? For indeed the hand of the Lord was with him.
1:67 他父亲撒迦利亚被圣灵充溢，就申言说，
And Zachariah his father was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying,
1:68 主以色列的神是当受颂赞的，因祂眷顾祂的百姓，为他们施行救赎，
Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, because He has visited and accomplished redemption for His people,
1:69 在祂仆人大卫家中，为我们兴起了拯救的角，
And raised a horn of salvation for us in the house of David His servant,
1:70 正如祂从时间起首，借着圣申言者的口所说的，
Even as He spoke through the mouth of His holy prophets from of old --
1:71 拯救我们脱离仇敌，和一切恨我们之人的手；
Salvation from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us,
1:72 向我们列祖施怜悯，记念祂的圣约，
To accomplish mercy with our fathers and to remember His holy covenant,
1:73 就是祂对我们祖宗亚伯拉罕所起的誓，
The oath which He swore to Abraham our father,
1:74 叫我们既从仇敌手中被救出来，
To grant us that we, having been delivered out of the hand of our enemies, might serve Him without fear,
1:75 就可以一生一世在祂面前，坦然无惧的用圣和义事奉祂。
In holiness and righteousness before Him all our days.
1:76 孩子阿，你要称为至高者的申言者，因为你要行在主的面前，预备祂的道路，
And you also, little child, shall be called a prophet of the Most High, for you will go before the Lord to prepare His ways,
1:77 叫祂的百姓因罪得赦，就认识救恩。
To give knowledge of salvation to His people by the forgiveness of their sins,
1:78 因我们神怜悯的心肠，叫清晨的日光从高天临到我们，
Because of the merciful compassions of our God, in which the rising sun will visit us from on high,
1:79 要照亮坐在黑暗中死荫里的人，把我们的脚引到平安的路上。
To shine upon those sitting in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace.
1:80 那孩子渐渐长大，灵里刚强，住在旷野，直到他向以色列人显明的日子。
And the little child grew and became strong in spirit, and he was in the wilderness until the day of his presentation to Israel.
路加福音 Luke 第 2 章
2:1 那些日子，该撒亚古士督出了一道诏谕，叫普天下的人都申报户口。
And in those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus for a census to be taken of all the inhabited earth.
2:2 这是第一次的户口申报，是在居里扭作叙利亚总督的时候举行的。
This was the first census that took place when Quirinius governed Syria.
2:3 众人各归各城，去申报户口。
And all went to be registered, each to his own city.
2:4 约瑟也从加利利的拿撒勒城上犹太去，到了大卫的城，名叫伯利恒，因他本是大卫一家一族的人，
And Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea, to David's city, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and family of
David,
2:5 要和许配给他，已有身孕的马利亚，一同申报户口。
To be registered with Mary, who was engaged to him and was pregnant.
2:6 他们在那里的时候，马利亚的产期到了，
And while they were there, the days were fulfilled for her to bear,
2:7 就生了头胎的儿子，用布包起来，放在马槽里，因为客房里没有为着他们的地方。
And she bore her firstborn son; and she wrapped Him in swaddling clothes and laid Him in a manger because there was no place for them in the inn.
2:8 在同一地区，有牧人露宿在野地里，夜间守更看顾羊群。
And there were shepherds in the same region, spending their nights in the fields and keeping watch over their flock by night.
2:9 有主的使者站在他们旁边，主的荣耀四面照着他们，牧人就大大惧怕。
And an angel of the Lord stood by them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them; and they feared greatly.
2:10 那天使对他们说，不要惧怕，看哪，我报给你们大喜的好信息，是关乎万民的。
And the angel said to them, Do not be afraid; for behold, I announce to you good news of great joy, which will be for all the people,
2:11 因今天在大卫的城里，为你们生了救主，就是主基督。
Because today a Savior has been born to you in David's city, who is Christ the Lord.
962
2:12 你们要看见一个婴孩，包着布，卧在马槽里，那就是给你们的记号了。
And this will be the sign to you: you will find a baby wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger.
2:13 忽然有一大队天兵，同那天使赞美神说，
And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly army, praising God and saying,
2:14 在至高之处荣耀归与神，在地上平安临及祂所喜悦的人。
Glory in the highest places to God, and on earth peace among men of His good pleasure.
2:15 众天使离开他们往天上去了；牧人彼此说，我们往伯利恒去，看看所发生的事，就是主所指示我们的。
And when the angels departed from them into heaven, the shepherds spoke to one another, Let us go then to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened,
which the Lord has made known to us.
2:16 他们急忙去了，就寻见马利亚和约瑟，又有那婴孩卧在马槽里。
And they came in haste and found both Mary and Joseph, and the baby lying in the manger.
2:17 既已看见，就把天使对他们论这孩子的话传开了。
And when they had seen this, they made known the word which was spoken to them concerning this little child.
2:18 凡听见的，都希奇牧人对他们所说的。
And all those who heard marveled at the things spoken to them by the shepherds.
2:19 马利亚却把这一切的事存在心里，反覆思想。
But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart.
2:20 牧人回去了，因所听见所看见的一切事，正如天使向他们所说的，就荣耀、赞美神。
And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things which they had heard and seen, even as it was spoken to them.
2:21 满了八天，就给孩子行割礼，并给祂起名叫耶稣，就是祂成胎以前，天使所起的名。
And when eight days were fulfilled to circumcise Him, His name was called Jesus, the name given by the angel before He was conceived in the womb.
2:22 按摩西律法满了洁净的日子，他们带着孩子上耶路撒冷去，要把祂献与主，
And when the days for their purification according to the law of Moses were fulfilled, they brought Him up to Jerusalem to present Him to the Lord
2:23 正如主的律法上所记：“凡头生的男子，必称圣归主。”
(Even as it is written in the law of the Lord, "Every male who opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord''),
2:24 又要照主律法上所说的，献上祭物，就是一对斑鸠或两只雏鸽。
And to give a sacrifice according to what is said in the law of the Lord: A pair of turtledoves or two young doves.
2:25 看哪，在耶路撒冷有一个人名叫西面，这人既公义又虔诚，素来盼望以色列的安慰，又有圣灵在他身上。
And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. And this man was righteous and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy
Spirit was upon him.
2:26 他受了圣灵的指示，知道自己看见主的基督以前，必不见死。
And it had been divinely communicated to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ.
2:27 他在灵里进入圣殿；耶稣的父母正抱着孩子进来，要照律法的规矩为祂办理。
And he came in the Spirit into the temple; and when the parents brought in the little child Jesus for them to do according to the custom of the law concerning Him,
2:28 西面就把祂接到手臂中，颂赞神说，
He received Him into his arms and blessed God and said,
2:29 主人阿，如今照你的话，释放奴仆安然而去吧；
Now You release Your slave, Master, according to Your word, in peace;
2:30 因为我的眼睛已经看见你的救恩，
For my eyes have seen Your salvation,
2:31 就是你在万民面前所预备的，
Which You have prepared before the face of all the peoples,
2:32 是启示外邦人的光，又是你民以色列的荣耀。
A light for revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of Your people Israel.
2:33 孩子的父母因这论耶稣的话就希奇。
And His father and mother marveled at the things being spoken about Him.
2:34 西面给他们祝福，又对孩子的母亲马利亚说，看哪，这孩子被立，是要叫以色列中许多人跌倒，许多人兴起，又要成为受人反对的标记，
And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary His mother, Behold, this One is appointed for the falling and rising up of many in Israel and for a sign spoken against
--
2:35 叫许多人心里的意念被揭露出来，你自己的魂也要被刀刺透。
And a sword will pierce through your own soul also -- so that the reasonings of many hearts may be revealed.
2:36 又有一位女申言者亚拿，是亚设支派法内力的女儿，已经十分老迈，从作童女出嫁的时候，同丈夫住了七年，
And there was one Anna, a prophetess, a daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher. She was well advanced in years, having lived with her husband seven years
from her virginity,
2:37 就寡居到八十四岁，并不离开圣殿，禁食祈求，昼夜事奉神。
And she was a widow up to the age of eighty-four, who did not depart from the temple, serving God with fastings and petitions night and day.
2:38 那时，她上前来称谢神，将孩子的事对一切盼望耶路撒冷得救赎的人讲说。
And at that very hour she came up and returned thanks to God, and spoke concerning Him to all those waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem.
2:39 约瑟和马利亚，照主的律法办完了一切的事，就回加利利，到自己的城拿撒勒去了。
And when they had finished all things according to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their own city, Nazareth.
2:40 那孩子渐渐长大，刚强起来，充满智慧，又有神的恩在祂身上。
And the little child grew and became strong, being filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon Him.
2:41 每年到逾越节，祂父母就上耶路撒冷去。
And His parents went year by year to Jerusalem at the Feast of the Passover.
2:42 当祂十二岁的时候，他们按着节期的规矩上去。
And when He became twelve years old, they went up according to the custom of the feast.
963
2:43 守满了节日，他们回去的时候，孩童耶稣仍留在耶路撒冷，祂的父母并不知道，
And when they had completed the days, while they were returning, the boy Jesus remained behind in Jerusalem, and His parents did not know it.
2:44 还以为祂在同行的人中间。他们走了一天的路程，就在亲族和熟识的人中找祂，
But supposing that He was in the company, they went a day's journey and sought Him among their relatives and acquaintances.
2:45 既找不着，就回耶路撒冷去找祂。
And when they did not find Him, they returned to Jerusalem searching for Him.
2:46 过了三天，在殿里找着祂，坐在教师中间，一面听，一面问。
And after three days they found Him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the teachers, both hearing them and questioning them.
2:47 凡听见祂的，都惊奇祂的悟性和应对。
And all those who heard Him were amazed at His understanding and His answers.
2:48 祂父母看见，就很惊讶，祂母亲对祂说，孩子，为什么向我们这样行？看哪，你父亲和我多么伤心的在找你。
And when they saw Him, they were astounded; and His mother said to Him, Child, why have You treated us like this? Behold, Your father and I, being greatly
distressed, have been seeking You.
2:49 耶稣对他们说，你们为什么找我？岂不知我必须以我父的事为念么？
And He said to them, Why is it that you were seeking Me? Did you not know that I must be in the things of My Father?
2:50 祂所说的这话，他们并不领悟。
And they did not understand the word which He spoke to them.
2:51 祂就同他们下去，回到拿撒勒，并且服从他们。祂母亲把这一切的事，都谨慎的存在心里。
And He went down with them and came to Nazareth, and was subject to them. And His mother carefully kept all these things in her heart.
2:52 耶稣在智慧和身量，并在神与人面前所显明的恩典上，都不断增长。
And Jesus advanced in wisdom and stature and in the grace manifested in Him before God and men.
路加福音 Luke 第 3 章
3:1 该撒提庇留在位第十五年，本丢彼拉多作犹太总督，希律作加利利分封的王，他兄弟腓力作以土利亚和特拉可尼地方分封的王，吕撒聂作亚比利尼分
封的王，
Now in the fifteenth year of the government of Tiberius Caesar, while Pontius Pilate was governor of Judea, and Herod was tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother
Philip was tetrarch of the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis, and Lysanias was tetrarch of Abilene,
3:2 亚那和该亚法作大祭司。那时，撒迦利亚的儿子约翰在旷野里，神的话临到他。
During the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came to John the son of Zachariah in the wilderness.
3:3 他就来到约但河四周全境，传悔改的浸，使罪得赦。
And he came into all the region surrounding the Jordan, proclaiming a baptism of repentance for forgiveness of sins,
3:4 正如申言者以赛亚书上所记的话：“在旷野有人声喊着：预备主的道路，修直祂的途径。
As it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, "A voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord; make straight His paths.
3:5 一切山洼都要填满，大小山冈都要削平；弯曲的要修为直路，崎岖的要改为坦途；
Every ravine shall be filled up, and every mountain and hill shall be leveled; and the crooked places shall become a straight way, and the rough ways smooth.
3:6 凡属肉体的人，都要看见神的救恩。”
And all flesh shall see the salvation of God.''
3:7 约翰对那些出来要受他浸的群众说，毒蛇之种，谁指示你们逃避要来的忿怒？
He said therefore to the crowds going out to be baptized by him, Offspring of vipers, who prompted you to flee from the coming wrath?
3:8 你们要结出果子，与悔改相称，不要自己心里说，我们有亚伯拉罕作我们的祖宗。我告诉你们，神能从这些石头中给亚伯拉罕兴起子孙来。
Produce then fruits worthy of your repentance, and do not begin to say within yourselves, We have Abraham as our father; for I tell you that God is able out of
these stones to raise up children to Abraham.
3:9 现在斧头已经放在树根上，凡不结好果子的树，就砍下来，丢在火里。
And already also the axe is laid at the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not produce good fruit is cut down and cast into the fire.
3:10 群众问他说，这样，我们当作什么？
And the crowds asked him, saying, What then shall we do?
3:11 约翰回答他们说，有两件里衣的，就分给那没有的，有食物的，也当这样行。
And he answered and said to them, He who has two tunics, let him share with the one who has none; and he who has food, let him do likewise.
3:12 又有税吏来要受浸，问他说，夫子，我们当作什么？
And tax collectors also came to be baptized, and they said to him, Teacher, what shall we do?
3:13 他说，除了给你们规定的，不要多取。
And he said to them, Exact nothing more than what you have been ordered to.
3:14 又有当兵的问他说，我们当作什么？他说，不要以强暴待人，也不要讹诈人，自己有粮饷就当知足。
And some serving in the military also questioned him, saying, And we, what shall we do? And he said to them, Extort nothing from anyone by force, nor take
anything by false accusation, and be content with your wages.
3:15 百姓正在期待的时候，众人都心里议论，或者约翰是基督。
Now while the people were in expectation and all were reasoning in their hearts concerning John, whether he might possibly be the Christ,
3:16 约翰对众人说，我是将你们浸在水里，但有一位能力比我更大的要来，我就是给祂解鞋带也不配，祂要将你们浸在圣灵与火里。
John answered and said to all, I baptize you in water, but He who is stronger than I is coming, the thong of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie. He Himself
will baptize you in the Holy Spirit and fire,
3:17 祂手里拿着扬场的簸箕，要扬净祂的禾场，把麦子收在祂的仓里，把糠秕用不灭的火烧尽了。
Whose winnowing fan is in His hand to thoroughly cleanse His threshing floor and to gather the wheat into His barn, but the chaff He will burn up with
unquenchable fire.
3:18 约翰又用许多别的话劝勉百姓，向他们传福音。
964
So, exhorting them with many other things also, he announced the gospel to the people.
3:19 但分封的王希律，因他兄弟之妻希罗底的缘故，并因他所行的一切恶事，受了约翰的责备，
But Herod the tetrarch, because he was reproved by him concerning Herodias, his brother's wife, and concerning all the evil things which Herod did,
3:20 就在这一切之外，又加上一件，就是把约翰囚在监里。
Added this also above all: he shut John up in prison.
3:21 众百姓都受了浸，耶稣也受了浸；
Now when all the people were baptized and as Jesus was baptized and was praying, heaven was opened,
3:22 正祷告的时候，天就开了，圣灵以仿佛鸽子的形体，降在祂身上，又有声音从天上出来，说，你是我的爱子，我喜悦你。
And the Holy Spirit descended in bodily form as a dove upon Him. And a voice came out of heaven: You are My Son, the Beloved; in You I have found My delight.
3:23 耶稣开始尽职的时候，约有三十岁。依人看来，祂是约瑟的儿子，约瑟是希里的儿子，
And He, Jesus, when He began to minister, was about thirty years old, being, so it was thought, the son of Joseph, the son of Heli,
3:24 希里是玛塔的儿子，玛塔是利未的儿子，利未是麦基的儿子，麦基是雅拿的儿子，雅拿是约瑟的儿子，
The son of Matthat, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Jannai, the son of Joseph,
3:25 约瑟是玛他提亚的儿子，玛他提亚是亚摩斯的儿子，亚摩斯是拿鸿的儿子，拿鸿是以斯利的儿子，以斯利是拿该的儿子，
The son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Naggai,
3:26 拿该是玛押的儿子，玛押是玛他提亚的儿子，玛他提亚是西美的儿子，西美是约西克的儿子，约西克是约大的儿子，
The son of Maath, the son of Mattathias, the son of Semein, the son of Josech, the son of Joda,
3:27 约大是约亚拿的儿子，约亚拿是利撒的儿子，利撒是所罗巴伯的儿子，所罗巴伯是撒拉铁的儿子，撒拉铁是尼利的儿子，
The son of Joanan, the son of Rhesa, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Salathiel, the son of Neri,
3:28 尼利是麦基的儿子，麦基是亚底的儿子，亚底是哥桑的儿子，哥桑是以摩当的儿子，以摩当是珥的儿子，
The son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Cosam, the son of Elmadam, the son of Er,
3:29 珥是耶疏的儿子，耶疏是以利以谢的儿子，以利以谢是约令的儿子，约令是玛塔的儿子，玛塔是利未的儿子，
The son of Joshua, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi,
3:30 利未是西缅的儿子，西缅是犹大的儿子，犹大是约瑟的儿子，约瑟是约南的儿子，约南是以利亚敬的儿子，
The son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonam, the son of Eliakim,
3:31 以利亚敬是米利亚的儿子，米利亚是买拿的儿子，买拿是玛达他的儿子，玛达他是拿单的儿子，拿单是大卫的儿子，
The son of Melea, the son of Menna, the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David,
3:32 大卫是耶西的儿子，耶西是俄备得的儿子，俄备得是波阿斯的儿子，波阿斯是撒门的儿子，撒门是拿顺的儿子，
The son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Salmon, the son of Nahshon,
3:33 拿顺是亚米拿达的儿子，亚米拿达是亚兰的儿子，亚兰是希斯仑的儿子，希斯仑是法勒斯的儿子，法勒斯是犹大的儿子，
The son of Aminadab, the son of Aram, the son of Hezron, the son of Pharez, the son of Judah,
3:34 犹大是雅各的儿子，雅各是以撒的儿子，以撒是亚伯拉罕的儿子，亚伯拉罕是他拉的儿子，他拉是拿鹤的儿子，
The son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor,
3:35 拿鹤是西鹿的儿子，西鹿是拉吴的儿子，拉吴是法勒的儿子，法勒是希伯的儿子，希伯是沙拉的儿子，
The son of Serug, the son of Reu, the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son of Sala,
3:36 沙拉是该南的儿子，该南是亚法撒的儿子，亚法撒是闪的儿子，闪是挪亚的儿子，挪亚是拉麦的儿子，
The son of Cainan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech,
3:37 拉麦是玛土撒拉的儿子，玛土撒拉是以诺的儿子，以诺是雅列的儿子，雅列是玛勒列的儿子，玛勒列是该南的儿子，
The son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Maleleel, the son of Cainan,
3:38 该南是以挪士的儿子，以挪士是塞特的儿子，塞特是亚当的儿子，亚当是神的儿子。
The son of Enosh, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God.
路加福音 Luke 第 4 章
4:1 耶稣满有圣灵，从约但河回来，在旷野为那灵引导，四十天受魔鬼的试诱。
And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit in the wilderness, while being tempted for forty days by the devil.
4:2 那些日子祂没有吃什么，日子满了，祂就饿了。
And He did not eat anything in those days, and when they were concluded, He became hungry.
4:3 魔鬼对祂说，你若是神的儿子，就叫这块石头变成饼吧。
And the devil said to Him, If You are the Son of God, speak to this stone that it become bread.
4:4 耶稣回答说，经上记着，“人活着不是单靠食物。”
And Jesus answered him, It is written, "Man shall not live on bread alone.''
4:5 魔鬼又领祂上了高山，霎时间将天下万国都指给祂看。
And he led Him up and showed Him all the kingdoms of the inhabited earth in a moment of time.
4:6 魔鬼对祂说，这一切权柄及其荣耀，我都要给你；因为这原是交付我的，我愿意给谁就给谁。
And the devil said to Him, To You I will give all this authority and their glory, because to me it has been delivered, and to whomever I want I give it.
4:7 所以你若在我面前下拜，这一切就都是你的了。
If You therefore worship before me, it shall all be Yours.
4:8 耶稣回答他说，经上记着，“当拜主你的神，单要事奉祂。”
And Jesus answered and said to him, It is written, "You shall worship the Lord your God, and Him only shall you serve.''
4:9 魔鬼又领祂到耶路撒冷，叫祂站在殿翼上，对祂说，你若是神的儿子，就从这里跳下去吧；
And he led Him into Jerusalem and set Him on the wing of the temple and said to Him, If You are the Son of God, cast Yourself down from here;
4:10 因为经上记着，“主要为你吩咐祂的使者保护你，
For it is written, "To His angels He shall give charge concerning You to protect You,
4:11 他们要用手托着你，免得你的脚碰在石头上。”
965
And on their hands they shall bear You up, lest You strike Your foot against a stone.''
4:12 耶稣回答他说，经上说，“不可试探主你的神。”
And Jesus answered and said to him, It is said, "You shall not test the Lord your God.''
4:13 魔鬼用完了各样的试诱，就离开耶稣，等另一时机。
And when the devil had concluded every temptation, he went away from Him until an opportune time.
4:14 耶稣在那灵的能力中回到加利利，祂的名声就传遍了四周全境。
And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee. And reports about Him went out through all the surrounding region.
4:15 祂在他们的会堂里施教，受众人的荣耀。
And He taught in their synagogues and was glorified by all.
4:16 耶稣来到拿撒勒，就是祂长大的地方，在安息日，祂照例进了会堂，站起来要念圣经。
And He came to Nazareth, where He had been brought up, and according to His custom He entered on the Sabbath day into the synagogue and stood up to
read.
4:17 有人把申言者以赛亚的书卷递给祂，祂展开书卷，找到一处上面写着：
And the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was handed to Him. And He unrolled the scroll and found the place where it was written,
4:18 “主的灵在我身上，因为祂膏了我，叫我传福音给贫穷的人，差遣我去宣扬被掳的得释放，瞎眼的得复明，叫那受压制的得自由，
"The Spirit of the Lord is upon Me, because He has anointed Me to announce the gospel to the poor; He has sent Me to proclaim release to the captives, and
recovery of sight to the blind, to send away in release those who are oppressed,
4:19 宣扬主悦纳人的禧年。”
To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord, the year of jubilee.''
4:20 于是把书卷卷起来，交还堂役，就坐下，会堂里的众人都定睛看祂。
And when He rolled up the scroll and gave it back to the attendant, He sat down. And the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on Him.
4:21 祂就对他们说，今天这经应验在你们耳中了。
And He began to say to them, Today this Scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing.
4:22 众人都称赞祂，并希奇祂口中所出的恩言，又说，这不是约瑟的儿子么？
And all bore witness to Him and marveled at the words of grace proceeding out of His mouth, and they said, Is not this Joseph's son?
4:23 耶稣对他们说，你们必向我说这俗语：医生，医治你自己吧。我们听见你在迦百农所行的事，也在你的家乡这里行吧。
And He said to them, Surely you will say this proverb to Me, Physician, heal yourself! What we heard happening in Capernaum, do here also in Your own country.
4:24 祂又说，我实在告诉你们，没有申言者在自己家乡是被人悦纳的。
And He said, Truly I say to you that no prophet is acceptable in his own country.
4:25 我据实告诉你们，当以利亚的日子，天闭塞了三年零六个月，遍地有大饥荒，那时以色列中有许多寡妇；
But in truth I say to you, There were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the sky was shut up for three years and six months, when a great famine
came over all the land;
4:26 以利亚并没有奉差遣往她们一个人那里去，只奉差遣往西顿的撒勒法，一个寡妇那里去。
And to none of them was Elijah sent, except to the city of Sarepta of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow.
4:27 申言者以利沙的时候，以色列中有许多患痲疯的，其中除了叙利亚人乃缦，没有一个得洁净的。
And there were many lepers in Israel during the time of Elisha the prophet, and none of them were cleansed, except Naaman the Syrian.
4:28 会堂里的众人听见这话，都怒气填胸，
And all in the synagogue were filled with anger when they heard these things,
4:29 就起来撵祂出城。他们的城造在山上，他们带祂到山崖，要把祂推下去。
And they rose up and cast Him out of the city and led Him to the brow of the hill on which their city was built so that they might throw Him down the cliff.
4:30 祂却从他们中间穿过去，走开了。
But He, passing through their midst, went away.
4:31 耶稣下到迦百农，就是加利利的一座城，在安息日教训众人。
And He came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee. And He taught them on the Sabbath.
4:32 他们都惊讶祂的教训，因为祂的话带着权柄。
And they were astounded at His teaching, because His word was with authority.
4:33 在会堂里有一个人，被污鬼的灵附着，大声喊叫说，
And in the synagogue there was a man who had a spirit of an unclean demon, and he cried out with a loud voice,
4:34 唉，拿撒勒人耶稣，我们与你何干？你来除灭我们么？我知道你是谁，乃是神的圣者。
Ah! What do we have to do with You, Jesus, Nazarene? Have You come to destroy us? I know who You are -- the Holy One of God.
4:35 耶稣便斥责他说，不要作声，从这人身上出来！鬼把那人摔倒在众人中间，就从他身上出来了，一点没有伤害他。
And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be quiet and come out from him. And throwing him down in the midst, the demon came out from him without harming him at all.
4:36 众人都希奇，彼此谈论说，这话是怎么回事？祂用权柄和能力命令污灵，污灵就出来了。
And amazement came upon all, and they spoke to one another, saying, What is this word? For with authority and power He orders the unclean spirits, and they
come out.
4:37 于是耶稣的名声传遍了四周各地。
And reports went out concerning Him into every place of the surrounding region.
4:38 耶稣起身离开会堂，进了西门的家，西门的岳母正患热病甚重，有人为她求耶稣。
And He rose up and went from the synagogue and entered into the house of Simon. And Simon's mother-in-law was suffering with a high fever, and they asked
Him concerning her.
4:39 耶稣站在她旁边，斥责那热病，热就退了，她立刻起来服事他们。
And standing over her, He rebuked the fever, and it left her. And she instantly rose up and served them.
4:40 日落的时候，凡有病人的，不论患什么病，都带到耶稣跟前；耶稣按手在他们各人身上，治好了他们。
And when the sun was setting, all those who had any that were sick with various diseases brought them to Him; and He laid His hands on each one of them and
healed them.
4:41 又有鬼从好些人身上出来，喊着说，你是神的儿子。耶稣斥责它们，不许它们说话，因为它们知道祂是基督。
966
And demons also came out from many, crying out and saying, You are the Son of God! And He rebuked them and would not allow them to speak, because they
knew that He was the Christ.
4:42 天亮的时候，耶稣出来，走到旷野地方。群众去找祂，到了祂那里，要留住祂，不要祂离开他们。
And when day came, He departed and went into a deserted place. And the crowds sought Him, and they came up to Him and tried to hold on to Him so that He
would not go away from them.
4:43 但耶稣对他们说，我也必须向别城传神的国为福音，因我奉差遣正是为此。
But He said to them, I must announce the gospel of the kingdom of God to the other cities also, because for this I was sent.
4:44 于是耶稣在犹太的各会堂传道。
And He preached in the synagogues of Judea.
路加福音 Luke 第 5 章
5:1 耶稣站在革尼撒勒湖边，群众拥挤祂，要听神的话。
And as the crowd pressed upon Him to hear the word of God, He was standing by the lake of Gennesaret.
5:2 祂看见两只船停在湖边，打鱼的人却离开船，洗网去了。
And He saw two boats lying by the lake, and the fishermen had gotten out of them and were washing the nets.
5:3 有一只船是西门的，耶稣就上去，请他把船撑开，稍微离岸，就坐下，从船上教训群众。
And He got into one of the boats, which was Simon's, and asked him to put out a little from the land. And He sat down and from the boat taught the crowds.
5:4 祂讲完了，对西门说，把船开到水深之处，下网打鱼。
And when He ceased speaking, He said to Simon, Put out into the deep and let down your nets for a catch.
5:5 西门回答说，夫子，我们整夜劳苦，并没有打着什么，但依从你的话，我就下网。
And Simon answered and said, Master, through the whole night we toiled and caught nothing; but based on Your word I will let down the nets.
5:6 他们这样作，就圈住一大群鱼，网几乎裂开。
And when they did this, they enclosed a great number of fish, and their nets began to tear apart.
5:7 他们便招呼另一只船上的同伙来帮助。他们就来把鱼装满了两只船，甚至船要沉下去。
And they signaled to their companions in the other boat to come and assist them. And they came and filled both the boats, so that they began to sink.
5:8 西门彼得看见，就俯伏在耶稣膝前，说，主阿，离开我，因我是个罪人。
And when Simon Peter saw this, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, Lord.
5:9 他和一切同在的人，都希奇这一网所打的鱼。
For amazement had taken possession of him and all who were with him, because of the catch of the fish which they took;
5:10 西门的伙伴，西庇太的儿子雅各和约翰也是这样。耶稣对西门说，不要怕，从今以后你要得人了。
And likewise also James and John, the sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said to Simon, Do not be afraid. From now on you will be
catching men alive.
5:11 他们把两只船靠了岸，就撇下一切，跟从了耶稣。
And when they had brought the boats to the land, they left all and followed Him.
5:12 有一次，耶稣在一个城里，看哪，有一个满身患痲疯的人看见耶稣，就面伏于地，求祂说，主阿，你若肯，必能叫我洁净了。
And while He was in one of the cities, behold, there was a man full of leprosy. And when he saw Jesus, he fell on his face and begged Him, saying, Lord, if You
are willing, You can cleanse me.
5:13 耶稣伸手摸他，说，我肯，你洁净了吧。痲疯就立刻离开了他。
And stretching out His hand, He touched him, saying, I am willing; be cleansed! And immediately the leprosy left him.
5:14 耶稣嘱咐他说，你不可告诉人，只要去把身体给祭司察看，又要为你得了洁净，照摩西所规定的，献上礼物，对他们作证据。
And He charged him to tell no one: But go away, show yourself to the priest, and offer the gift for your cleansing, even as Moses directed, for a testimony to them.
5:15 但关于耶稣的话越发传扬出去，有好多群众来在一起，要听祂的话，也要他们的疾病得医治。
But the word concerning Him spread abroad all the more, and great crowds came together to hear Him and to be healed from their infirmities.
5:16 耶稣却退到旷野去祷告。
But He Himself often withdrew in the wilderness and prayed.
5:17 有一天耶稣正在施教，有法利赛人和律法教师也在座，他们是从加利利和犹太各乡村并耶路撒冷来的。主的能力与耶稣同在，使祂能医治病人。
And on one of the days He was teaching, and there were Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting there, who had come out of every village of Galilee and Judea
and Jerusalem. And the power of the Lord was with Him to heal.
5:18 看哪，人用卧榻抬着一个瘫痪的人，想要抬进去，放在耶稣面前。
And behold, some men brought on a bed a man who was paralyzed, and they sought a way to carry him in and lay him before Him.
5:19 因为人多，找不到办法抬进去，就上了房顶，从瓦间把他连卧榻缒到当中，正在耶稣面前。
And since they could not find by what way they might carry him in because of the crowd, they went up onto the housetop and let him down with the cot through
the tiles into the midst, in front of Jesus.
5:20 耶稣见他们的信心，就说，人哪，你的罪赦了。
And seeing their faith, He said, Man, your sins are forgiven you.
5:21 经学家和法利赛人就议论说，这说僭妄话的是谁？除了神一位以外，谁能赦罪？
And the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who is this who speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins except God alone?
5:22 耶稣深知他们所议论的，就对他们说，你们心里为什么议论？
But Jesus, knowing fully their reasonings, answered and said to them, Why are you reasoning in your hearts?
5:23 说，你的罪赦了，或说，你起来行走，哪一样更容易？
Which is easier: to say, Your sins are forgiven you, or to say, Rise and walk?
5:24 但要叫你们知道人子在地上有赦罪的权柄─就对瘫子说，我吩咐你起来，拿你的小卧榻回家去吧！
But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on the earth to forgive sins -- He said to the one paralyzed, To you I say, Rise and take up your cot and
go to your house.
967
5:25 那人当着众人面前立刻起来，拿着所躺卧的卧榻回家去，荣耀神。
And he rose up at once before them and took up that upon which he was lying and went away to his house, glorifying God.
5:26 众人都惊奇，并荣耀神，且满了敬畏，说，我们今天看见非常的事了。
And astonishment took hold of all, and they glorified God and were filled with fear, saying, We have seen extraordinary things today.
5:27 这事以后，耶稣出去，看见一个税吏，名叫利未，坐在税关上，就对他说，跟从我。
And after these things He went out and beheld a tax collector named Levi sitting at the tax office, and He said to him, Follow Me.
5:28 他就撇下一切，起来跟从了耶稣。
And leaving all, he rose up and followed Him.
5:29 利未在自己家里，为耶稣大摆筵席，有许多税吏和别人，与他们一同坐席。
And Levi gave a great reception for Him in his house; and there was a great crowd of tax collectors and others who were reclining at table with them.
5:30 法利赛人和他们的经学家就向耶稣的门徒发怨言，说，你们为什么和税吏并罪人一同吃喝？
And the Pharisees and their scribes murmured at His disciples, saying, Why do you eat and drink with the tax collectors and sinners?
5:31 耶稣回答他们说，健康的人用不着医生，有病的人才用得着；
And Jesus answered and said to them, Those who are healthy have no need of a physician, but those who are ill;
5:32 我来本不是召义人，乃是召罪人悔改。
I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.
5:33 他们说，约翰的门徒常常禁食祈求，法利赛人的门徒也是这样，惟独你的门徒又吃又喝。
And they said to Him, The disciples of John fast often and make petitions, likewise also those of the Pharisees, but Yours eat and drink.
5:34 耶稣对他们说，新郎和伴友同在的时候，岂能叫伴友禁食？
And Jesus said to them, You cannot make the sons of the bridechamber fast while the bridegroom is with them, can you?
5:35 但日子将到，新郎要从他们中间被取去，那些日子他们就要禁食了。
But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them; then they will fast in those days.
5:36 耶稣又对他们讲一个比喻：没有人把新衣服撕下一块作补丁，补在旧衣服上；不然，就把新的撕破了，并且那从新的撕下来的补丁，和旧的也不相称。
And He also spoke a parable to them: No one tears a patch from a new garment and puts it on an old garment; otherwise, he will tear the new garment, and
also the patch from the new will not match the old.
5:37 也没有人把新酒装在旧皮袋里；不然，新酒会将皮袋胀裂，酒泻出来，皮袋也就坏了。
And no one puts new wine into old wineskins; otherwise, the new wine will burst the wineskins, and it will be poured out and the wineskins will be ruined;
5:38 但新酒必须装在新皮袋里。
But new wine must be put into fresh wineskins.
5:39 没有人喝了陈酒，还想喝新的，他总说陈的好。
And no one who has drunk the old desires the new, for he says, The old is better.
路加福音 Luke 第 6 章
6:1 有一个安息日，耶稣从麦地经过，祂的门徒掐了麦穗，用手搓着吃。
And one Sabbath He was going through the grainfields, and His disciples were picking and eating the ears of grain, rubbing them in their hands.
6:2 有几个法利赛人说，你们为什么作安息日不可作的事？
And some of the Pharisees said, Why are you doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath?
6:3 耶稣回答他们说，大卫和跟从他的人饥饿之时所作的，连这个你们也没有念过么？
And Jesus answered them and said, Have you not even read this that David did when he became hungry, he and those who were with him;
6:4 他怎样进了神的殿，且拿祭司以外，别人都不可吃的陈设饼吃，又给跟从他的人吃。
How he entered into the house of God, and taking the bread of the presence, he ate it and gave some to those with him, which is not lawful for anyone to eat
except the priests alone?
6:5 祂又对他们说，人子是安息日的主。
And He said to them, The Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.
6:6 在另一个安息日，耶稣进了会堂施教。在那里有一个人，右手枯干了。
And on another Sabbath He entered into the synagogue and taught. And there was a man there, and his right hand was withered.
6:7 经学家和法利赛人窥探耶稣，在安息日要不要治病，好得把柄控告祂。
And the scribes and the Pharisees were watching Him closely to see if He would heal on the Sabbath, so that they might find reason to accuse Him.
6:8 耶稣知道他们的意念，就对那枯干手的人说，起来，站在当中。那人就起来站着。
But He knew their reasonings and said to the man who had the withered hand, Rise and stand in the midst. And he rose up and stood.
6:9 耶稣对他们说，我问你们，在安息日行善作恶，救命毁命，那样是可以的？
And Jesus said to them, I ask you, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil, to save a life or to destroy it?
6:10 祂就环视他们众人，对那人说，伸出手来。他一伸，手就复了原。
And looking around at all of them, He said to him, Stretch out your hand. And he did, and his hand was restored.
6:11 他们就满心大怒，彼此讨论怎样处治耶稣。
But they were filled with rage and discussed with one another what they might do to Jesus.
6:12 那些日子，耶稣出去上山祷告，整夜祷告神。
And in these days He went out to the mountain to pray, and He spent the whole night in prayer to God.
6:13 到了天亮，祂就叫门徒来，从他们中间挑选十二个人，称他们为使徒，
And when it became day, He called His disciples to Him, and He chose from them twelve, whom He also named apostles:
6:14 就是西门，耶稣又给他起名叫彼得，还有他的兄弟安得烈，又有雅各和约翰，腓力和巴多罗买，
Simon, whom He also named Peter, and Andrew his brother and James and John and Philip and Bartholomew
6:15 马太和多马，亚勒腓的儿子雅各，和称为热烈派的西门，
And Matthew and Thomas and James the son of Alphaeus and Simon, who was called Zealot,
968
6:16 雅各的兄弟犹大，和以后出卖主的加略人犹大。
And Judas the brother of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became the traitor.
6:17 耶稣同他们下来，站在一块平地上，有许多门徒，又有一大群百姓，从犹太全地，和耶路撒冷，并推罗、西顿的海边来，都要听祂，并要他们的疾病
得医治；
And He came down with them and stood on a level place; and there was a great crowd of His disciples, and a great multitude of people from all Judea and
Jerusalem and the seacoast of Tyre and Sidon, who had come to hear Him and to be healed of their diseases.
6:18 还有被污灵缠磨的，也得了医治。
And those who were troubled by unclean spirits were healed.
6:19 群众都想要摸祂，因为有能力从祂身上发出来，医治了众人。
And all the crowd sought to touch Him, because power was going out from Him and healing all.
6:20 耶稣举目看着门徒说，贫穷的人有福了，因为神的国是你们的。
And He lifted up His eyes to His disciples and said, Blessed are the poor, for yours is the kingdom of God.
6:21 现今饥饿的人有福了，因为你们将要饱足。现今哀哭的人有福了，因为你们将要喜笑。
Blessed are those who hunger now, for you shall be satisfied. Blessed are those who weep now, for you shall laugh.
6:22 人为人子的缘故，恨恶你们，隔绝你们，辱骂你们，弃掉你们的名，以为是恶，你们就有福了。
Blessed are you when men hate you and when they separate you from them and reproach you and cast out your name as evil, for the Son of Man's sake.
6:23 当那日你们要欢喜跳跃，因为看哪，你们在天上的赏赐是大的，原来他们的祖宗待申言者也是这样。
Rejoice in that day and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven; for so their fathers did to the prophets.
6:24 但你们富足的人有祸了，因为你们充分的受了你们的安慰。
But woe to you who are rich, for you have received your consolation in full.
6:25 你们现今饱足的人有祸了，因为你们将要饥饿。你们现今喜笑的人有祸了，因为你们将要哀恸哭泣。
Woe to you who are satiated now, for you shall hunger. Woe to you who are laughing now, for you shall mourn and weep.
6:26 人都说你们好的时候，你们就有祸了，因为他们的祖宗待假申言者也是这样。
Woe to you when all men speak well of you, for so their fathers did to the false prophets.
6:27 只是我告诉你们这听见的人，要爱你们的仇敌，善待恨你们的人。
But to you who hear I say, Love your enemies; do well to those who hate you;
6:28 要为那咒诅你们的祝福，为那凌辱你们的祷告。
Bless those who curse you; pray for those who revile you.
6:29 有人打你的脸，连另一面也给他打。有人夺你的外衣，连里衣也不要拦阻他拿去。
To him who beats you on the cheek, offer the other also; and from him who takes away your cloak, do not withhold your tunic either.
6:30 凡求你的，就给他；有人夺你的东西去，不用再要回来。
To everyone who asks of you, give; and from him who takes away your things, do not require their return.
6:31 你们愿意人怎样待你们，你们也要怎样待人。
And just as you want men to do to you, do to them likewise.
6:32 你们若爱那爱你们的人，有什么可酬谢的？因为连罪人也爱那爱他们的人。
And if you love those who love you, what thanks is it to you? For even sinners love those who love them.
6:33 你们若善待那善待你们的人，有什么可酬谢的？就是罪人也这样行。
For if you also do good to those who do good to you, what thanks is it to you? Even sinners do the same.
6:34 你们若借给人，指望从他收回，有什么可酬谢的？就是罪人也借给罪人，要如数收回。
And if you lend to those from whom you hope to receive, what thanks is it to you? Even sinners lend to sinners that they may get back the equal amount.
6:35 但你们要爱你们的仇敌，也要善待他们；并且要借给人，不指望偿还；你们的赏赐就必大了，你们且要成为至高者的儿子，因为祂恩待那忘恩的和作
恶的。
But love your enemies, and do good and lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High; for He is kind to
the unthankful and evil.
6:36 你们要有怜恤，正如你们的父有怜恤一样。
Be full of compassion, even as your Father also is full of compassion.
6:37 你们不要审判，就绝不会受审判；你们不要定罪，就绝不会被定罪；你们要赦免人，就必蒙赦免。
And do not judge, and you shall by no means be judged; and do not condemn, and you shall by no means be condemned; release, and you will be released;
6:38 你们要给人，就必有给你们的，用十足的量器，连摇带按，上尖下流的倒在你们怀里；因为你们用什么量器量给人，也必用什么量器量给你们。
Give, and it will be given to you; a good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over, they will give into your bosom. For with what measure you
measure, it shall be measured to you in return.
6:39 耶稣又对他们说一个比喻：瞎子岂能领瞎子？两个不是都要掉在坑里么？
And He also spoke a parable to them: A blind man cannot guide a blind man, can he? Will not both fall into a pit?
6:40 门徒并不高过老师，凡学成的，就会像他的老师一样。
A disciple is not above the teacher, but everyone who has been perfected will be like his teacher.
6:41 为什么看见你弟兄眼中的刺，却不想到自己眼中的梁木？
And why do you look at the splinter which is in your brother's eye, but the beam which is in your own eye you do not consider?
6:42 你看不见自己眼中的梁木，怎能对你弟兄说，弟兄，让我去掉你眼中的刺？你这假冒为善的人，先从你的眼中去掉梁木，然后你才看得清楚，去掉你
弟兄眼中的刺。
How can you say to your brother, Brother, let me remove the splinter which is in your eye, you yourself not seeing the beam which is in your eye? Hypocrite, first
remove the beam from your eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the splinter which is in your brother's eye.
6:43 因为没有好树结坏果子，也没有坏树结好果子。
For there is no good tree that produces corrupt fruit, nor again a corrupt tree that produces good fruit.
6:44 每一棵树都是凭自己的果子认出来的。人不是从荆棘收取无花果，也不是从蒺藜收采葡萄。
For each tree is known by its own fruit. For men do not collect figs from thorns, nor do they pick grapes from a thornbush.
6:45 善人从他心里所存的善，发出善来；恶人从他心里所存的恶，发出恶来；因为心里所充满的，口里就说出来。
969
The good man, out of the good treasure of his heart, brings forth that which is good, and the evil man, out of the evil treasure of his heart, brings forth that which
is evil; for out of the abundance of his heart his mouth speaks.
6:46 你们为什么称呼我主阿，主阿，却不实行我所说的？
And why do you call Me, Lord, Lord, and do not do the things that I say?
6:47 凡到我这里来，听见我的话就实行的，我要指示你们，他像什么人。
Everyone who comes to Me and hears My words and does them, I will show you whom he is like.
6:48 他像一个人盖造房子，开掘深挖，把根基安在磐石上。到了洪水泛滥的时候，河流冲击那房子，也不能摇动它，因为盖造得好。
He is like a man building a house, who dug and went deep and laid a foundation on the rock. And when a flood came, the river broke out against that house, yet
it was not strong enough to shake it, because it had been built well.
6:49 惟有听见不实行的，就像一个人在土地上盖造房子，没有根基，河流一冲，那房子立刻倒塌了，并且崩毁得很大。
But he who hears and does not do is like a man who built a house upon the earth without a foundation, against which the river broke out, and immediately it
collapsed, and the crash of that house was great.
路加福音 Luke 第 7 章
7:1 耶稣对百姓讲完了这一切的话，就进了迦百农。
After He completed all His words in the hearing of the people, He entered into Capernaum.
7:2 有一个百夫长所宝贵的奴仆，患病快要死了。
And a certain centurion's slave, who was highly valued by him, was ill and about to die.
7:3 百夫长听见耶稣的事，就打发犹太人的几个长老到耶稣那里，求耶稣来全然拯救他的奴仆。
And when he heard about Jesus, he sent to Him some elders of the Jews, requesting that He would come and completely heal his slave.
7:4 他们到了耶稣那里，就切切的求祂说，你给他行这事，是他所配的；
And when they came to Jesus, they entreated Him earnestly, saying, He is worthy of Your granting this to him,
7:5 因为他爱我们的人民，给我们建造会堂。
For he loves our nation, and he himself built the synagogue for us.
7:6 耶稣就和他们同去。离那家不远，百夫长差了几个朋友去对耶稣说，主阿，不用烦扰了，因为我不配你到舍下来。
And Jesus went with them. But already, when He was not far from the house, the centurion sent friends, saying to Him, Lord, do not trouble Yourself, for I am not
fit for You to enter under my roof;
7:7 我也自以为不配去见你，只要你说一句话，我的仆人就必得医治。
Therefore, I did not count even myself worthy to come to You. But speak a word, and let my servant be healed.
7:8 因为我也是一个被派在权柄之下的人，有兵在我以下；我对这个说，去，他就去；对那个说，来，他就来；对我的奴仆说，作这事，他就作。
For I also am a man set under authority, having soldiers under me. And I say to this one, Go, and he goes; and to another, Come, and he comes; and to my slave,
Do this, and he does it.
7:9 耶稣听见这话，就希奇他，转身对跟随的群众说，我告诉你们，这样大的信心，就是在以色列中，我也没有遇见过。
And when Jesus heard these things, He marveled at him, and turning to the crowd following Him, He said, I say to you, Not even in Israel have I found such great
faith.
7:10 那些受差的人回到家里，看见奴仆已经康复了。
And when those who had been sent returned to the house, they found the slave in good health.
7:11 过了不久，耶稣往一座城去，这城名叫拿因，祂的门徒和大批的群众与祂同行。
And soon afterward He went into a city called Nain, and His disciples went with Him, as well as a large crowd.
7:12 将近城门的时候，看哪，有一个死人被抬出来，这人是他母亲独生的儿子，他母亲又是寡妇，有城里大批的群众陪着她。
And as He came near the gate of the city, behold, one who had died was being carried out, an only son of his mother, and she was a widow; and a considerable
crowd from the city was with her.
7:13 主看见那寡妇，就对她动了慈心，说，不要哭。
And when the Lord saw her, He was moved with compassion for her and said to her, Do not weep.
7:14 于是上前按着棺杠，抬的人就站住了。耶稣说，青年人，我吩咐你，起来。
And He came near and touched the bier, and those carrying it stood still. And He said, Young man, to you I say, Arise.
7:15 那死人就坐起来，并且说起话来，耶稣便把他交给他母亲。
And the dead man sat up and began to speak. And He gave him to his mother.
7:16 众人都起了敬畏，荣耀神说，有大申言者在我们中间兴起来了，又说，神眷顾祂的百姓了。
And fear took hold of all, and they glorified God, saying, A great prophet has been raised up among us, and, God has visited His people!
7:17 这关于耶稣的话，就传遍了整个犹太和四周全境。
And this report concerning Him went out in the whole of Judea and in all the surrounding region.
7:18 约翰的门徒把这一切的事都报告约翰。
And John's disciples reported to him concerning all these things.
7:19 他便叫了两个门徒来，打发他们到主那里去，说，那要来者是你么？还是我们该期待别人？
And John called a certain two of his disciples to him and sent them to the Lord, saying, Are You the Coming One, or should we expect another?
7:20 那两个人来到耶稣那里，说，施浸者约翰打发我们来问你，那要来者是你么？还是我们该期待别人？
And the men came to Him and said, John the Baptist sent us to You, saying, Are You the Coming One, or should we expect another?
7:21 在那时候，耶稣治好了许多有疾病的、受灾患的、和被恶灵附着的，又施恩叫好些瞎子能看见。
In that hour He healed many from diseases and afflictions and evil spirits, and to many who were blind He graciously gave sight.
7:22 耶稣回答他们说，你们去，把所见所闻的报告约翰，就是瞎子看见，瘸子行走，患痲疯的得洁净，聋子听见，死人复活，穷人有福音传给他们。
And He answered and said to them, Go and report to John what you have seen and heard: the blind receive their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed
and the deaf hear, the dead are raised, the poor have the gospel announced to them.
7:23 凡不因我绊跌的，就有福了。
970
And blessed is he who is not stumbled because of Me.
7:24 约翰所差来的人走了，耶稣就对群众讲论约翰说，你们从前出到旷野，要看什么？被风吹动的芦苇么？
And when the messengers of John went away, He began to say to the crowds concerning John, What did you go out into the wilderness to look at? A reed
shaken by the wind?
7:25 你们出去，到底要看什么？穿着细软衣服的人么？看哪，那穿华丽衣服，奢华度日的人，是在王宫里。
But what did you go out to see? A man arrayed in soft garments? Behold, those who live in splendid apparel and luxury are in royal palaces.
7:26 你们出去，究竟要看什么？申言者么？我告诉你们，是的，他比申言者大多了。
But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I say to you, and much more than a prophet.
7:27 这人就是经上所记的，“看哪，我在你面前差遣我的使者，他要在你前面预备你的道路。”
This is he concerning whom it is written, "Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, who will prepare Your way before You.''
7:28 我告诉你们，妇人所生的人中，没有一个大过约翰的；然而在神的国里最小的比他还大。
I say to you, Among those born of women there is no one greater than John, yet he who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.
7:29 众百姓和税吏，既受过约翰的浸，听见这话，就称神为义。
And when all the people and the tax collectors heard this, they acknowledged that God was righteous, since they had been baptized with the baptism of John.
7:30 但法利赛人和律法师，没有受过约翰的浸，竟为自己废弃了神的旨意。
But the Pharisees and the lawyers rejected the counsel of God for themselves since they had not been baptized by him.
7:31 耶稣又说，这样，我可把这世代的人比作什么？他们好像什么？
And Jesus said, To what then shall I liken the men of this generation, and what are they like?
7:32 他们好像孩童坐在市场上，彼此呼叫说，我们向你们吹笛，你们不跳舞；我们哀歌，你们不哭泣。
They are like little children sitting in the marketplace and calling to one another, who say, We have played the flute to you, and you did not dance; we have sung
a dirge, and you did not weep.
7:33 施浸者约翰来了，不吃饼，也不喝酒，你们就说，他有鬼附着。
For John the Baptist has come neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say, He has a demon.
7:34 人子来了，也吃也喝，你们又说，看哪，一个贪食好酒的人，一个税吏和罪人的朋友。
The Son of Man has come eating and drinking, and you say, Behold, a gluttonous man and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners.
7:35 但智慧从她所有的儿女得称为义。
Yet wisdom is justified by all her children.
7:36 有一个法利赛人，请耶稣同他吃饭，耶稣就到那法利赛人家里坐席。
Now a certain one of the Pharisees asked Him to eat with him. And He entered into the Pharisee's house and reclined at table.
7:37 看哪，那城里有一个女人，是个罪人，知道耶稣在法利赛人家里坐席，就拿着一玉瓶的香膏，
And behold, there was a woman in the city who was a sinner, and when she learned that He was reclining at table in the Pharisee's house, she brought an
alabaster flask of ointment.
7:38 站在耶稣背后，挨着祂的脚哭，用眼泪湿了耶稣的脚，又用自己的头发擦干，还热切的亲祂的脚，并且把香膏抹上。
And she stood behind Him at His feet weeping and began to wet His feet with her tears and wiped them with the hair of her head, and she kissed His feet
affectionately and anointed them with the ointment.
7:39 请耶稣的法利赛人看见了，就心里说，这人若是申言者，必知道摸祂的是谁，是个怎样的女人，因为她乃是个罪人。
But when the Pharisee who had invited Him saw this, he said within himself, This man, if He were a prophet, would know who and what sort of woman this is
who is touching Him, because she is a sinner.
7:40 耶稣回答他说，西门，我有话要对你说。他说，夫子，请说。
And Jesus answered and said to him, Simon, I have something to say to you. And he said, Teacher, say it.
7:41 耶稣说，一个债主有两个债户，一个欠五百银币，另一个欠五十银币。
A certain moneylender had two debtors: one owed five hundred denarii and the other fifty.
7:42 因为他们没有什么可偿还的，债主就把两个都恩免了。这样，他们那一个更爱他？
But since they had nothing with which to repay, he graciously forgave them both. Which of them therefore will love him more?
7:43 西门回答说，我想是那多得恩免的。耶稣对他说，你断得不错。
Simon answered and said, I suppose the one whom he graciously forgave the more. And He said to him, You have judged correctly.
7:44 于是转过身来向着那女人，对西门说，你看见这女人么？我进了你的家，你没有给我水洗脚，但她用眼泪湿了我的脚，又用自己的头发擦干。
And turning to the woman, He said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I entered into your house; you did not give Me water for My feet, but she, with her tears,
has wet My feet and with her hair has wiped them.
7:45 你没有与我亲嘴，但她从我进来的时候，就不住热切的亲我的脚。
You did not give Me a kiss, but she, from the time I entered, has not stopped kissing My feet affectionately.
7:46 你没有用油抹我的头，但她用香膏抹我的脚。
You did not anoint My head with oil, but she has anointed My feet with ointment.
7:47 所以我告诉你，她许多的罪都赦免了，因为她爱得多；但那赦免少的，他爱得就少。
For this reason I say to you, Her sins which are many are forgiven, because she loved much; but to whom little is forgiven, he loves little.
7:48 于是对那女人说，你的罪赦了。
And He said to her, Your sins are forgiven.
7:49 同席的人心里说，这人是谁，竟然赦罪？
And those who were reclining at table with Him began to say within themselves, Who is this who even forgives sins?
7:50 但耶稣对那女人说，你的信救了你，平平安安的走吧！
But He said to the woman, Your faith has saved you. Go in peace.
路加福音 Luke 第 8 章
8:1 不久以后，耶稣周游各城各乡传道，传神的国为福音；同祂在一起的有十二个门徒，
971
And soon afterward He journeyed from city to city and village to village, preaching and announcing the gospel of the kingdom of God; and the twelve were with
Him,
8:2 还有几个得医治，脱离恶灵和疾病的妇女，其中有称为抹大拉人的马利亚，曾有七个鬼从她身上赶出来；
As well as certain women who were healed of evil spirits and infirmities: Mary, who was called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out,
8:3 又有希律的管事苦撒的妻子约亚拿，并苏撒拿，和好些别的妇女，都是用自己的财物供给耶稣和门徒。
And Joanna, the wife of Chuza, Herod's steward, and Susanna, and many other women, who ministered to them out of their possessions.
8:4 当大批的群众聚在一起，又有人从各城络绎的出去，到耶稣那里的时候，祂就用比喻说，
And while a great crowd was coming together and those from city to city were journeying to Him, He spoke by way of a parable:
8:5 那撒种的出去撒他的种子。撒的时候，有的落在路旁，被人践踏，天空的飞鸟又来吃尽了。
The sower went out to sow his seed. And as he sowed, some seed fell beside the way, and it was trampled underfoot, and the birds of heaven devoured it.
8:6 又有别的落在磐石上，生长起来，因为得不着滋润，就枯干了。
And other seed fell on the rock, and as it grew, it withered because it had no moisture.
8:7 还有别的落在荆棘里，荆棘一同生长，就把它挤住了。
And other seed fell in the midst of the thorns, and the thorns grew with it and choked it off.
8:8 但有别的落在好土里，生长起来，结实百倍。耶稣说了这些话，就大声说，有耳可听的，就应当听。
And other seed fell into the good earth, and when it grew, it produced fruit a hundredfold. When He had said these things, He called out, He who has ears to
hear, let him hear.
8:9 门徒问祂这比喻是什么意思。
And His disciples questioned Him as to what this parable might be.
8:10 祂说，神国的奥秘，只给你们知道。但对其余的人就用比喻，叫他们看却看不见，听也不领悟。
And He said, To you it has been given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to the rest they are in parables, in order that seeing they may not see,
and hearing they may not understand.
8:11 这比喻乃是这样：种子就是神的道。
Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God.
8:12 那些在路旁的，就是人听了道，随后魔鬼来，从他们心里把道夺去，恐怕他们信了得救。
And those beside the way are those who heard; then the devil comes and takes away the word from their heart, so that they would not believe and be saved.
8:13 那些在磐石上的，就是人听了道，欢喜领受，但没有根，不过是暂时信了，在试炼的时候，就退后了。
And those on the rock are those who, when they hear, receive the word with joy; yet these have no root, who believe only for a while, and in time of trial they
draw back.
8:14 那落在荆棘里的，就是人听了道，走开以后，被今生的思虑、钱财和宴乐全然挤住了，便结不出成熟的子粒来。
And that which fell into the thorns, these are those who heard and, going away, are utterly choked by anxieties and riches and pleasures of this life, and do not
bring any fruit to maturity.
8:15 但那落在好土里的，就是人用美好善良的心听了道，便持守住，并且忍耐着结实。
But that which is in the good earth, these are those who in a noble and good heart hear the word and hold it fast and bear fruit with endurance.
8:16 没有人点灯用器皿盖上，或放在床底下，乃是放在灯台上，叫进来的人看见亮光。
Now no one who has lit a lamp covers it with a vessel or puts it underneath a bed, but he puts it on a lampstand in order that those who come in may see the
light.
8:17 因为隐藏的事没有不成为显明的，隐瞒的事也绝没有不被人知道而暴露出来的。
For nothing is hidden which shall not become manifest, nor concealed which shall not by all means be made known and come into the open.
8:18 所以你们要留心怎样听；因为凡有的，还要加给他；凡没有的，连他自以为有的，也要从他夺去。
Take heed therefore how you hear, for whoever has, it shall be given to him, and whoever does not have, even what he thinks he has shall be taken away from
him.
8:19 耶稣的母亲和兄弟来了，因为人多，不能与祂相会。
And His mother and brothers came up to Him and were not able to get to Him because of the crowd.
8:20 有人报告祂说，你的母亲和兄弟站在外面，想要见你。
And it was reported to Him, Your mother and Your brothers are standing outside wanting to see You.
8:21 祂却回答他们说，这些听了神的话而实行的人，就是我的母亲，我的弟兄了。
But He answered and said to them, My mother and My brothers are these who hear the word of God and do it.
8:22 有一天，耶稣和门徒上了船，祂对他们说，我们渡到湖的对岸去吧。他们就开了船。
And on one of the days He and His disciples got into a boat. And He said to them, Let us go over to the other side of the lake. And they launched out.
8:23 正航行的时候，耶稣睡着了。湖上起了风暴，船就要满了水，甚是危险。
And while they were sailing, He fell asleep. And a windstorm came down upon the lake, and they began to fill with water and were in danger.
8:24 门徒进前来，叫醒了祂，说，夫子，夫子，我们丧命啦！耶稣醒来，斥责风和水上的大浪，风浪就止住，平静了。
And they came to Him and woke Him, saying, Master, Master, we are perishing! And being awakened, He rebuked the wind and the surging of the water, and
they ceased, and there was a calm.
8:25 耶稣对他们说，你们的信心在那里？他们既惧怕，又希奇，彼此说，这人到底是谁？祂竟吩咐风和水，连风和水也听从了祂。
And He said to them, Where is your faith? And they became frightened and marveled, saying to one another, Who then is this, that He orders even the winds and
the water, and they obey Him?
8:26 他们到了格拉森人的地方，就是加利利的对面。
And they sailed down to the region of the Gerasenes, which is across from Galilee.
8:27 耶稣一上岸，就有一个鬼附的人，从城里出来迎着祂。这人已经许久不穿衣服，不住房子，只住在坟茔间。
And when He went out onto the land, a certain man out of the city, who had demons, met Him, and for a considerable time he had not put on clothes and did
not remain in a house but among the tombs.
8:28 他看见耶稣，就喊叫起来，俯伏在祂面前，大声说，至高神的儿子耶稣，我与你何干？求你不要叫我受苦。
And when he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell before Him and said in a loud voice, What do I have to do with You, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I beseech
You, do not torment me.
972
8:29 因耶稣曾吩咐污灵从那人身上出来；原来这鬼屡次抓住他，他常被人看守，又被铁链和脚镣捆锁，他竟把锁炼挣断，被鬼催逼到旷野去。
For He had charged the unclean spirit to come out from the man; for many times it had seized him and he had been bound with chains and shackles and was
kept under watch, yet every time he tore the bonds apart and was driven by the demon into the wilderness.
8:30 耶稣问他说，你名叫什么？他说，我名叫群，因为有许多鬼进入他里面。
And Jesus questioned him, What is your name? And he said, Legion, because many demons had entered into him.
8:31 鬼就央求耶稣，不要吩咐它们到无底坑里去。
And they entreated Him not to order them to depart into the abyss.
8:32 那里有一大群猪正在山上吃食。鬼就央求耶稣，准它们进入猪群，祂便准了它们。
Now there was a herd of many hogs feeding there on the mountain. And they entreated Him to permit them to enter into them, and He gave them permission.
8:33 鬼就从那人出来，进入猪里去；于是那群猪闯下山崖，投入湖里淹死了。
And the demons came out from the man and entered into the hogs, and the herd rushed down the steep slope into the lake and was drowned.
8:34 放猪的看见所发生的事，就逃跑了，去告诉城里和乡下的人。
And when those who were feeding them saw what had happened, they fled and reported it in the city and in the countryside.
8:35 众人出来，要看所发生的事。到了耶稣那里，看见鬼所离开的那人，坐在耶稣脚前，身穿衣服，神志清醒，他们就害怕。
And the people went out to see what had happened. And they came to Jesus and found the man from whom the demons had come out, sitting at the feet of
Jesus, clothed and sane, and they became frightened.
8:36 看见这事的，便将鬼附的人怎样得了拯救，都报告他们。
And those who had seen it reported to them how the demon possessed man had been healed.
8:37 格拉森四周全境的人，因为极其害怕，都求耶稣离开他们，耶稣就上船回去了。
And all the multitude from the surrounding region of the Gerasenes asked Him to depart from them, for they were seized with great fear; and He got into a boat
and returned.
8:38 鬼所离开的那人求耶稣，要和祂同在，耶稣却打发他走，说，
And the man from whom the demons had come out begged to be with Him, but He sent him away, saying,
8:39 你回家去，述说神为你作了何等大的事。他就去，满城传扬耶稣为他作了何等大的事。
Return to your house, and relate what great things God has done for you. And he departed, proclaiming throughout the whole city what great things Jesus had
done for him.
8:40 耶稣回来的时候，群众欢迎祂，因为他们都期待着祂。
Now as Jesus was returning, the crowd welcomed Him, for they were all waiting for Him.
8:41 看哪，有一个管会堂的，名叫睚鲁，来俯伏在耶稣脚前，求耶稣进他的家；
And behold, a man came whose name was Jairus, and this man was a ruler of the synagogue. And he fell at Jesus' feet and entreated Him to enter into his
house,
8:42 因他有一个独生女儿，约十二岁，快要死了。耶稣去的时候，群众拥挤祂。
Because he had an only daughter, about twelve years old, and she was dying. And as He went, the crowds pressed against Him.
8:43 有一个女人，患了十二年血漏，在医生手里花尽了一切养生的，并没有一人能治好她。
And a woman who had a flow of blood for twelve years and who had spent all her livelihood on physicians and yet could not be healed by anyone,
8:44 她来到耶稣背后，摸祂的衣服穗子，血漏立刻就止住了。
Approached Him from behind and touched the fringe of His garment, and instantly her flow of blood stopped.
8:45 耶稣说，摸我的是谁？众人都不承认。彼得说，夫子，群众都围着你，拥挤你。
And Jesus said, Who is the one who touched Me? And when all denied it, Peter said, Master, the crowds are pressing and crushing You.
8:46 耶稣说，总有人摸我，因我觉得有能力从我身上出去。
But Jesus said, Someone touched Me, for I perceived that power had gone out from Me.
8:47 那女人知道不能隐藏，就战战兢兢的来俯伏在耶稣跟前，把摸祂的缘故，和怎样立刻得了医治，当着众百姓都说出来。
And when the woman saw that she had not escaped notice, she came trembling and fell down before Him and declared before all the people the reason why
she had touched Him and how she had been instantly healed.
8:48 耶稣就对她说，女儿，你的信救了你，平平安安的走吧！
And He said to her, Daughter, your faith has healed you. Go in peace.
8:49 耶稣还说话的时候，有人从管会堂的家里来，说，你的女儿死了，不必再烦扰夫子了。
While He was still speaking, someone came from the house of the ruler of the synagogue, saying, Your daughter has died; do not trouble the Teacher any longer.
8:50 耶稣听见，就对他说，不要怕，只要信，你的女儿就必得拯救。
But Jesus, hearing it, answered him, Do not be afraid -- only believe, and she will be healed.
8:51 耶稣到了他的家，除了彼得、约翰、雅各和女孩的父母，不许别人同祂进去。
And He came to the house and did not allow anyone to enter with Him, except Peter and John and James and the father of the child and the mother.
8:52 众人都为这女孩哭泣捶胸。耶稣说，不要哭，她不是死了，乃是睡了。
And all were weeping and mourning for her; but He said, Do not weep, for she has not died but is sleeping.
8:53 他们明知她已经死了，就嗤笑耶稣。
And they laughed scornfully at Him, knowing that she had died.
8:54 耶稣却拉着她的手，呼叫说，女孩，起来！
But He took hold of her hand and called out, saying, Child, arise!
8:55 她的灵便回来，她就立刻起来了，耶稣吩咐给她东西吃。
And her spirit returned and she rose up instantly; and He directed that something be given to her to eat.
8:56 她的父母就都惊奇，耶稣嘱咐他们，不要把所发生的事告诉人。
And her parents were amazed, but He charged them to tell no one what had happened.
路加福音 Luke 第 9 章
973
9:1 耶稣叫齐了十二个门徒，给他们能力、权柄，制伏一切的鬼，并医治疾病。
And He called together the twelve and gave them power and authority over all the demons and to heal diseases.
9:2 又差遣他们去宣扬神的国，医治病弱的。
And He sent them to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal the sick.
9:3 对他们说，行路的时候，不要带手杖和口袋，不要带食物和银子，各人也不要有两件里衣。
And He said to them, Take nothing for the journey, neither a staff nor a bag nor bread nor money, nor have two tunics apiece.
9:4 无论进那一家，就住在那里，也从那里起行。
And into whatever house you enter, remain there and from there go out.
9:5 凡不接待你们的，你们离开那城的时候，就把脚上的尘土跺下去，作反对他们的见证。
And as many as do not receive you, as you go out from that city, shake off the dust from your feet for a testimony against them.
9:6 门徒就出去，走遍各乡，传扬福音，到处治病。
And they went out and passed through village after village, announcing the gospel and healing everywhere.
9:7 分封的王希律听见所发生的一切事，就游移不定；因为有人说，是约翰从死人中复活。
And Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was happening and was utterly perplexed, because it was said by some that John had been raised from the dead,
9:8 又有人说，是以利亚显现。还有人说，是古时的一位申言者又活了。
And by some that Elijah had appeared, and by others that a certain prophet of the ancients had risen up.
9:9 希律说，约翰我已经斩了，这却是谁，我竟听见祂这样的事？就想要见祂。
And Herod said, John I beheaded, but who is this concerning whom I hear such things? And he sought to see Him.
9:10 使徒回来，将所作的事都向耶稣述说。耶稣就带他们暗暗的退到一座城去，那城名叫伯赛大。
And when the apostles returned, they related to Him the things they had done. And taking them aside, He withdrew privately into a city called Bethsaida.
9:11 但群众知道了，就跟着祂去；耶稣便欢迎他们，对他们讲论神国的事，医治那些需要医治的人。
But the crowds found out and followed Him, and He welcomed them and spoke to them concerning the kingdom of God; and those who had need of healing He
healed.
9:12 日头快要平西，十二个门徒进前来，对祂说，请解散群众，他们好往周围乡村和农家去借宿找吃的，因为我们这里是野地。
And the day began to decline, and the twelve came and said to Him, Send the crowd away so that they may go into the surrounding villages and fields to lodge
and find provisions, because we are here in a deserted place.
9:13 耶稣说，你们给他们吃吧。他们说，我们不过有五个饼两条鱼，除非我们为这一切百姓买食物去。
But He said to them, You give them something to eat. But they said, We have no more than five loaves and two fish, unless we go and buy food for all these
people.
9:14 原来那时男人就约有五千。耶稣对门徒说，叫他们一伙一伙的坐下，每伙大约五十个人。
For there were about five thousand men. And He said to His disciples, Make them recline in groups of about fifty each.
9:15 门徒就如此行，叫众人都坐下。
And they did so and made them all recline.
9:16 耶稣拿着五个饼两条鱼，望着天祝福，擘开，递给门徒，摆在群众面前。
And He took the five loaves and the two fish and, looking up to heaven, He blessed and broke them and gave them to the disciples to set before the crowd.
9:17 众人都吃，并且吃饱了，拾起剩下的零碎，有十二篮子。
And they ate and were all satisfied. And what was left over among them was taken up, twelve handbaskets of broken pieces.
9:18 有一次，耶稣独自祷告的时候，门徒也同祂在一起。耶稣问他们说，群众说我是谁？
And as He was praying alone, the disciples were with Him, and He questioned them, saying, Who do the crowds say that I am?
9:19 他们回答说，有人说，是施浸者约翰，另有人说，是以利亚，还有人说，是古时的一位申言者又活了。
And they answered and said, John the Baptist, and others Elijah, and others that a certain prophet of the ancients has risen up.
9:20 祂对他们说，但你们说我是谁？彼得回答说，你是神的基督。
And He said to them, But you, who do you say that I am? And Peter answered and said, The Christ of God.
9:21 耶稣严正的警告并嘱咐他们，不可将这事告诉人。
But He charged them and commanded them to tell this to no one,
9:22 又说，人子必须受许多的苦，被长老、祭司长和经学家弃绝，并且被杀，第三日复活。
Saying, The Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised.
9:23 耶稣又对众人说，若有人要跟从我，就当否认己，天天背起他的十字架，并跟从我。
And He said to them all, If anyone wants to come after Me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow Me.
9:24 因为凡要救自己魂生命的，必丧失魂生命；凡为我丧失自己魂生命的，必救了魂生命。
For whoever wants to save his soul-life shall lose it; but whoever loses his soul-life for My sake, this one shall save it.
9:25 人若赚得全世界，却丧失自己，赔上自己，有什么益处？
For what is a man profited if he gains the whole world but loses or forfeits himself?
9:26 凡把我和我的话当作可耻的，人子在祂与父并圣天使的荣耀里来临的时候，也要把那人当作可耻的。
For whoever is ashamed of Me and of My words, of this one will the Son of Man be ashamed when He comes in His glory and the glory of the Father and of the
holy angels.
9:27 我实在告诉你们，站在这里的，有人还没有尝到死味，必看见神的国。
But I say to you truly, There are some of those standing here who shall by no means taste death until they see the kingdom of God.
9:28 说了这话以后，约有八天，耶稣带着彼得、约翰和雅各，上山去祷告。
And about eight days after these words, He took with Him Peter and John and James, and went up into the mountain to pray.
9:29 正祷告的时候，祂的面貌就不同了，衣服闪耀白色。
And as He prayed, the appearance of His face became different, and His garment dazzling white.
9:30 看哪，有两个人，就是摩西和以利亚，同耶稣谈话。
And behold, two men were conversing with Him, who were Moses and Elijah,
9:31 他们在荣耀里显现，谈论耶稣去世的事，就是祂在耶路撒冷将要成就的。
Who appeared in glory and spoke of His departure, which He was about to complete in Jerusalem.
974
9:32 彼得和同他在一起的都打盹瞌睡，既清醒了，就看见耶稣的荣耀，并同祂站着的那两个人。
Now Peter and those with him had been overcome with sleep, but when they had fully woken up, they saw His glory and the two men who were standing with
Him.
9:33 二人正要和耶稣分离的时候，彼得对耶稣说，夫子，我们在这里真好，可以搭三座帐棚，一座为你，一座为摩西，一座为以利亚。他却不知道所说的
是什么。
And as they were departing from Him, Peter said to Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here; and let us make three tents, one for You and one for Moses and
one for Elijah -- not knowing what he was saying.
9:34 彼得说这话的时候，有一朵云彩来遮盖他们，他们进入云彩里，就惧怕起来。
And while he said these things, a cloud appeared and overshadowed them; and they became frightened as they entered into the cloud.
9:35 有声音从云彩里出来，说，这是我的儿子，我所拣选的，你们要听祂。
And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is My Son, the Chosen One. Hear Him!
9:36 声音住了，只见耶稣一人在那里。那些日子，门徒保持缄默，所看见的事，一样也没有告诉人。
And when the voice had spoken, Jesus was found alone. And they kept silent and reported to no one in those days anything of what they had seen.
9:37 第二天，他们下了山，有大批的群众迎见耶稣。
And on the following day, when they came down from the mountain, a great crowd met Him.
9:38 看哪，群众中间有一个人喊叫说，夫子，求你看顾我的儿子，因为他是我的独生子；
And behold, a man from the crowd called out, saying, Teacher, I beg You to look upon my son, for he is my only child.
9:39 看哪，他被灵抓住，就忽然喊叫，灵又叫他抽疯，口中流沫，并且重重的伤害他，难以离开他。
And behold, a spirit takes him, and suddenly he cries out, and it throws him into convulsions with foaming; and it hardly goes away from him, all the time
crushing him.
9:40 我求过你的门徒把这灵赶出去，他们却是不能。
And I begged Your disciples to cast it out, and they could not.
9:41 耶稣说，唉，不信且悖谬的世代！我在你们这里，忍耐你们要到几时？把你的儿子带到这里来吧。
And Jesus answered and said, O unbelieving and perverted generation! How long shall I be with you and bear with you? Bring your son here.
9:42 正进前来的时候，鬼把他摔倒，叫他重重的抽疯。耶稣就斥责那污灵，医好那孩子，交还给他父亲。
And just as he was coming to Him, the demon threw him down and greatly convulsed him. But Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit and healed the child and gave
him back to his father.
9:43 众人都诧异神的威荣。耶稣所作的一切事，众人正希奇的时候，祂对门徒说，
And all were astounded at the majesty of God. And while all were marveling at all the things which He did, He said to His disciples,
9:44 你们要把这些话存在耳中，因为人子将要被交在人手里。
Put these words into your ears; for the Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men.
9:45 他们不明白这话，这话对他们是隐藏的，叫他们不能领会，他们也不敢问这话的意思。
But they did not understand this saying, and it was concealed from them so that they would not perceive it; and they were afraid to ask Him concerning this
saying.
9:46 门徒中间起了议论，谁将为大。
And reasoning came in among them as to which of them was greatest.
9:47 耶稣看出他们心中的议论，就领过一个小孩子来，叫他站在自己旁边，
And Jesus, seeing the reasoning of their heart, took hold of a little child and stood him beside Himself,
9:48 对他们说，凡因我的名接待这小孩子的，就是接待我；凡接待我的，就是接待那差我来的；你们中间最小的，他便为大。
And He said to them, Whoever receives this little child because of My name receives Me; and whoever receives Me receives Him who sent Me; for he who is least
among you all, this one is great.
9:49 约翰说，夫子，我们看见一个人在你的名里赶鬼，我们就禁止他，因为他不与我们一同跟从你。
And John answered and said, Master, we saw someone casting out demons in Your name, and we forbade him because he does not follow with us.
9:50 耶稣说，不要禁止他；因为不抵挡你们的，就是帮助你们的。
But Jesus said to him, Do not forbid him, for he who is not against you is for you.
9:51 耶稣被接上升的日子将到，祂就定意面向耶路撒冷去，
And as the days were being fulfilled for Him to be taken up, He steadfastly set His face to go to Jerusalem.
9:52 并且打发使者走在祂前面。他们就去，进了撒玛利亚的一个村庄，要为祂预备。
And He sent messengers before His face. And they went and entered into a village of the Samaritans to prepare for Him.
9:53 那里的人不接待祂，因祂面向耶路撒冷去。
And they did not receive Him, because His face was set to go to Jerusalem.
9:54 祂的门徒雅各、约翰看见了，就说，主阿，你要我们吩咐火从天上降下来，烧灭他们么？
And seeing this, the disciples James and John said, Lord, do You want us to command fire to come down from heaven and consume them?
9:55 耶稣却转身责备他们，说，你们的灵如何，你们并不知道。
But turning, He rebuked them and said, You do not know of what kind of spirit you are.
9:56 人子来不是要灭人的性命，乃是要救人的性命。他们遂往别的村庄去了。
The Son of Man has not come to destroy men's lives but to save them. And they went into another village.
9:57 他们行路的时候，有一个人对耶稣说，你无论往那里去，我都要跟从你。
And as they went along the road, someone said to Him, I will follow You wherever You go.
9:58 耶稣对他说，狐狸有洞，天空的飞鸟有窝，人子却没有枕头的地方。
And Jesus said to him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of heaven have roosts, but the Son of Man does not have a place where He may lay His head.
9:59 又对另一个人说，跟从我。那人说，主阿，准我先去埋葬我的父亲。
And He said to another, Follow Me. But he said, Lord, permit me to go first and bury my father.
9:60 耶稣说，让死人埋葬他们的死人，你只管去遍传神的国。
But He said to him, Let the dead bury their own dead, but you go and announce the kingdom of God everywhere.
9:61 又有一人说，主阿，我要跟从你，但是准我先去辞别我家里的人。
975
And another also said, I will follow You, Lord; but first permit me to say farewell to those in my house.
9:62 耶稣说，手扶着犁向后看的，没有一个适合于神的国。
But Jesus said to him, No one who puts his hand on the plow and looks behind is fit for the kingdom of God.
路加福音 Luke 第 10 章
10:1 这些事以后，主又选立另外七十个人，差遣他们两个两个的，在祂前面往自己所要到的各城各地去。
Now after these things, the Lord appointed seventy others and sent them two by two before His face into every city and place where He Himself was about to
come.
10:2 就对他们说，庄稼固多，工人却少；所以要祈求庄稼的主，催赶工人收割祂的庄稼。
And He said to them, The harvest is great, but the workers few; therefore, beseech the Lord of the harvest that He would thrust out workers into His harvest.
10:3 你们去吧；看哪，我差遣你们去，如同羊羔在狼中间。
Go; behold, I send you as lambs in the midst of wolves.
10:4 不要带钱袋，不要带口袋，不要带鞋，在路上也不要问人的安。
Do not carry a purse, nor a bag, nor sandals; and greet no one on the way.
10:5 无论进那一家，先要说，愿这一家平安。
And into whatever house you enter, first say, Peace to this house.
10:6 那里若有平安之子，你们的平安就必临到那家；不然，平安就归与你们了。
And if a son of peace is there, your peace shall rest upon it; but if not, it shall return upon you.
10:7 你们要住在那家，吃喝他们所供给的，因为作工的配得工价。不要从这家搬到那家。
And in that house remain, eating and drinking the things from them, for the worker is worthy of his wages. Do not move from house to house.
10:8 无论进那一城，人若接待你们，给你们摆上什么，你们就吃什么。
And into whatever city you enter and they receive you, eat what is set before you;
10:9 要治好其中病弱的，对他们说，神的国已经临近你们了。
And heal the sick who are in it and say to them, The kingdom of God has drawn near to you.
10:10 无论进那一城，人若不接待你们，你们就到街上去，说，
But into whatever city you enter and they do not receive you, go out into its streets and say,
10:11 就是你们城里的尘土，粘在我们的脚上，我们也当着你们擦去。虽然如此，你们该知道神的国已经临近了。
Even the dust from your city which clings to our feet, we wipe off against you; yet know this, that the kingdom of God has drawn near.
10:12 我告诉你们，在那日，所多玛所受的，比那城所受的还容易。
I say to you that it will be more tolerable for Sodom in that day than for that city.
10:13 哥拉汛哪，你有祸了！伯赛大阿，你有祸了！因为在你们中间所行的异能，若行在推罗、西顿，她们早已披麻蒙灰，坐在地上悔改了。
Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the works of power which took place in you had taken place in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented
long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes.
10:14 然而在审判的日子，推罗、西顿所受的，比你们所受的还容易。
Yet it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the judgment than for you.
10:15 还有你，迦百农阿，你已经被高举到天上，你必坠落到阴间。
And you, Capernaum, who have been exalted to heaven, to Hades you will be brought down.
10:16 又对门徒说，听从你们的，就是听从我；弃绝你们的，就是弃绝我；弃绝我的，就是弃绝那差遣我的。
He who hears you hears Me, and he who rejects you rejects Me, and he who rejects Me rejects Him who sent Me.
10:17 那七十个人欢欢喜喜的回来，说，主阿，在你的名里，就是鬼也服了我们。
And the seventy returned with joy, saying, Lord, even the demons are subject to us in Your name.
10:18 耶稣对他们说，我看见撒但从天上坠落，像闪电一样。
And He said to them, I was watching Satan fall like lightning out of heaven.
10:19 看哪，我已经给你们权柄，可以践踏蛇和蝎子，并胜过仇敌一切的能力，绝没有什么能伤害你们。
Behold, I have given you the authority to tread upon serpents and scorpions and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall by any means hurt you.
10:20 然而不要因灵服了你们就欢喜，却要因你们的名记录在诸天之上欢喜。
However do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your names are recorded in the heavens.
10:21 就在那时，耶稣在圣灵里欢腾，说，父阿，天地的主，我颂扬你，因为你将这些事，向智慧通达人藏起来，向婴孩却启示出来。父阿，是的，因为
在你眼中看为美的，本是如此。
In that hour He exulted in the Holy Spirit and said, I extol You, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because You have hidden these things from the wise and
intelligent and have revealed them to babes. Yes, Father, for thus it has been well pleasing in Your sight.
10:22 我父已将一切都交付了我；除了父，没有人认识子是谁；除了子和子所愿意启示的，也没有人认识父是谁。
All things have been delivered to Me by My Father; and no one knows who the Son is except the Father, and who the Father is except the Son and him to whom
the Son wills to reveal Him.
10:23 耶稣转身，暗暗的对门徒说，看见你们所看见的，那眼睛就有福了。
And turning to the disciples, He said privately, Blessed are the eyes which see the things that you see.
10:24 我告诉你们，曾经有许多申言者和君王，想要看你们所看的，却没有看见；要听你们所听的，却没有听见。
For I tell you that many prophets and kings have wanted to perceive the things that you see, and have not perceived them, and to hear the things that you hear,
and have not heard them.
10:25 看哪，有一个律法师站起来，试探耶稣说，夫子，我该作什么，才可以承受永远的生命？
And behold, a certain lawyer stood up and put Him to the test, saying, Teacher, what should I do to inherit eternal life?
10:26 耶稣对他说，律法上写的是什么？你是怎么念的？
And He said to him, What is written in the law? How do you read it?
10:27 他回答说，“你要全心、全魂、全力并全心思，爱主你的神；又要爱邻舍如同自己。”
976
And he answered and said, "You shall love the Lord your God from your whole heart and with your whole soul and with your whole strength and with your whole
mind, and your neighbor as yourself.''
10:28 耶稣说，你答得对，你这样行，就必得着生命。
And He said to him, You have answered correctly; do this, and you shall have life.
10:29 那人想要称义自己，就对耶稣说，谁是我的邻舍？
But he, wanting to justify himself, said to Jesus, And who is my neighbor?
10:30 耶稣接着说，有一个人从耶路撒冷下耶利哥去，落在强盗中间，他们剥去他的衣服，把他打个半死，就撇下他走了。
Jesus, taking up the question, said, A certain man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell among robbers, who having both stripped him and
beaten him, went away, leaving him half dead.
10:31 适巧有一个祭司，从这条路下来，看见他，就从对面过去了。
And by coincidence a certain priest was going down on that road; and when he saw him, he passed by on the opposite side.
10:32 又有一个利未人，来到这地方，看见，也照样从对面过去了。
And likewise also a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the opposite side.
10:33 但有一个撒玛利亚人，行路来到他那里，看见，就动了慈心，
But a certain Samaritan, who was journeying, came upon him; and when he saw him, he was moved with compassion;
10:34 上前把油和酒倒在他的伤处，包裹好了，扶他骑上自己的牲口，带到客店里照料他。
And he came to him and bound up his wounds and poured oil and wine on them. And placing him on his own beast, he brought him to an inn and took care of
him.
10:35 第二天，拿出两个银币，交给店主说，请你照料他；此外所花费的，我回来必还你。
And on the next day he took out two denarii and gave them to the innkeeper and said, Take care of him; and whatever you spend in addition to this, when I
return, I will repay you.
10:36 你想这三个人，那一个是落在强盗手中之人的邻舍？
Which of these three, does it seem to you, has become a neighbor to him who fell into the hands of the robbers?
10:37 他说，是那怜悯他的。耶稣说，你去照样行吧。
And he said, The one who showed mercy to him. And Jesus said to him, Go, and you do likewise.
10:38 他们走路的时候，耶稣进了一个村庄；有一个女人名叫马大，接待祂到家里。
Now as they went, He entered into a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha received Him into her home.
10:39 她有一个妹妹，名叫马利亚，在主脚前坐着听祂的话。
And she had a sister called Mary, who also sat at the Lord's feet and was listening to His word.
10:40 马大伺候的事多，各方忙乱，就进前来，说，主阿，我妹妹留下我独自一人伺候，你不在意么？请吩咐她同我作她分内该作的事。
But Martha was being drawn about with much serving, and she came up to Him and said, Lord, does it not matter to You that my sister has left me to serve alone?
Tell her then to do her part with me.
10:41 主回答她说，马大，马大，你为许多的事思虑烦扰；
But the Lord answered and said to her, Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things;
10:42 但是不可少的只有一件，马利亚已经选择那美好的分，是不能从她夺去的。
But there is need of one thing, for Mary has chosen the good part, which shall not be taken away from her.
路加福音 Luke 第 11 章
11:1 耶稣在一个地方祷告，祷告完了，有一个门徒对祂说，主阿，教导我们祷告，像约翰教导他的门徒一样。
And while He was in a certain place praying, when He ceased, a certain one of His disciples said to Him, Lord, teach us to pray, even as John also taught his
disciples.
11:2 耶稣说，你们祷告的时候，要说，父阿，愿你的名被尊为圣，愿你的国来临。
And He said to them, When you pray, say, Father, Your name be sanctified; Your kingdom come.
11:3 我们日用的食物，天天赐给我们；
Give us each day our daily bread.
11:4 赦免我们的罪，因为我们也赦免凡亏欠我们的人；不叫我们陷入试诱。
And forgive us our sins, for we also forgive everyone indebted to us. And do not bring us into temptation.
11:5 耶稣又说，你们中间谁有一个朋友，半夜到他那里去，说，朋友，请借给我三个饼；
And He said to them, Who among you will have a friend and will go to him at midnight and say to him, Friend, lend me three loaves,
11:6 因为我有一个朋友行路来到我这里，我没有什么可以给他摆上。
Since a friend of mine has come to me from a journey and I have nothing to set before him;
11:7 那人在里面回答说，不要搅扰我，门已经关闭，孩子们也同我在床上了，我不能起来给你。
And that one, from inside, will answer and say, Do not trouble me; the door is already shut and my children are with me in bed; I cannot rise up and give you
anything?
11:8 我告诉你们，虽不因他是朋友起来给他，但因他情辞迫切的直求，就必起来，照他所需用的给他。
I say to you, Even though he will not rise up and give him anything because he is his friend, surely because of his shameless persistence he will rise and give him
what he needs.
11:9 我又告诉你们，求，就给你们；寻找，就寻见；叩门，就给你们开门。
And I say to you, Ask and it shall be given to you; seek and you shall find; knock and it shall be opened to you.
11:10 因为凡求的，就得着；寻找的，就寻见；叩门的，就给他开门。
For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it shall be opened.
11:11 你们中间作父亲的，谁有儿子求鱼，反拿蛇当鱼给他？
But what father among you whose son shall ask for a fish will instead of a fish hand him a snake?
11:12 或求鸡蛋，反给他蝎子？
977
Or if he shall also ask for an egg will hand him a scorpion?
11:13 你们虽然不好，尚且知道把好东西给儿女，何况天上的父，岂不更将圣灵给求祂的人么？
If you then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the Father who is from heaven give the Holy Spirit to those who ask Him!
11:14 耶稣赶出一个哑吧鬼，鬼出去了，哑吧就说出话来，群众都希奇。
And once He was casting out a demon, and it was dumb. And when the demon had gone out, the dumb man spoke, and the crowds marveled.
11:15 其中却有人说，祂是靠着鬼王别西卜赶鬼。
But some of them said, By Beelzebul, the ruler of the demons, He casts out the demons.
11:16 又有人试诱耶稣，向祂求个从天上来的神迹。
And others, tempting Him, sought from Him a sign out of heaven.
11:17 耶稣知道他们的意念，就对他们说，凡一国自相分争，必至荒凉；一家自相分争，也必败落。
But He, knowing their thoughts, said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself becomes desolate, and a house divided against a house falls.
11:18 若撒但自相分争，他的国怎能站住？因为你们说我是靠着别西卜赶鬼。
And if Satan also is divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? For you say that it is by Beelzebul that I cast out the demons.
11:19 我若是靠着别西卜赶鬼，你们的子弟又是靠谁赶呢？这样，他们就要审判你们了。
But if I by Beelzebul cast out the demons, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges.
11:20 我若靠着神的指头赶鬼，这就是神的国临到你们了。
But if I by the finger of God cast out the demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.
11:21 壮者全副武装，看守自己住宅的时候，他的家业就平安无事。
When the strong man, fully armed, guards his own homestead, his possessions are in peace.
11:22 但有一个比他更壮的来，胜过他，就夺去他所倚靠的全副军装，又分了他的掳物。
But when one stronger than he comes upon him and overcomes him, he takes away his whole armor in which he had trusted and distributes his spoil.
11:23 不与我相合的，就是敌我的；不同我收聚的，就是分散的。
He who is not with Me is against Me, and he who does not gather with Me scatters.
11:24 污灵从人里面出来，在无水之地荡来荡去，寻找安歇之处，却寻不着，便说，我要回到我所出来我的屋里去。
When the unclean spirit goes out from the man, it roams through waterless places, seeking rest, and not finding it, it says, I will return to my house from which I
came out.
11:25 到了，就见里面打扫干净，装饰好了。
And it comes and finds it swept and decorated.
11:26 于是去另带了七个比自己更恶的灵来，一同进去，住在那里。那人末后的景况，就比先前更坏了。
Then it goes and takes along other spirits more evil than itself, seven of them, and they enter and settle down there. And the last state of that man becomes
worse than the first.
11:27 耶稣正说这些话的时候，群众中间，有一个女人高声对祂说，怀你胎的和乳养你的有福了。
And as He said these things, a certain woman out of the crowd lifted up her voice and said to Him, Blessed is the womb that bore You and the breasts at which
You nursed.
11:28 耶稣说，那听神的话而遵行的人，更是有福的。
But He said, Blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it.
11:29 当群众集合一起的时候，耶稣开讲说，这世代是个邪恶的世代。它寻求神迹，除了约拿的神迹以外，再没有神迹给它。
And as the crowds were thronging together, He began to say, This generation is an evil generation; it seeks a sign, and a sign shall not be given to it except the
sign of Jonah.
11:30 约拿怎样成了给尼尼微人的神迹，人子也要照样成了给这世代的神迹。
For even as Jonah became a sign to the Ninevites, so also will the Son of Man be to this generation.
11:31 在审判的时候，南方的女王要同这世代的人起来，并要定这世代人的罪，因为她从地极来，要听所罗门的智慧话。看哪，在这里有比所罗门更大的。
The queen of the south will rise up in the judgment with the men of this generation and will condemn them, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear
the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, something more than Solomon is here.
11:32 在审判的时候，尼尼微人要同这世代站起来，并要定这世代的罪，因为他们听了约拿所传扬的，就悔改了。看哪，在这里有比约拿更大的。
Ninevite men will stand up in the judgment with this generation and will condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something
more than Jonah is here.
11:33 没有人点灯放在地窖里，或是斗底下，乃是放在灯台上，使进来的人得见亮光。
No one, after lighting a lamp, puts it in the cellar or under the bushel, but on the lampstand, in order that those who enter in may see the light.
11:34 你的眼睛就是身上的灯，你的眼睛单一的时候，全身就明亮；但你的眼睛不专的时候，身体就黑暗。
The lamp of the body is your eye. When your eye is single, your whole body also is full of light; but when it is evil, your body also is dark.
11:35 所以你要察看，你里面的光是否黑暗了。
Watch out therefore that the light which is in you is not darkness.
11:36 若是你全身明亮，毫无黑暗，就必完全明亮，如同灯的明光照亮你。
If therefore your whole body is full of light and does not have any dark part, the whole will be full of light as when the lamp with its rays illuminates you.
11:37 说话的时候，有一个法利赛人请耶稣同他吃饭，耶稣就进去坐席。
Now as He spoke, a Pharisee asked Him to have the morning meal with him; and He went in and reclined at table.
11:38 这法利赛人看见耶稣饭前不先洗手，就希奇。
But the Pharisee, seeing it, marveled that He had not first washed before the meal.
11:39 主对他说，如今你们法利赛人洁净杯盘的外面，你们里面却满了勒索和邪恶。
But the Lord said to him, Again, you Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and of the platter, but your inside is full of extortion and wickedness.
11:40 无知的人哪，那造外面的，不也造里面么？
Foolish ones! Did not He who made the outside make the inside also?
11:41 只要把里面的施舍给人，看哪，凡物于你们就都洁净了。
But give the things which are within as alms, and behold, all things are clean to you.
978
11:42 你们这些法利赛人有祸了！因为你们将薄荷、芸香并各样菜蔬，献上十分之一，那正义和爱神的事却忽略了；这些原是必须行的，那些也是不可忽
略的。
But woe to you, Pharisees! For you give a tenth of the mint and the rue and every herb, and pass by justice and love for God. But these you should have done and
not passed by the others.
11:43 你们这些法利赛人有祸了！因为你们喜爱会堂里的高位，且喜爱人在市场上问你们安。
Woe to you, Pharisees! For you love the chief seat in the synagogues and the greetings in the marketplaces.
11:44 你们有祸了！因为你们如同不显露的坟墓，走在上面的人并不知道。
Woe to you! For you are like the unseen tombs, and the men who walk over them do not know it.
11:45 律法师中有一个回答耶稣说，夫子，你这样说，也把我们侮辱了。
And one of the lawyers answered and said to Him, Teacher, by saying these things, you insult us also.
11:46 耶稣说，你们律法师也有祸了！因为你们把难担的担子放在人身上，自己连一个指头也不肯动。
And He said, Woe to you lawyers also! For you burden men with burdens hard to bear, yet you yourselves do not touch the burdens with one of your fingers.
11:47 你们有祸了！因为你们建造申言者的坟墓，而他们正是你们祖宗所杀的。
Woe to you! For you build up the tombs of the prophets, and your fathers killed them.
11:48 可见你们祖宗所作的事，你们既见证，又称许；因为他们杀了申言者，你们建造申言者的坟墓。
You are witnesses then and fully approve of the works of your fathers, because they killed them, and you build up their tombs.
11:49 所以神的智慧曾说，我要差遣申言者和使徒到他们那里去，有的他们要杀害，有的他们要逼迫，
Therefore the wisdom of God also has said, I will send to them prophets and apostles, and some of them they will kill and persecute,
11:50 使创世以来所流众申言者的血，都要向这世代追讨，
In order that the blood of all the prophets which has been poured out from the foundation of the world may be required of this generation,
11:51 就是从亚伯的血起，直到被灭在坛和殿中间撒迦利亚的血为止；我实在告诉你们，这都要向这世代追讨。
From the blood of Abel to the blood of Zachariah, who perished between the altar and the house. Yes, I tell you, it will be required of this generation.
11:52 你们律法师有祸了！因为你们把知识的钥匙夺了去，自己不进去，那些正要进去的，你们也阻挡。
Woe to you lawyers! For you have taken away the key of knowledge; you yourselves did not enter, and those who were entering, you hindered.
11:53 耶稣从那里出来，经学家和法利赛人就极力的敌视祂，引动祂多说话，
And when He went out from there, the scribes and the Pharisees began to be very hostile and to provoke Him to speak concerning many things,
11:54 伺机等待，要从祂口中猎取话柄。
Lying in wait for Him in order to catch something out of His mouth.
路加福音 Luke 第 12 章
12:1 这时，有数万群众聚集，甚至彼此践踏，耶稣开讲，先对门徒说，你们自己要提防法利赛人的酵，就是假冒为善。
Meanwhile, when the myriads of the crowd were gathered together so that they trampled on one another, He began to say to His disciples first, Beware of the
leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
12:2 只是完全掩盖的事没有不被揭露的，隐藏的事没有不被人知道的。
But there is nothing covered up which will not be revealed, and hidden which will not be known.
12:3 所以你们在暗中所说的，将要在明处被听见；在内室附耳所说的，将要在房顶上被宣扬。
Therefore what you have said in the darkness will be heard in the light, and what you have spoken in the ear in the private rooms will be proclaimed on the
housetops.
12:4 我的朋友，我对你们说，不要怕那些杀身体，以后不能再作什么的。
And I say to you My friends, Do not fear those who kill the body and afterward have nothing more that they can do.
12:5 我要指示你们当怕的是谁；当怕那杀了以后，又有权柄扔在火坑里的；我实在告诉你们，正要怕祂。
But I will show you whom you should fear: fear Him who, after killing, has authority to cast into Gehenna; yes, I tell you, fear this One.
12:6 五只麻雀不是卖二个铜钱么？在神面前一只也不会忘记。
Are not five sparrows sold for two assaria? And not one of them is forgotten before God.
12:7 就是连你们的头发，也都被数过了。不要怕，你们比许多麻雀还贵重。
But even the hairs of your head have all been numbered. Do not be afraid; you are of more value than many sparrows.
12:8 我又告诉你们，凡在人面前，在我里面承认我的，人子在神的使者面前，也必在他里面承认他；
Moreover, I tell you, Everyone who confesses in Me before men, the Son of Man will also confess in him before the angels of God;
12:9 那在人面前不认我的，人子在神的使者面前，也必否认他。
But he who denies Me before men will be denied before the angels of God.
12:10 凡说话抵挡人子的，还能得赦免；惟独亵渎圣灵的，不能得赦免。
And everyone who will say a word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him; but he who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven.
12:11 人带你们到会堂、官长和有权柄的人面前，不要忧虑该怎么分诉，或分诉什么，或该说什么；
And when they bring you before the synagogues and the rulers and the authorities, do not be anxious about how or what you should reply in defense, or what
you should say;
12:12 因为在那时刻，圣灵自会教导你们当说的话。
For the Holy Spirit will teach you in that hour what should be said.
12:13 群众中有一个人对祂说，夫子，请你吩咐我的兄弟同我分产业。
And someone out of the crowd said to Him, Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.
12:14 耶稣对他说，人哪，谁立我作你们的审判官，或分家业的人？
But He said to him, Man, who appointed Me a judge or a divider over you?
12:15 于是对众人说，你们要当心，要自守，免去一切的贪婪；因为人的生命，不在于家业丰富。
And He said to them, Watch and guard yourself from all covetousness, for no one's life is in the abundance of his possessions.
12:16 耶稣就告诉他们一个比喻，说，有一个财主的田地出产丰盛；
979
And He told them a parable, saying, The land of a certain rich man brought forth abundantly.
12:17 他自己心里思量说，我的出产没有地方收藏，怎么办？
And he reasoned in himself, saying, What shall I do, for I have no place where I may gather my crops?
12:18 又说，我要这样办：要把我的仓房拆了，另盖更大的，好在那里收藏我一切的麦子和财物。
And he said, I will do this: I will tear down my barns and build larger ones, and I will gather there all my wheat and my goods.
12:19 然后要对我的魂说，魂哪，你有许多财物积存，可供多年享用，你休息吧，吃喝快乐吧。
And I will say to my soul, Soul, you have many goods laid up for many years; rest, eat, drink, be merry.
12:20 神却对他说，无知的人哪，今夜必要你的魂；你所预备的，要归谁？
But God said to him, Foolish one, this night they are requiring your soul from you; and the things which you have prepared, whose will they be?
12:21 那为自己积财，对神却不富足的，也是这样。
So is he who stores up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God.
12:22 耶稣又对门徒说，所以我告诉你们，不要为生命忧虑，吃什么，也不要为身体忧虑，穿什么。
And He said to His disciples, Therefore I say to you, Do not be anxious for your life, what you should eat; nor for your body, what you should put on;
12:23 因为生命胜于食物，身体胜于衣服。
For the life is more than food, and the body more than clothing.
12:24 你们想乌鸦，它们既不种，也不收，没有仓，也没有库，神尚且养活它们。你们比飞鸟贵重多了。
Consider the ravens. They neither sow nor reap, they have neither storehouse nor barn; yet God nourishes them. How much more valuable are you than the birds!
12:25 你们中间谁能因忧虑使自己的身量多加一肘？
And which of you by being anxious can add a cubit to his stature?
12:26 这最小的事，你们尚且不能作，为什么还忧虑其余的事？
If then you cannot do even the least, why are you anxious about the rest?
12:27 你们想百合花，怎样生长；它们既不劳苦，也不纺线。但我告诉你们，就是所罗门在他极盛的荣耀里，也没有披戴得像这些花中的一朵。
Consider the lilies, how they grow; they do not toil nor even spin thread; but I tell you, Not even Solomon in all his glory was clothed like one of these.
12:28 小信的人哪，野地里的草，今天存在，明天就丢在炉里，神尚且这样给它穿戴，何况你们？
Now if God so arrays the grass in the field, which is here today and tomorrow is cast into the furnace, how much more will He clothe you, you of little faith!
12:29 你们不要寻求吃什么，喝什么，也不要挂心。
And you, do not seek what you shall eat and what you shall drink, and do not be unsettled.
12:30 因为这一切都是世上外邦人所急切寻求的，你们的父却知道你们需要这一切。
For all these things the Gentiles of the world are anxiously seeking, but your Father knows that you need these things.
12:31 但你们要寻求祂的国，这些就都要加给你们了。
However, seek His kingdom, and these things shall be added to you.
12:32 你们这小群，不要惧怕，因为你们的父乐意把国赐给你们。
Do not be afraid, little flock, because your Father has been well pleased to give you the kingdom.
12:33 要变卖你们的家业，施舍给人；为自己预备永不旧的钱袋，用不尽的财宝在诸天之上，就是贼不能近，虫不能蛀的地方。
Sell your possessions and give alms; make for yourselves purses which do not become old, an unfailing treasure in the heavens, where thief does not come near
nor even moth corrupts;
12:34 因为你们的财宝在那里，你们的心也必在那里。
For where your treasure is, there also your heart will be.
12:35 你们腰间要束上带，灯也要点着，
Let your loins be girded and your lamps burning,
12:36 自己好像人等候他们的主人从婚筵上回来，他来到叩门，就立即给他开门。
And you be like men waiting for their own master when he returns from the wedding feast, so that when he comes and knocks they may open to him
immediately.
12:37 主人来了，看见奴仆儆醒，那些奴仆就有福了。我实在告诉你们，主人必自己束上带，叫他们坐席，进前服事他们。
Blessed are those slaves whom the master, when he comes, will find watching. Truly I tell you that he will gird himself and will have them recline at table, and he
will come to them and serve them.
12:38 他或是二更天来，或是三更天来，看见他们这样，那些奴仆就有福了。
And if he comes in the second watch, or if in the third, and finds them so, blessed are those slaves.
12:39 但你们要知道，家主若晓得贼在什么时刻要来，他就不会容他的房屋被人挖透。
But know this, that if the master of the house had known in what hour the thief was coming, he would not have allowed his house to be broken into.
12:40 你们也要预备，因为在你们想不到的时辰，人子就来了。
You also, be ready, because at an hour when you do not expect it, the Son of Man is coming.
12:41 彼得说，主阿，这比喻是对我们说的，还是也对众人说的？
And Peter said, Lord, are You saying this parable to us, or also to all?
12:42 主说，谁是那忠信又精明的管家，为主人所派，管理他的仆从，按时分粮给他们？
And the Lord said, Who then is the faithful and prudent steward, whom the master will set over his service to give them their portion of food at the proper time?
12:43 主人来到，看见他这样行，那奴仆就有福了。
Blessed is that slave whom his master, when he comes, will find so doing.
12:44 我实在告诉你们，主人要派他管理一切的家业。
Truly I tell you that he will set him over all his possessions.
12:45 若是那奴仆心里说，我的主人必来得迟，就动手打仆人和使女，并且吃喝醉酒；
But if that slave says in his heart, My master is delaying his coming, and begins to beat the male servants and the female servants and to eat and to drink and
become drunk,
12:46 在想不到的日子，不知道的时辰，那奴仆的主人要来，把他割断，定他和不信的人同受处分。
The master of that slave will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour which he does not know, and will cut him asunder, and will appoint his
portion with the unbelievers.
980
12:47 奴仆知道主人的意思，却不预备，或是不照着他的意思行，那奴仆必多受鞭打。
And that slave who knew his master's will and did not prepare or do according to his will, will receive many lashes;
12:48 惟有那不知道的，作了当受鞭打的事，必少受鞭打。多给谁，就向谁多取；多托谁，就向谁格外多要。
But he who did not know, yet did things worthy of stripes, will receive few lashes. But to every one to whom much has been given, much will be required from him;
and to whom much has been committed, they will ask of him all the more.
12:49 我来要把火丢在地上，若是已经着起来，那是我所愿意的。
I have come to cast fire on the earth, and how I wish that it were already kindled!
12:50 我有当受的浸，还没有成就，我是何等的困迫！
But I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how I am pressed until it is accomplished!
12:51 你们以为我来，是带给地上和平么？我告诉你们，不是，乃是带给人分争。
Do you think that I have come to give peace on the earth? No, I tell you, but rather division.
12:52 因为从今以后，一家五个人将要分争，三个人反两个人，两个人反三个人。
For from now on there will be five in one house divided, three against two and two against three.
12:53 他们将要分争：父亲反儿子，儿子反父亲；母亲反女儿，女儿反母亲；婆婆反儿媳，儿媳反婆婆。
They will be divided: father against son and son against father; mother against her daughter and daughter against her mother; mother-in-law against her
daughter-in-law, and daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
12:54 耶稣又对群众说，你们几时看见西边起了云彩，就立即说，要下一阵雨，果然如此。
And He said also to the crowds, When you see a cloud rising in the west, immediately you say that a shower is coming, and so it happens.
12:55 你们几时看见吹起南风，就说，将要燥热，也果然如此。
And when you see a south wind blowing, you say that there will be scorching heat, and it happens.
12:56 假冒为善的人哪，你们知道分辨天地的气色，怎么不知道分辨这时期？
Hypocrites, you know how to discern the face of the earth and of the sky. How is it then that you do not know how to discern this time?
12:57 你们又为什么不自己判断，什么是公义的事？
And why do you not judge also of yourselves what is right?
12:58 因为你同告你的对头去见官，还在路上，就要尽力和他了结，免得他把你拖到审判官面前，审判官交给差役，差役就把你下在监里了。
For as you are going with your opponent at law to a magistrate, endeavor to be released from him on the way, lest he drag you to the judge; and the judge will
deliver you up to the officer, and the officer will throw you into prison.
12:59 我告诉你，非到你还清最后一分钱，你绝不能从那里出来。
I tell you, You shall by no means come out from there until you have paid the very last lepton.
路加福音 Luke 第 13 章
13:1 就在那时，有几个在场的人，将彼拉多把加利利人的血搀杂在他们祭物中的事，报告耶稣。
Now there were some present at the same time who reported to Him concerning the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mixed with their sacrifices.
13:2 耶稣回答他们说，因着这些加利利人受这害，你们就以为他们比所有的加利利人更有罪么？
And He answered and said to them, Do you think that these Galileans were sinners beyond all the Galileans because they suffered these things?
13:3 我告诉你们，不是的。你们若不悔改，都要如此灭亡。
No, I tell you; but unless you repent, you shall all likewise perish.
13:4 从前西罗亚楼倒塌，压死十八个人，你们以为他们比一切住在耶路撒冷的人更有亏欠么？
Or those eighteen on whom the tower in Siloam fell and killed them, do you think that they were debtors beyond all the men dwelling in Jerusalem?
13:5 我告诉你们，不是的。你们若不悔改，都要如此灭亡。
No, I tell you; but unless you repent, you shall all similarly perish.
13:6 于是祂说了这个比喻：一个人有一棵无花果树，栽在他的葡萄园里。他来，在树上找果子，却找不着。
And He told this parable: A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard. And he came seeking fruit on it and did not find any.
13:7 就对管园的说，看哪，这三年我来，在这无花果树上找果子，竟找不着，把它砍了吧，何必还白占地土？
And he said to the vinedresser, Behold, for three years I have come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and I have not found any. Cut it down therefore. Why does it also
make the ground useless?
13:8 管园的回答他说，主阿，今年且留着，等我周围掘开土，堆上肥；
But he answered and said to him, Master, leave it this year also, until I dig around it and throw on manure.
13:9 将来若真结果子便罢，不然再把它砍了。
And if it produces fruit in the future, good; otherwise, cut it down.
13:10 当安息日，耶稣在一个会堂里施教。
And He was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath.
13:11 看哪，有一个女人，被病弱的灵附着，已经十八年了，腰弯得一点都直不起来。
And behold, there was a woman who had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and she was bent double and could not stand erect at all.
13:12 耶稣看见，便叫过她来，对她说，女人，你脱离这病了。
And Jesus, seeing her, called her to Him and said to her, Woman, you are released from your infirmity.
13:13 于是用两只手按着她，她立刻直起腰来，就荣耀神。
And He laid His hands on her, and instantly she was made erect and began to glorify God.
13:14 管会堂的因为耶稣在安息日治病，就气忿忿的对群众说，有六日应当作工，在那六日之内，可以来求医，在安息日却不可。
But the ruler of the synagogue, being indignant because Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, answered and said to the crowd, There are six days in which man
should work; therefore, come on them and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day.
13:15 主却回答他说，假冒为善的人哪，难道你们各人在安息日不解开槽上的牛驴，牵去饮么？
But the Lord answered him and said, Hypocrites! Does not each of you on the Sabbath untie his ox or his donkey from the manger and lead it away and water it?
13:16 何况这女人本是亚伯拉罕的后裔，看哪，她被撒但捆绑了十八年，不当在安息日解开她的捆锁么？
981
And this woman, being a daughter of Abraham whom Satan has bound, behold, for eighteen years, should she not have been released from this bond on the
Sabbath day?
13:17 耶稣说这话，一切敌对祂的人都羞愧了。群众因祂所行一切荣耀的事，就都欢喜。
And when He said these things, all those opposing Him were put to shame, and all the crowd rejoiced over all the glorious things that were being done by Him.
13:18 耶稣说，神的国好像什么？我可把它比作什么？
He said therefore, What is the kingdom of God like, and to what shall I liken it?
13:19 好像一粒芥菜种，有人拿去撒在自己的园子里，长大成树，天空的飞鸟栖宿在它的枝上。
It is like a mustard seed, which a man took and threw into his own garden, and it grew and became a tree, and the birds of heaven roosted in its branches.
13:20 祂又说，我可把神的国比作什么？
And again He said, To what shall I liken the kingdom of God?
13:21 好像面酵，有妇人拿去藏在三斗面里，直到全团都发了酵。
It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal until the whole was leavened.
13:22 耶稣往耶路撒冷去，在所经过的各城各乡施教。
And He journeyed throughout the cities and villages, teaching and making His way toward Jerusalem.
13:23 有一个人问祂说，主阿，得救的人为数少么？
And someone said to Him, Lord, are there only a few who are being saved?
13:24 耶稣对众人说，你们要竭力进窄门，因为我告诉你们，将来有许多人想要进去，却是不能。
And He said to them, Struggle to enter through the narrow door, because many, I tell you, will seek to enter, yet will not be able.
13:25 及至家主起来关了门，你们才站在外面叩门，说，主阿，给我们开门，祂就要回答你们说，我不认识你们，不晓得你们是那里来的。
Once the Master of the house has risen and shuts the door, and you begin to stand outside and knock on the door, saying, Lord, open to us, then He will answer
and say to you, I do not know you, nor where you are from.
13:26 那时，你们要说，我们在你面前吃过、喝过，你也在我们的街上施教过。
Then you will begin to say, We ate in Your presence and drank, and You taught in our streets.
13:27 祂要说，我告诉你们，我不晓得你们是那里来的；你们这一切行不义的人，离开我去吧。
And He will say, I tell you, I do not know where you are from. Go away from Me, all you workers of unrighteousness.
13:28 你们要看见亚伯拉罕、以撒、雅各、和众申言者都在神的国里，你们却被扔在外面，在那里必要哀哭切齿了。
There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth there when you see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, but you being cast
outside.
13:29 从东、从西、从北、从南，将有人来，在神的国里坐席。
And they will come from the east and the west, and from the north and the south, and will recline at table in the kingdom of God.
13:30 看哪，有在后的将要在前，有在前的将要在后。
And behold, there are some last who will be first, and there are some first who will be last.
13:31 正当那时，有几个法利赛人进前来对耶稣说，离开这里去吧，因为希律想要杀你。
In the same hour some Pharisees came up, saying to Him, Get out and go from here, for Herod wants to kill you.
13:32 耶稣对他们说，你们去告诉那个狐狸说，看哪，今天明天我赶鬼治病，第三天我就得成全了。
And He said to them, Go and tell that fox, Behold, I cast out demons and accomplish healings today and tomorrow, and on the third day I am perfected.
13:33 虽然这样，今天明天后天，我必须前行，因为申言者在耶路撒冷之外丧命是不合宜的。
However, I must journey today and tomorrow and on the following day because it is not acceptable for a prophet to perish outside of Jerusalem.
13:34 耶路撒冷阿，耶路撒冷阿，你常杀害申言者，又用石头打死那奉差遣到你这里来的。我多次愿意聚集你的儿女，好像母鸡把自己的小鸡聚集在翅膀
底下，只是你们不愿意。
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her! How often I desired to gather your children together, the way a hen gathers
her own brood under her wings, and you would not!
13:35 看哪，你们的家留给你们。我告诉你们，你们不得再见我，直等到你们说，在主名里来的，是当受颂赞的！
Behold, your house is left to you. And I say to you, You shall by no means see Me until the time comes when you say, Blessed is He who comes in the name of
the Lord!
路加福音 Luke 第 14 章
14:1 当安息日，耶稣到一个法利赛人的首领家里去吃饭，他们在窥探祂。
And as He went into the house of one of the rulers of the Pharisees on a Sabbath to eat bread, they were watching Him closely.
14:2 看哪，在祂面前有一个患水臌的人。
And behold, there was before Him a certain man suffering from dropsy.
14:3 耶稣对律法师和法利赛人说，安息日治病，可以不可以？
And Jesus answered and spoke to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath or not?
14:4 他们却静默无声。耶稣就扶着那人，医治了他，打发他走了。
But they were quiet. And He took hold of him and healed him and sent him away.
14:5 然后对他们说，你们中间谁有驴或牛，在安息日掉在井里，不立即拉它上来？
And He said to them, Which of you having a donkey or an ox that falls into a well will not immediately pull it out on the Sabbath day?
14:6 他们不能对答这话。
And they were not able to reply to these things.
14:7 耶稣注意到被请的客人怎样选择首位，就对他们讲了一个比喻说，
And He told a parable to those who had been invited, when He noticed how they were choosing the places of honor, saying to them,
14:8 你被人请去赴婚筵，不要坐在首位上，恐怕有比你尊贵的被他请来；
When you are invited by anyone to a wedding feast, do not recline in the place of honor, lest someone more honorable than you may have been invited by him,
14:9 那请你们的人前来对你说，让座给这一位吧。你就羞羞惭惭的坐到末位上去了。
982
And he who invited you and him come and say to you, Give this one that place; and then you begin with shame to occupy the last place.
14:10 你被请的时候，要去坐在末位上，好叫那请你的人来，对你说，朋友，请上坐。那时你在同席的人面前就有光采了。
But when you are invited, go and recline in the last place, so that when the one who has invited you comes, he may say to you, Friend, come up higher. Then you
will have glory before all those reclining with you.
14:11 因为凡高抬自己的，必降为卑；降卑自己的，必升为高。
For everyone who exalts himself shall be humbled, and he who humbles himself shall be exalted.
14:12 耶稣又对请祂的人说，你摆设午饭或晚饭，不要请你的朋友、弟兄、亲属和富足的邻舍，恐怕他们也回请你，你就得了报答。
And He said also to the one who had invited Him, When you make a morning meal or a dinner, do not call your friends or your brothers or your relatives or rich
neighbors, lest they also invite you in return and it become a repayment to you.
14:13 你摆设筵席，倒要请那贫穷的、残废的、瘸腿的、瞎眼的，你就有福了，
But when you give a reception, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind,
14:14 因为他们没有可报答你的；在义人复活的时候，你要得着报答。
And you will be blessed, because they do not have anything with which to repay you; for it will be repaid to you in the resurrection of the righteous.
14:15 同席的有一人听见这话，就对耶稣说，在神国里吃饭的有福了。
And one of those reclining at table with Him, hearing these things, said to Him, Blessed is he who shall eat bread in the kingdom of God.
14:16 耶稣对他说，有一人摆设大筵席，请了许多人。
And He said to him, A certain man was making a great dinner and invited many;
14:17 到了坐席的时候，打发奴仆去对所请的人说，请来吧，样样都齐备了。
And he sent his slave at the dinner hour to say to those who had been invited, Come, for all things are now ready.
14:18 众人一致推辞。头一个对他说，我买了一块地，必须去看看，请你准我辞了。
And they all with one consent began to make excuses. The first said to him, I have bought a piece of land, and I need to go out and see it. I ask you, have me
excused.
14:19 另一个说，我买了五对牛，要去试一试，请你准我辞了。
And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I am going to prove them. I ask you, have me excused.
14:20 还有一个说，我才娶了妻，所以不能去。
And another said, I have married a wife, and because of this I cannot come.
14:21 那奴仆回来，把这些事都报告了主人。家主就动怒，对奴仆说，快出去到城里大街小巷，带那贫穷的、残废的、瞎眼的、瘸腿的到这里来。
And the slave came up and reported these things to his master. Then the master of the house became angry and told his slave, Go out quickly into the streets
and lanes of the city, and bring in here the poor and crippled and blind and lame.
14:22 奴仆说，主阿，你所吩咐的已经办了，还有空位。
And the slave said, Master, what you commanded has been done, and still there is room.
14:23 主人对奴仆说，你出去到路上和篱笆那里，勉强人进来，坐满我的屋子。
And the master said to the slave, Go out into the roads and hedges and compel them to come in, so that my house may be filled.
14:24 我告诉你们，先前所请的人，没有一个得尝我的筵席。
For I tell you that none of those men who were invited shall taste of my dinner.
14:25 有好多群众和耶稣同行，祂转过身来对他们说，
And there were great crowds going along with Him, and He turned and said to them,
14:26 人到我这里来，若不恨自己的父亲、母亲、妻子、儿女、弟兄、姊妹，甚至自己的魂生命，就不能作我的门徒。
If anyone comes to Me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, and moreover, even his own soul-life, he
cannot be My disciple.
14:27 凡不背着自己十字架跟从我的，也不能作我的门徒。
Whoever does not carry his own cross and come after Me cannot be My disciple.
14:28 你们中间谁想要盖一座楼，不先坐下计算花费，能盖成不能？
For which of you, wanting to build a tower, does not first sit down and calculate the cost, whether he has enough to complete it?
14:29 恐怕安了地基，不能完工，看见的人都嘲笑他，说，
Lest perhaps, once he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all those looking on will begin to mock him,
14:30 这个人开始盖造，却不能完工。
Saying, This man began to build and was not able to finish.
14:31 或是一个王，去和别的王打仗，岂不先坐下酌量，能用一万人去迎战那领二万人来攻打他的么？
Or what king, going to engage another king in war, will not first sit down and deliberate whether he is able with ten thousand to meet the one coming against
him with twenty thousand?
14:32 若是不能，就趁敌人还远的时候，派特使去求和平的条款。
Otherwise, while he is yet at a distance, he sends an envoy and asks for the terms of peace.
14:33 这样，你们每个人，若不舍弃一切所有的，就不能作我的门徒。
In the same way therefore everyone of you who does not forsake all his own possessions cannot be My disciple.
14:34 盐本是好的，但若是连盐也失了味，可用什么叫它再咸？
Therefore salt is good; but if even the salt becomes tasteless, with what will its saltiness be restored?
14:35 或用在田里，或堆在粪里，都不合式，只好扔在外面。有耳可听的，就应当听。
It is fit neither for the land nor for the manure pile; they will throw it out. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
路加福音 Luke 第 15 章
15:1 众税吏和罪人都挨近耶稣，要听祂。
Now all the tax collectors and sinners were drawing near to Him to hear Him.
15:2 法利赛人和经学家纷纷的唧咕议论说，这个人接待罪人，又同他们吃饭。
983
And both the Pharisees and the scribes murmured among themselves, saying, This man welcomes sinners and eats with them.
15:3 耶稣就对他们讲了这个比喻说，
And He told them this parable, saying,
15:4 你们中间谁有一百只羊，失去其中的一只，不把这九十九只撇在旷野，去找那失去的，直到找着么？
Which man of you, who has a hundred sheep and has lost one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the wilderness and go after the one which is lost until
he finds it?
15:5 找着了，就欢欢喜喜的扛在自己肩上，回到家里，
And when he finds it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
15:6 召齐朋友、邻舍，对他们说，和我一同欢喜吧，因为我失去的那只羊已经找着了。
And when he comes into his house, he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying to them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost.
15:7 我告诉你们，一个罪人悔改，在天上也要这样为他欢喜，比为九十九个不用悔改的义人欢喜更大。
I tell you that in the same way there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner repenting than over ninety-nine righteous persons who have no need of
repentance.
15:8 或是一个妇人有十个银币，若失落一个，岂不点上灯，打扫屋子，细细的找，直到找着么？
Or what woman having ten silver coins, if she loses one silver coin, does not light a lamp and sweep the house and seek carefully until she finds it?
15:9 找着了，就召齐朋友、邻舍，说，和我一同欢喜吧，因为我失落的那个银币已经找着了。
And when she finds it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the coin which I lost.
15:10 我告诉你们，一个罪人悔改，在神的使者面前，也是这样为他欢喜。
In the same way, I tell you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner repenting.
15:11 耶稣又说，一个人有两个儿子。
And He said, A certain man had two sons.
15:12 小的对父亲说，父亲，请把归我的那一分家产给我。他父亲就把产业分给他们。
And the younger of them said to the father, Father, give me the share of the estate that falls to me. And he distributed to them his living.
15:13 过了不多几日，小儿子就收拾一切，起身往远方去了，在那里生活放荡，挥霍家产。
And not many days after, the younger son, having gathered everything together, went abroad to a distant country and there squandered his estate by living
dissolutely.
15:14 既耗尽了一切，又遇着那地方大遭饥荒，就穷乏起来。
And when he had spent all, a severe famine occurred throughout that country, and he began to be in want.
15:15 于是去投靠那地方的一个居民，那人打发他到自己的田里去放猪。
And he went and joined himself to one of the citizens of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed hogs.
15:16 他恨不得拿猪所吃的豆荚充饥，也没有人给他。
And he longed to be satisfied with the carob pods which the hogs were eating, and no one gave him anything.
15:17 他醒悟过来，就说，我父亲有多少的雇工，口粮有余，我倒在这里饿死么？
But when he came to himself, he said, How many of my father's hired servants abound in bread, but I am perishing here in famine!
15:18 我要起来，到我父亲那里去，向他说，父亲，我犯罪得罪了天，并得罪了你。
I will rise up and go to my father, and I will say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you.
15:19 我不配再称为你的儿子，把我当作一个雇工吧。
I am no longer worthy to be called your son; make me like one of your hired servants.
15:20 于是起来往他父亲那里去。相离还远，他父亲看见，就动了慈心，跑去抱着他的颈项，热切的与他亲嘴。
And he rose up and came to his own father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and was moved with compassion, and he ran and fell on his
neck and kissed him affectionately.
15:21 儿子说，父亲，我犯罪得罪了天，并得罪了你。我不配再称为你的儿子。
And the son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you; I am no longer worthy to be called your son.
15:22 父亲却吩咐奴仆说，快把那上好的袍子拿出来给他穿，把戒指戴在他手上，把鞋穿在他脚上，
But the father said to his slaves, Bring out quickly the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand and sandals on his feet.
15:23 把那肥牛犊牵来宰了，让我们吃喝快乐。
And bring the fattened calf; slaughter it, and let us eat and be merry,
15:24 因为我这个儿子是死而复活，失而又得的。他们就快乐起来。
Because this son of mine was dead and lives again; he was lost and has been found. And they began to be merry.
15:25 那时，大儿子正在田里。他回来，离家不远，听见作乐跳舞的声音，
Now his older son was in the field. And as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing,
15:26 便叫过一个仆人来，查问是什么事。
And calling to him one of the servants, he inquired what these things might be.
15:27 仆人说，你兄弟来了，你父亲因为得他无灾无病的回来，把肥牛犊宰了。
And he said to him, Your brother has come, and your father has slaughtered the fattened calf because he has received him back healthy.
15:28 大儿子就生气，不肯进去，他父亲就出来劝他。
But he became angry and was not willing to enter. And his father came out and entreated him.
15:29 他对父亲说，看哪，我像奴仆服事你这么多年，从来没有违背过你的命令，你并没有给我一只山羊羔，叫我和朋友一同快乐。
But he answered and said to his father, Behold, so many years I have been slaving for you and have never neglected a command of yours, and you have never
given me a goat that I might be merry with my friends;
15:30 但你这个儿子，和娼妓吞尽了你的产业，他一来了，你倒为他宰了肥牛犊。
But when this son of yours came, who devoured your living with harlots, you slaughtered for him the fattened calf.
15:31 父亲对他说，孩子，你始终和我同在，我一切所有的都是你的。
And he said to him, Child, you are always with me, and all that is mine is yours.
15:32 只是你这个兄弟是死而复活，失而又得的，所以我们理当欢喜快乐。
But we had to be merry and rejoice, because this brother of yours was dead and has come to life, and he was lost and has been found.
984
路加福音 Luke 第 16 章
16:1 耶稣又对门徒说，有一个财主，他有一个管家，有人向他控告这人挥霍主人的财物。
And He said also to the disciples, There was a certain rich man who had a steward, and this one was accused to him of squandering his possessions.
16:2 主人叫管家来，对他说，我所听到关于你的事，是怎么样？把你管家职分的账目交代清楚，因你不能再作管家了。
And he called him and said to him, What is this I hear concerning you? Render the account of your stewardship, for you can no longer be steward.
16:3 那管家心里说，主人要撤去我的管家职分，我该作什么才好？锄地吧，无力；讨饭吧，怕羞。
And the steward said within himself, What shall I do, because my master is taking the stewardship away from me? I am not strong enough to dig; I am ashamed
to beg.
16:4 我知道该怎么作，好叫人在我被撤去管家职分之后，可以接我到他们家里去。
I know what I will do so that when I am removed from the stewardship they may receive me into their own houses.
16:5 于是把欠他主人债的，一个一个的叫了来，问头一个说，你欠我主人多少？
And when he had called to him each one of his master's debtors, he said to the first, How much do you owe my master?
16:6 他说，一百篓油。管家说，拿你的账，快坐下写五十。
And he said, A hundred measures of oil. And he said to him, Take your bill and sit down quickly and write fifty.
16:7 又问另一个说，你欠多少？他说，一百石麦子。管家说，拿你的账写八十。
Then to another he said, And you, how much do you owe? And he said, A hundred measures of wheat. He said to him, Take your bill and write eighty.
16:8 主人就夸奖这不义的管家作事精明；因为今世之子对待自己的世代，比光明之子更加精明。
And the master praised the unrighteous steward because he had acted prudently; for the sons of this age are more prudent in their dealings with their own
generation than the sons of light.
16:9 我又告诉你们，要借着那不义的钱财，为自己结交朋友，到了钱财无用的时候，他们可以接你们到永远的帐幕里去。
And I say to you, Make friends for yourselves by means of the mammon of unrighteousness, so that when it fails, they may receive you into the eternal
tabernacles.
16:10 在最小的事上忠信的，在许多事上也必忠信；在最小的事上不义的，在许多事上也必不义。
He who is faithful in the least is faithful also in much; and he who is unrighteous in the least is unrighteous also in much.
16:11 你们若是在不义的钱财上不忠信，谁还把那真实的信托你们？
If therefore you have not become faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will entrust to you what is true?
16:12 你们若是在别人的东西上不忠信，谁还把你们自己的东西给你们？
And if you have not become faithful in that which belongs to another, who will give to you that which is your own?
16:13 没有一个家仆能事奉两个主；因为他不是恨这个爱那个，就是忠于这个轻视那个。你们不能事奉神，又事奉玛门。
No household servant can serve two masters; for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will hold to one and despise the other. You cannot serve
God and mammon.
16:14 法利赛人是贪爱钱财的，他们听见这一切话，就嗤笑耶稣。
And the Pharisees, being lovers of money, heard all these things and were sneering at Him.
16:15 耶稣对他们说，你们是在人面前自称为义的，但神知道你们的心；因为在人中间高贵的，在神面前却是可憎的。
And He said to them, You are those who justify yourselves in the sight of men, but God knows your hearts; for that which is exalted among men is an
abomination in the sight of God.
16:16 律法和申言者到约翰为止；从此神的国当作福音传开了，人人强力夺取要进去。
The law and the prophets were until John; from that time the kingdom of God is proclaimed as the gospel, and everyone forces his way into it.
16:17 天地过去，比律法的一画落空还容易。
But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one serif of the law to fail.
16:18 凡休妻另娶的，就是犯奸淫；娶被丈夫所休之妇人的，也是犯奸淫。
Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery, and he who marries a woman who is divorced from her husband commits adultery.
16:19 有一个财主，素常穿着紫色袍和细麻布衣服，天天奢华宴乐。
Now there was a certain rich man, and he clothed himself in purple and fine linen, making merry every day in splendor.
16:20 又有一个讨饭的，名叫拉撒路，浑身生疮，被人丢在财主门口，
And a certain beggar named Lazarus was laid at his gate, covered with sores
16:21 巴不得从财主桌子上掉下来的东西得饱足；不但如此，连狗也来舔他的疮。
And longing to be satisfied with the things falling from the rich man's table; moreover, even the dogs came and licked his sores.
16:22 后来那讨饭的死了，被天使带去放在亚伯拉罕的怀里；财主也死了，并且埋葬了。
And the beggar died, and he was carried away by the angels into Abraham's bosom; and the rich man also died and was buried.
16:23 他在阴间受痛苦，举目远远的望见亚伯拉罕，又望见拉撒路在他怀里，
And in Hades he lifted up his eyes, being in torment, and saw Abraham from afar and Lazarus in his bosom.
16:24 就喊着说，我祖亚伯拉罕，可怜我吧，打发拉撒路来，用指头尖蘸点水，凉凉我的舌头，因为我在这火焰里极其痛苦。
And he called out and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me and send Lazarus to dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, because I am in
anguish in this flame.
16:25 亚伯拉罕说，孩子，你该回想你生前享过福，拉撒路也同样受过苦；如今他在这里得安慰，你倒受痛苦。
But Abraham said, Child, remember that in your lifetime you fully received your good things, and Lazarus likewise bad things; but now he is comforted here, and
you are in anguish.
16:26 不但这样，在我们与你们之间还有深渊隔定，以致人想要从这边过到你们那边是不能的，从那边越过来到我们这边也是不能的。
And besides all these things, between us and you a great chasm is fixed, so that those wanting to pass from here to you cannot, neither from there to us may
any cross over.
16:27 财主说，我祖阿，既是这样，求你打发拉撒路到我父家去，
And he said, Then I ask you, Father, to send him to the house of my father --
985
16:28 因为我有五个兄弟，他可以郑重的向他们作见证，免得他们也来到这痛苦的地方。
For I have five brothers -- so that he may solemnly testify to them, lest they also come to this place of torment.
16:29 亚伯拉罕说，他们有摩西和申言者可以听从。
But Abraham said, They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them.
16:30 他说，我祖亚伯拉罕，不是的；若有一位从死里复活的，到他们那里去，他们必要悔改。
But he said, No, Father Abraham; but if someone risen from the dead would go to them, they will repent.
16:31 亚伯拉罕说，他们若不听摩西和申言者，就是有一位从死人中复活的，他们也不会信服。
But he said to him, If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded if someone rises from the dead.
路加福音 Luke 第 17 章
17:1 耶稣又对门徒说，要使绊跌人的事不发生是不可能的，但那绊跌人的有祸了。
And He said to His disciples, It is impossible for causes of stumbling not to come, but woe to him through whom they come.
17:2 就是把磨石套在这人的脖子上，丢在海里，还强如他把这小子里的一个绊跌了。
It is more profitable for him if a millstone is put around his neck and he is hurled into the sea than to stumble one of these little ones.
17:3 你们要小心，若是你的弟兄犯了罪，就责备他；他若悔改，就赦免他。
Take heed to yourselves. If your brother sins, rebuke him; and if he repents, forgive him.
17:4 若是他一天七次得罪你，又七次回转，对你说，我悔改了，你总要赦免他。
And if he sins against you seven times in a day and turns again to you seven times, saying, I repent, you shall forgive him.
17:5 使徒对主说，求主增加我们的信心。
And the apostles said to the Lord, Increase our faith.
17:6 主说，你们若有信心像一粒芥菜种，就是对这棵桑树说，你得连根拔起，栽在海里，它也必听从你们。
But the Lord said, If you have faith like a mustard seed, you would have said to this sycamine tree, Be uprooted and be planted in the sea; and it would have
obeyed you.
17:7 你们谁有奴仆耕地或是牧羊，从田里回来，你们会对他说，快过来坐下吃饭？
But which of you, having a slave who is plowing or tending sheep, will say to him when he has come in from the field, Come immediately and recline at table?
17:8 岂不对他说，你给我预备晚饭，束上带子伺候我；等我吃喝完了，你才可以吃喝么？
Will he not rather say to him, Prepare something that I may dine, and gird yourself and serve me until I eat and drink; and after that you will eat and drink?
17:9 奴仆照所吩咐的去作，主人还谢谢他么？
He does not thank the slave because he did the things which were ordered, does he?
17:10 你们也是如此，作完了一切吩咐你们的事，只当说，我们是无用的奴仆，所作的本是我们应当作的。
So also you, when you do all the things which are ordered you, say, We are unprofitable slaves; we have done what we ought to have done.
17:11 耶稣往耶路撒冷去，经过撒玛利亚和加利利的边界。
And as He was going to Jerusalem, He passed between Samaria and Galilee.
17:12 进入一个村子，有十个患痲疯的人迎面而来，远远的站着，
And as He entered into a certain village, ten leprous men, who stood at a distance, met Him.
17:13 高声说，耶稣，夫子，可怜我们吧！
And they raised their voice, saying, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us!
17:14 耶稣看见，就对他们说，你们去，把身体给祭司察看。他们去的时候，就洁净了。
And when He saw them, He said to them, Go and show yourselves to the priests. And as they went, they were cleansed.
17:15 其中有一个见自己得了医治，就回来大声荣耀神，
And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, returned, glorifying God with a loud voice;
17:16 又俯伏在耶稣脚前感谢祂。这人是撒玛利亚人。
And he fell on his face at His feet, thanking Him. And he was a Samaritan.
17:17 耶稣说，得洁净的不是十个人么？那九个在那里？
And Jesus answered and said, Were not the ten cleansed? But the nine, where are they?
17:18 除了这外族人，再没有别人回来归荣耀与神么？
Were none found who returned to give glory to God except this foreigner?
17:19 就对那人说，起来，走吧，你的信救了你。
And He said to him, Rise up and go; your faith has healed you.
17:20 法利赛人问神的国几时来到，耶稣回答说，神的国来到，不是观察得到的；
And when He was questioned by the Pharisees as to when the kingdom of God was coming, He answered them and said, The kingdom of God does not come
with observation;
17:21 人也不得说，看哪，在这里，或说，在那里；因为看哪，神的国就在你们中间。
Nor will they say, Behold, here it is! or, There! For behold, the kingdom of God is in the midst of you.
17:22 祂又对门徒说，日子将到，你们巴不得看见人子的一个日子，却不得看见。
And He said to the disciples, The days will come when you will long to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and you will not see it.
17:23 人将要对你们说，看哪，在那里，看哪，在这里；你们不要出去，也不要追随。
And they will say to you, Behold, there! Behold, here! Do not go away, nor run after them.
17:24 因为闪电怎样从天这边一闪，直照到天那边，人子在祂的日子也要这样。
For just as lightning flashing from one end of heaven shines to the other end of heaven, so will the Son of Man be in His day.
17:25 只是祂必须先受许多苦，又被这世代弃绝。
But first He must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation.
17:26 挪亚的日子怎样，人子的日子也要怎样；
And even as it happened in the days of Noah, so will it be also in the days of the Son of Man:
986
17:27 人吃喝嫁娶，直到挪亚进方舟的那日，洪水就来，把他们全都毁灭了。
They were eating, they were drinking, they were marrying, they were being given in marriage, until the day in which Noah entered into the ark and the flood
came and destroyed them all.
17:28 又好像罗得的日子，人吃喝买卖，栽种盖造，
Likewise, even as it happened in the days of Lot: they were eating, they were drinking, they were buying, they were selling, they were planting, they were building;
17:29 到罗得出所多玛的那日，就有火与硫磺从天上降下来，把他们全都毁灭了。
But on the day in which Lot went out from Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all.
17:30 人子显现的日子，也要这样。
It will be in the same way on the day in which the Son of Man is revealed.
17:31 当那日，人在房顶上，器具在屋子里，不要下来拿；在田地里的，也照样不要回去。
In that day, he who will be on the housetop and his goods in the house, let him not come down to take them away; and he who is in the field, likewise, let him
not turn back to the things behind.
17:32 你们要回想罗得的妻子。
Remember Lot's wife.
17:33 凡想要保全魂生命的，必丧失魂生命；凡丧失魂生命的，必使魂生命得以存活。
Whoever seeks to preserve his soul-life will lose it, and whoever loses it will preserve it alive.
17:34 我告诉你们，当那一夜，两个人在一个床上，要取去一个，撇下一个。
I tell you, In that night there will be two on one bed; the one will be taken and the other will be left.
17:35 两个女人在一处推磨，要取去一个，撇下一个。
There will be two women grinding together; the one will be taken but the other will be left.
17:36 两个人在田里，要取去一个，撇下一个。
Two men will be in the field; one will be taken and the other will be left.
17:37 门徒说，主阿，在那里有这事？耶稣说，尸首在那里，鹰也必聚集在那里。
And they answered and said to Him, Where, Lord? And He said to them, Where the body is, there also will the vultures be gathered together.
路加福音 Luke 第 18 章
18:1 耶稣又对他们讲一个比喻，是要人常常祷告，不可灰心，说，
And He told them a parable to the end that they ought always to pray and not lose heart,
18:2 某城里有一个审判官，不惧怕神，也不尊重人。
Saying, There was a certain judge in a certain city who did not fear God and did not regard man.
18:3 那城里有个寡妇，常到他那里，说，我有一个对头，求你给我伸冤。
And there was a widow in that city, and she kept coming to him, saying, Avenge me of my opponent.
18:4 他多时不肯，后来心里说，我虽不惧怕神，也不尊重人，
And for a time he would not; but afterward he said within himself, Even though I do not fear God nor regard man,
18:5 只因这寡妇常常搅扰我，我就给她伸冤吧，免得她不断来缠磨我。
Yet because this widow causes me trouble, I will avenge her, lest by continually coming she wear me out.
18:6 主说，你们听这不义的审判官所说的。
And the Lord said, Hear what the unrighteous judge says.
18:7 神的选民昼夜呼吁祂，祂纵然为他们忍耐着，岂不终久给他们伸冤么？
And will not God by all means carry out the avenging of His chosen ones, who cry to Him day and night, though He is long-suffering over them?
18:8 我告诉你们，祂要快快的给他们伸冤了。然而，人子来的时候，在地上找得到信心么？
I tell you that He will carry out their avenging quickly. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will He find faith on the earth?
18:9 耶稣也向那些仗着自己是义人，藐视别人的，说了这个比喻：
And He told this parable also to certain ones who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and despised the rest:
18:10 有两个人上殿里去祷告，一个是法利赛人，另一个是税吏。
Two men went up to the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector.
18:11 法利赛人站着，自言自语的祷告说，神阿，我感谢你，我不像别人，勒索、不义、奸淫，也不像这个税吏。
The Pharisee stood and prayed these things to himself: God, I thank You that I am not like the rest of men -- extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax
collector.
18:12 我一周禁食两次，凡我所得的，都献上十分之一。
I fast twice a week; I give a tenth of all that I get.
18:13 那税吏却远远的站着，连举目望天也不敢，只捶着胸说，神阿，宽恕我这个罪人！
But the tax collector, standing at a distance, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, God, be propitiated to me, the sinner!
18:14 我告诉你们，这人回家去，得称为义，那人却不然。因为凡高抬自己的，必降为卑；降卑自己的，必升为高。
I tell you, This man went down to his house justified rather than that one; for everyone who exalts himself shall be humbled, but he who humbles himself shall be
exalted.
18:15 有人把婴孩也带到耶稣那里，要祂摸他们，门徒看见，就责备那些人。
And they were bringing to Him also their babies that He might touch them. But when the disciples saw this they rebuked them.
18:16 耶稣却叫他们来，说，让小孩子到我这里来，不要禁止他们，因为神的国正是这等人的。
But Jesus called them to Him, saying, Allow the little children to come to Me, and do not forbid them, for of such is the kingdom of God.
18:17 我实在告诉你们，凡不像小孩子一样接受神国的，绝不能进去。
Truly I say to you, Whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a little child shall by no means enter into it.
18:18 有一个官问耶稣说，良善的夫子，我该作什么，才可以承受永远的生命？
And a certain ruler questioned Him, saying, Good Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
987
18:19 耶稣对他说，你为什么称我是良善的？除了神一位以外，再没有良善的。
But Jesus said to him, Why do you call Me good? No one is good except One -- God.
18:20 诫命你是晓得的：“不可奸淫，不可杀人，不可偷盗，不可作假见证，当孝敬父母。”
You know the commandments: "Do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal, do not bear false witness, honor your father and mother.''
18:21 那人说，这一切我从小都遵守了。
And he said, All these things I have kept from my youth.
18:22 耶稣听见了，就对他说，你还缺少一件：要变卖你一切所有的，分给穷人，就必有财宝在诸天之上，你还要来跟从我。
And hearing this, Jesus said to him, Still you lack one thing: all that you have, sell and distribute to the poor, and you will have treasure in the heavens; and come,
follow Me.
18:23 他听见这话，就甚忧愁，因为他极其富足。
But when he heard these things, he became very sorrowful, for he was exceedingly rich.
18:24 耶稣见他甚是忧愁，就说，有钱财的人要进神的国，是何等的难！
And Jesus, seeing that he became very sorrowful, said, How difficult it is for those who have riches to go into the kingdom of God.
18:25 骆驼穿过针的眼，比财主进神的国还容易。
For it is easier for a camel to enter through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
18:26 听见的人说，这样谁能得救？
And those who heard said, Then who can be saved?
18:27 耶稣说，在人所不能的事，在神却能。
But He said, The things that are impossible with men are possible with God.
18:28 彼得说，看哪，我们已经撇下自己所有的，跟从了你。
And Peter said, Behold, we have left our own things and have followed You.
18:29 耶稣说，我实在告诉你们，人为神的国，撇下房屋、或是妻子、弟兄、父母、儿女，
And He said to them, Truly I say to you that there is no one who has left house or wife or brothers or parents or children for the sake of the kingdom of God,
18:30 没有不在今世得许多倍，且要在来世得永远生命的。
Who shall not by all means receive back many times as much in this time, and in the coming age, eternal life.
18:31 耶稣把十二个门徒带到一边，对他们说，看哪，我们上耶路撒冷去，那借着申言者所写一切关于人子的事，都要成就。
And taking the twelve aside, He said to them, Behold we are going up to Jerusalem, and all things which have been written through the prophets regarding the
Son of Man will be accomplished,
18:32 祂将要被交给外邦人，受戏弄，受凌辱，受吐唾，
For He will be delivered up to the Gentiles and will be mocked and outrageously treated and spat upon;
18:33 并被他们鞭打，杀害，第三日祂必复活。
And when they have scourged Him, they will kill Him; and on the third day He will rise.
18:34 这些事门徒一样也不领悟，这话对他们是隐藏的，所说的事，他们都不晓得。
And they understood none of these things, and this saying was hidden from them, and they did not know what was being said.
18:35 耶稣将近耶利哥的时候，有一个瞎子坐在路旁讨饭。
And as He drew near to Jericho, a certain blind man was sitting by the road, begging.
18:36 他听见群众经过，就问是什么事。
And hearing a crowd going by, he inquired what this might be.
18:37 他们告诉他，是拿撒勒人耶稣经过。
And they told him that Jesus the Nazarene was passing by.
18:38 他就喊着说，大卫的子孙耶稣，可怜我吧！
And he shouted, saying, Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!
18:39 在前头走的人就责备他，叫他安静下来；他却越发喊着：大卫的子孙，可怜我吧！
And those going before rebuked him so that he would be silent, but he cried out much more, Son of David, have mercy on me!
18:40 耶稣就站住，吩咐人把他领过来，到了跟前，就问他说，
And Jesus, standing still, commanded that he be led to Him. And when he drew near, He questioned him,
18:41 你要我为你作什么？他说，主阿，我要能看见。
What do you want Me to do for you? And he said, Lord, that I may receive my sight!
18:42 耶稣说，你可以看见，你的信救了你。
And Jesus said to him, Receive your sight; your faith has healed you.
18:43 瞎子立刻看见了，就跟随耶稣，荣耀神。众百姓看见了，也都把赞美归与神。
And instantly he received his sight and followed Him, glorifying God. And all the people, seeing it, gave praise to God.
路加福音 Luke 第 19 章
19:1 耶稣进了耶利哥，正经过的时候，
And He entered and was passing through Jericho.
19:2 看哪，有一个人名叫撒该，是个税吏长，又很富足。
And behold, there was a man whose name was called Zaccheus; and he was a chief tax collector, and he was rich.
19:3 他想要看看耶稣是谁，只因人多，他的身量又矮，所以不能看见。
And he was seeking to see Jesus, who He was, and could not because of the crowd, for he was small in stature.
19:4 于是先跑到前头，爬上一棵桑树，要看耶稣，因为耶稣就要从那里经过。
And he ran on ahead and climbed up in a sycamore tree in order to see Him, for He was about to pass through that way.
19:5 耶稣到了那地方，往上一看，对他说，撒该，快下来，今天我必须住在你家里。
And as He came to the place, Jesus looked up and said to him, Zaccheus, hurry and come down, for today I must stay in your house.
988
19:6 他就急忙下来，欢欢喜喜的接待耶稣。
And he hurried and came down, and received Him, rejoicing.
19:7 众人看见，都纷纷的唧咕议论说，祂竟然进到罪人家里去住宿。
And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying, He has gone in to lodge with a sinful man.
19:8 撒该站着，对主说，主阿，看哪，我把家业的一半给穷人，我若讹诈了谁，就还他四倍。
And Zaccheus stood and said to the Lord, Behold, the half of my possessions, Lord, I give to the poor, and if I have taken anything from anyone by false
accusation, I restore four times as much.
19:9 耶稣说，今天救恩到了这家，因为他也是亚伯拉罕的子孙。
And Jesus said to him, Today salvation has come to this house, because he also is a son of Abraham.
19:10 人子来，是要寻找拯救失丧的人。
For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which is lost.
19:11 众人正听这些话的时候，耶稣因为将近耶路撒冷，又因他们以为神的国快要显现出来，就再说了一个比喻，
And as they were listening to these things, He spoke further a parable, because He was near Jerusalem and they supposed that the kingdom of God was to
appear immediately.
19:12 说，有一个贵胄往远方去，要得国回来，
He said therefore, A certain man of noble birth went to a distant country to receive for himself a kingdom and to return.
19:13 便叫了他的十个奴仆来，交给他们十锭银子，对他们说，你们去作生意，直等我回来。
And he called ten of his own slaves and gave them ten minas, and he said to them, Do business until I come.
19:14 他本国的人却恨他，打发使者随后去说，我们不愿意这个人作我们的王。
But his citizens hated him and sent an envoy after him, saying, We do not want this man to reign over us.
19:15 他既得国回来，就吩咐叫那些领银子的奴仆来，要知道他们作生意赚了多少。
And when he came back, having received the kingdom, he commanded that those slaves to whom he had given the money should be called to him so that he
might know what they had gained by doing business.
19:16 头一个上来说，主阿，你的一锭银子已经另赚了十锭。
And the first appeared, saying, Master, your mina has gained ten minas.
19:17 主人说，好，良善的奴仆，你在最小的事上既是忠信的，可以有权柄管十座城。
And he said to him, Well done, good slave. Because you have become faithful in the least, have authority over ten cities.
19:18 第二个来说，主阿，你的一锭银子已经赚了五锭。
And the second came, saying, Your mina, master, has made five minas.
19:19 主人说，你也可以管五座城。
And he said to this one as well, And you, be over five cities.
19:20 又一个来说，主阿，看哪，你的一锭银子，我把它包在手巾里存着。
And the other came, saying, Master, behold your mina, which I kept laid away in a handkerchief;
19:21 我原是怕你，因为你是严厉的人；没有存放的要提取，没有播种的要收割。
For I was afraid of you, because you are a harsh man: you withdraw what you did not deposit, and you reap what you did not sow.
19:22 主人对他说，你这恶仆，我要凭你的口，定你的罪；你既知道我是严厉的人，没有存放的要提取，没有播种的要收割，
He said to him, Out of your mouth I will judge you, wicked slave. You knew that I am a harsh man, withdrawing what I did not deposit and reaping what I did not
sow.
19:23 为什么不把我的银子交给银行，到我来的时候，可以连本带利收回？
Why then did you not put my money in the bank, and when I came, I would have collected it with interest?
19:24 就对旁边站着的人说，从他夺过这一锭来，给那有十锭的。
And to those standing by he said, Take the mina away from him, and give it to the one who has the ten minas.
19:25 他们说，主阿，他已经有十锭了。
And they said to him, Master, he has ten minas.
19:26 主人说，我告诉你们，凡有的，还要给他；没有的，连他所有的，也要从他夺去。
I tell you that to everyone who has, more shall be given, but from him who does not have, even that which he has shall be taken away.
19:27 至于我那些仇敌，就是不要我作他们王的，把他们拉到这里，在我面前杀了吧。
However, these enemies of mine, who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here and slay them before me.
19:28 耶稣说完了这些话，就在前面走，上耶路撒冷去。
And having said these things, He went on before them, going up to Jerusalem.
19:29 将近伯法其和伯大尼，在一座山，名叫橄榄山那里，就打发两个门徒，说，
And as He drew near to Bethphage and Bethany, near the mount which is called Olivet, He sent two of the disciples,
19:30 你们往对面村子去，进去的时候，必看见一匹驴驹拴在那里，是从来没有人骑过的，把它解开牵来。
Saying, Go into the village opposite you, in which, as you are entering, you will find a colt tied, on which no man has ever yet sat; untie it and lead it here.
19:31 若有人问，为什么解它？你们就这样说，因为主需要它。
And if anyone asks you, Why are you untying it? thus shall you say, Because the Lord has need of it.
19:32 打发的人去了，所遇见的正如耶稣所说的。
And those who were sent went away and found it even as He had told them.
19:33 他们解驴驹的时候，主人问他们说，你们为什么解驴驹？
And as they were untying the colt, its masters said to them, Why are you untying the colt?
19:34 他们说，因为主需要它。
And they said, Because the Lord has need of it.
19:35 他们把驴驹牵到耶稣那里，把自己的衣服搭在上面，扶着耶稣骑上。
And they brought it to Jesus. And when they had thrown their garments on the colt, they put Jesus on it.
19:36 走的时候，众人把自己的衣服铺在路上。
And as He went, they spread their own garments in the road.
989
19:37 当祂临近耶路撒冷，正下橄榄山的时候，全群的门徒因所见过的一切异能，就欢乐起来，大声赞美神，说，
And as He was already drawing near to the descent of the Mount of Olives, all the multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for
all the works of power which they had seen,
19:38 在主名里来的王，是当受颂赞的！在天上有和平，在至高之处有荣耀！
Saying, Blessed is the King who comes in the name of the Lord! Peace in heaven and glory in the highest!
19:39 群众中有几个法利赛人对耶稣说，夫子，责备你的门徒吧。
And some of the Pharisees from the crowd said to Him, Teacher, rebuke Your disciples.
19:40 耶稣回答说，我告诉你们，若是他们默不作声，这些石头都要喊叫起来！
And He answered and said, I tell you, If these shall be silent, the stones will cry out.
19:41 耶稣临近的时候，看见那城，就为她哭泣，说，
And as He drew near, He saw the city and wept over it,
19:42 巴不得你在这日子，知道关系你平安的事。无奈这事现今在你眼前是隐藏的。
Saying, If you knew in this day, even you, the things that are for your peace! But now they have been hidden from your eyes.
19:43 因为日子将到，你的仇敌要给你筑起土垒，周围环绕你，四面困住你，
For the days will come upon you when your enemies will throw up a rampart before you, and will encircle you, and will press you in on every side,
19:44 并要把你铲平，摔毁你里面的儿女，不容你里面有一块石头留在石头上，因你不知道眷顾你的时候。
And they will level you to the ground and your children within you, and they will not leave a stone upon a stone in you, because you did not know the time of your
visitation.
19:45 耶稣进了殿，就赶出作买卖的人，
And He entered into the temple and began to cast out those who were selling,
19:46 对他们说，经上记着，“我的殿必作祷告的殿。”你们倒使它成为贼窝了。
Saying to them, It is written, "And My house shall be a house of prayer,'' but you have made it a den of robbers.
19:47 耶稣天天在殿里施教。但祭司长、经学家和百姓的首领，都想要除灭祂，
And He taught daily in the temple. But the chief priests and the scribes and the leaders of the people sought to destroy Him;
19:48 只是寻不出可行的，因为众百姓都紧围着听祂。
Yet they could not find anything that they might do, for all the people were hanging upon Him, listening.
路加福音 Luke 第 20 章
20:1 有一天，耶稣在殿里教训百姓，传福音的时候，祭司长和经学家同长老上前来，
And on one of the days, as He was teaching the people in the temple and announcing the good news, the chief priests and the scribes with the elders came
upon Him,
20:2 对祂发言说，告诉我们，你仗着什么权柄作这些事？给你这权柄的是谁？
And spoke, saying to Him, Tell us by what authority you do these things, or who is the one who gave you this authority?
20:3 耶稣回答他们说，我也要问你们一句话，你们且告诉我，
And He answered and said to them, I also will ask you one thing, and you tell Me:
20:4 约翰的浸，是从天上来的，还是从人来的？
The baptism of John, was it from heaven or from men?
20:5 他们就彼此商议说，我们若说从天上来的，祂必说，你们为什么不信他？
And they reasoned together among themselves, saying, If we say, From heaven, He will say, Why did you not believe him?
20:6 若说从人来的，众百姓都要用石头打死我们，因为他们深信约翰是申言者。
But if we say, From men, all the people will stone us to death, for they are persuaded that John was a prophet.
20:7 于是回答说，不知道是从那里来的。
And they answered that they did not know where it was from.
20:8 耶稣便对他们说，我也不告诉你们，我仗着什么权柄作这些事。
And Jesus said to them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.
20:9 耶稣就对百姓说这个比喻：有人栽了一个葡萄园，租给园户，就到外国去了很久。
And He began to speak to the people this parable: A certain man planted a vineyard and leased it out to vinedressers and went abroad for a considerable time.
20:10 到了时候，打发一个奴仆到园户那里，叫他们把葡萄园的果子交给他；园户竟打了他，叫他空手回去。
And at the proper time he sent a slave to the vinedressers so that they might give him some of the fruit of the vineyard; but the vinedressers beat him and sent
him away empty-handed.
20:11 园主再打发另一个奴仆去，他们也打了他，并且凌辱他，叫他空手回去。
And he went on to send another slave, but they beat that one also, and dishonored him, and sent him away empty-handed.
20:12 园主又打发第三个再去，他们也打伤了他，把他推出去。
And he went on to send a third, but that one also they wounded and threw out.
20:13 葡萄园的主人说，我怎么办？我要打发我的儿子，就是我所爱的去，或者他们会尊敬他。
And the master of the vineyard said, What shall I do? I will send my son, the beloved; they will probably respect this one.
20:14 不料，园户看见他，就彼此议论说，这是承受产业的，我们杀他吧，使产业归与我们。
But when the vinedressers saw him, they reasoned with one another, saying, This is the heir; let us kill him that the inheritance may become ours.
20:15 于是把他推出葡萄园外杀了。这样，葡萄园的主人要怎样处治他们？
And they threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. What then will the master of the vineyard do to them?
20:16 他要来除灭这些园户，将葡萄园租给别人。众人听见了，就说，千万不可。
He will come and destroy these vinedressers and will give the vineyard to others. And when they heard this, they said, May it never happen!
20:17 耶稣看着他们说，那么，经上写着，“匠人所弃的石头，已成了房角的头块石头。”这是什么意思？
But He looked at them, and said, What then is this that is written, "The stone which the builders rejected, this has become the head of the corner''?
990
20:18 凡跌在那石头上的，必要跌碎；那石头掉在谁身上，就要把谁砸得粉碎，簸散如糠秕。
Everyone who falls on that stone shall be broken to pieces; but on whomever it falls, it shall crush him to powder and scatter him like chaff.
20:19 经学家和祭司长看出这比喻是指着他们说的，当时就想要下手拿祂，只是惧怕百姓。
And the scribes and the chief priests sought to lay hands on Him in that hour; yet they feared the people, for they perceived that it was with them in view that He
spoke this parable.
20:20 于是他们窥探耶稣，打发奸细装作公正人，要抓祂的话柄，好将祂交在总督的管治和权柄之下。
And they watched Him closely and sent spies who feigned themselves to be righteous, in order that they might lay hold on some word of His, so as to deliver Him
up to the rule and authority of the governor.
20:21 奸细就问祂说，夫子，我们知道你所说所教的都正确，也不取人的外貌，乃是诚诚实实教导神的道路。
And they questioned Him, saying, Teacher, we know that You speak and teach correctly, and do not accept man's person, but teach the way of God in truth.
20:22 我们纳税给该撒，可以不可以？
Is it lawful for us to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?
20:23 耶稣看出他们的诡诈，就对他们说，
But He perceived their craftiness and said to them,
20:24 拿一个银币给我看，这银币有谁的像和号？他们说，该撒的。
Show Me a denarius. Whose image and inscription does it have? And they said, Caesar's.
20:25 耶稣说，这样，把该撒的物归给该撒，把神的物归给神。
And He said to them, Therefore render the things that are Caesar's to Caesar, and the things that are God's to God.
20:26 他们当着百姓，不能抓到祂的话柄，又希奇祂的应对，就静默下来。
And they were not able to lay hold of a saying of His in the presence of the people; and marveling at His answer, they kept silent.
20:27 撒都该人向来否认复活，他们中间有几个进前来，问耶稣说，
And some of the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to Him and questioned Him,
20:28 夫子，摩西为我们写着说，人的哥哥若有妻无子就死了，他兄弟当娶他的妻，为哥哥立后。
Saying, Teacher, Moses wrote for us, If anyone's brother has a wife and dies, and this one is childless, his brother should take the wife and raise up seed to his
brother.
20:29 有兄弟七人，第一个娶了妻，没有孩子就死了，
There were then seven brothers. And the first took a wife and died childless;
20:30 第二个、第三个也娶过她；
And the second;
20:31 那七个都是这样，没有留下孩子就死了。
And the third took her; and similarly the seven also did not leave children and died.
20:32 最后，妇人也死了。
Finally the woman also died.
20:33 这样，在复活的时候，这妇人是他们那一个的妻子？因为他们七个都娶过她。
In the resurrection, therefore, which one's wife does the woman become? For the seven had her as wife.
20:34 耶稣对他们说，今世之子有娶有嫁，
And Jesus said to them, The sons of this age marry and are given in marriage,
20:35 惟有算为配得那时代，并配得从死人中复活的，也不娶也不嫁；
But those who are counted worthy to obtain that age and the resurrection from the dead neither marry nor are given in marriage;
20:36 因为他们不能再死，和天使一样；他们既是复活之子，就为神的儿子。
For neither can they die anymore, for they are equal to angels, and they are sons of God, being sons of the resurrection.
20:37 至于死人复活，甚至摩西在荆棘篇上，称主为亚伯拉罕的神，以撒的神，雅各的神时，就指示明白了。
But that the dead are raised, even Moses disclosed in the section concerning the bush, when he calls the Lord the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the
God of Jacob.
20:38 神不是死人的神，乃是活人的神，因为在祂，人都是活的。
Now He is not the God of the dead, but of the living, for to Him all men are living.
20:39 有几个经学家应声说，夫子，你说得好。
And some of the scribes answered and said, Teacher, You have spoken well.
20:40 以后他们不敢再问祂什么。
For they no longer dared to question Him about anything.
20:41 耶稣对他们说，人怎么说基督是大卫的子孙？
And He said to them, How is it that they say that the Christ is David's son?
20:42 诗篇上，大卫自己说，“主对我主说，你坐在我的右边，
For David himself says in the book of Psalms, "The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at My right hand,
20:43 等我使你的仇敌作你的脚凳。”
Until I set Your enemies as a footstool for Your feet.''
20:44 大卫既称祂为主，祂怎么又是大卫的子孙？
David therefore calls Him Lord, and how is He his son?
20:45 众百姓听的时候，耶稣对门徒说，
And as all the people were listening, He said to His disciples,
20:46 你们要提防经学家，他们好穿长袍游行，喜爱人在市场上问他们安，又喜爱会堂里的高位，筵席上的首座；
Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes, and love greetings in the marketplaces and chief seats in the synagogues and places of honor at
the dinners,
20:47 他们侵吞寡妇的家产，假意作很长的祷告。这些人要受更重的刑罚。
Who devour widows' houses, and for a pretense make long prayers. These shall receive greater judgment.
991
路加福音 Luke 第 21 章
21:1 耶稣抬头观看，见财主把他们的礼物投在库里。
And He looked up and saw the rich casting their gifts into the treasury.
21:2 又见一个赤贫的寡妇，投了两个小钱，
And He saw a certain impoverished widow casting there two lepta.
21:3 就说，我实在告诉你们，这穷寡妇所投的，比众人更多；
And He said, Truly I tell you that this poor widow has cast in more than all of them,
21:4 因为他们都是从自己的富余中，把一些投在礼物中，但这寡妇是从自己的缺乏中，把她一切养生的都投上了。
For all these out of their surplus have cast in something into the gifts, but she out of her lack has cast in all the living that she had.
21:5 有人谈论圣殿是用美石和供物装饰的，
And as some were speaking about the temple, that it was adorned with beautiful stones and consecrated offerings, He said,
21:6 耶稣就说，你们所看见的这一切，将来日子到了，没有一块石头留在石头上，不被拆毁的。
As for these things which you are looking at, the days will come in which there will not be left a stone upon a stone which will not be thrown down.
21:7 他们问祂说，夫子，什么时候会有这些事？这些事将要发生的时候，有什么兆头？
And they questioned Him, saying, Teacher, when therefore will these things be? And what will be the sign when these things are about to take place?
21:8 祂说，你们要谨慎，免得受了迷惑；因为将来要有许多人冒我的名来，说，我是基督，又说，时候近了。你们不要跟从他们。
And He said, See that you are not led astray, for many will come in My name, saying, I am the Christ! and, The time has drawn near! Do not go after them.
21:9 你们听见打仗和动乱的事，不要惊惶；因为这些事必须先发生，只是末期不会立刻就到。
And when you hear of wars and revolutions, do not be terrified, for these things must take place first; but the end does not come immediately.
21:10 当时耶稣对他们说，民要起来攻打民，国要起来攻打国。
Then He said to them, Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom;
21:11 地要大大震动，到处必有饥荒和瘟疫，又有恐怖的事，以及从天上来的大神迹。
And there will be great earthquakes, and in various places famines and pestilences; and there will be terrors and great signs from heaven.
21:12 但这一切的事以先，人要下手拿住你们，逼迫你们，把你们交给会堂，并且收在监里，又要为我的名拉你们到君王和官长面前。
But before all these things they will lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and prisons, bringing you before kings and
governors for the sake of My name.
21:13 这些事终必成为你们的见证。
It will turn out to you for a testimony.
21:14 所以你们要心里定意，不要事先预备怎样分诉。
Settle it therefore in your hearts not to take thought beforehand how to reply in defense,
21:15 因为我必赐你们口才和智慧，是一切敌对你们的人所敌不住，驳不倒的。
For I will give you a mouth and wisdom which all those opposing you will not be able to resist or refute.
21:16 你们也要被父母、弟兄、亲族、朋友出卖，你们也有被他们害死的。
And you will be delivered up even by parents and brothers and relatives and friends, and they will put some of you to death.
21:17 你们还要因我的名，被众人恨恶，
And you will be hated by all because of My name,
21:18 然而你们连一根头发，也绝不会损坏。
Yet a hair of your head shall by no means perish.
21:19 你们要凭忍耐，得着你们的魂。
In your endurance you will possess your souls.
21:20 你们看见耶路撒冷被军队围困，就可知道她的荒凉近了。
But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that her desolation has drawn near.
21:21 那时，在犹太的，要逃到山上；在城里的，要出来；在乡下的，不要进城。
Then let those in Judea flee to the mountains, and let those in her midst get out, and let not those in the country enter into her,
21:22 因为这是报应的日子，使经上所写的一切都得应验。
Because these are days of vengeance, that all the things written may be fulfilled.
21:23 当那些日子，怀孕的和乳养孩子的有祸了。因为将有大艰难降在这地，也有震怒临到这百姓。
Woe to those who are pregnant and to those nursing babies in those days, for there will be great distress upon the land and wrath to this people.
21:24 他们要倒在刀刃之下，又被掳到各国去，耶路撒冷要被外邦人践踏，直到外邦人的时期满了。
And they will fall by the edge of the sword and will be led captive into all the nations; and Jerusalem will be trampled by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles
are fulfilled.
21:25 日月星辰将有异兆，地上的邦国也有困苦，因海和波涛的响声，就惊惶失措。
And there will be signs in the sun and moon and stars, and upon the earth anguish of nations in perplexity at the roaring of the sea and the billows,
21:26 人由于惧怕，并等待那将要临到天下的事，都吓昏了，因为天势都要震动。
Men fainting from fear and expectation of the things coming upon the inhabited earth, for the powers of the heavens will be shaken.
21:27 那时，他们要看见人子，带着能力和大荣耀，在云中来临。
And then they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.
21:28 一有这些事，你们就当挺身昂首，因为你们的得赎近了。
And when these things begin to happen, stand erect and lift up your heads, because your redemption is drawing near.
21:29 耶稣又对他们说了一个比喻：你们看无花果树和各样的树，
And He told them a parable: Look at the fig tree and all the trees.
21:30 它们发芽的时候，你们一看见，自己就知道夏天近了。
As soon as they sprout leaves, you see it and know of yourselves that the summer is already near.
21:31 照样，你们几时看见这些事发生，也该知道神的国近了。
So also you, when you see these things happening, know that the kingdom of God is near.
992
21:32 我实在告诉你们，这一代还没有过去，这一切事都要发生。
Truly I tell you that this generation shall by no means pass away until all things happen.
21:33 天地要过去，但我的话绝不能过去。
Heaven and earth shall pass away, but My words shall by no means pass away.
21:34 你们要小心，恐怕因酗酒、沉醉并今生的思虑，累住你们的心，那日子就如同网罗忽然临到你们，
But take heed to yourselves lest perhaps your hearts be weighed down with debauchery and drunkenness and the anxieties of life, and that day come upon you
suddenly as a snare.
21:35 因为那日子要这样临到全地面上一切居住的人。
For it will come in upon all those dwelling on the face of all the earth.
21:36 但你们要时时儆醒，常常祈求，使你们得胜，能逃避这一切要发生的事，得以站立在人子面前。
But be watchful at every time, beseeching that you would prevail to escape all these things which are about to happen and stand before the Son of Man.
21:37 耶稣每日在殿里施教，每夜出城，在一座山，名叫橄榄山住宿。
Now during the day He was in the temple teaching, but during the night He went out and stayed on the mountain called Olivet.
21:38 众百姓清早到殿里耶稣那里去听祂。
And all the people would come early in the morning to Him in the temple to hear Him.
路加福音 Luke 第 22 章
22:1 除酵节，又名逾越节近了。
Now the Feast of Unleavened Bread, which is called the Passover, was drawing near.
22:2 祭司长和经学家设法怎样才能除掉耶稣，因为他们惧怕百姓。
And the chief priests and the scribes were seeking a way to do away with Him, for they feared the people.
22:3 这时，撒但进了那称为加略人的犹大里面，他本是十二数中的一个。
And Satan entered into Judas who was called Iscariot and was of the number of the twelve.
22:4 他去和祭司长并守殿官商量，怎样可以把耶稣交给他们。
And he went away and conferred with the chief priests and officers as to how he might deliver Him up to them.
22:5 他们欢喜，就约定给他银子。
And they rejoiced and promised to give him money.
22:6 他完全应允了，就寻找机会，要趁群众不在的时候，把耶稣交给他们。
And he consented and sought opportunity to deliver Him up to them apart from the crowd.
22:7 除酵节，须宰逾越羊羔的那一天到了。
And the day of Unleavened Bread came, on which the passover had to be sacrificed.
22:8 耶稣打发彼得和约翰，说，你们去为我们预备逾越节的筵席，给我们吃。
And He sent Peter and John, saying, Go and prepare the passover for us, so that we may eat it.
22:9 他们问祂说，你要我们在那里预备？
And they said to Him, Where do You want us to prepare it?
22:10 耶稣说，看哪，你们进了城，必有人拿着一瓶水，迎面而来，你们要跟着他，到他所进的屋子里去，
And He told them, Behold, as you are entering into the city, a man carrying an earthen jar of water will meet you. Follow him into the house which he enters.
22:11 对那家的主人说，夫子说，我同门徒可以吃逾越节筵席的客房在那里？
And you shall say to the master of the house, The Teacher says to you, Where is the guest room where I may eat the passover with My disciples?
22:12 那人必指给你们摆设整齐的一间大楼房，你们就在那里预备。
And that one will show you a large upper room furnished; prepare there.
22:13 他们去了，所遇见的正如耶稣对他们所说的，他们就预备了逾越节的筵席。
And they left and found it even as He had told them, and they prepared the passover.
22:14 时候到了，耶稣坐席，使徒也和祂同坐。
And when the hour came, He reclined at table, and the apostles with Him.
22:15 祂对他们说，我切愿在受害以先，同你们吃这逾越节的筵席。
And He said to them, With desire I have desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer,
22:16 我告诉你们，我绝不再吃这筵席，直到它成就在神的国里。
For I tell you that I shall by no means eat it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
22:17 耶稣接过杯来，祝谢了，说，你们拿这个，大家分着喝。
And He received a cup and gave thanks and said, Take this and divide it among yourselves;
22:18 我告诉你们，从今以后，我绝不喝这葡萄树的产品，直等神的国来到。
For I tell you, I shall by no means drink from now on of the product of the vine until the kingdom of God comes.
22:19 又拿起饼来，祝谢了，就擘开，递给他们，说，这是我的身体，为你们舍的，你们要如此行，为的是记念我。
And He took a loaf and gave thanks, and He broke it and gave it to them, saying, This is My body which is being given for you; do this in remembrance of Me.
22:20 饭后，也照样拿起杯来，说，这杯是用我血所立的新约，这血是为你们流出来的。
And similarly the cup after they had dined, saying, This cup is the new covenant established in My blood, which is being poured out for you.
22:21 看哪，那出卖我之人的手，与我一同在桌子上。
But behold, the hand of the one betraying Me is with Me at the table.
22:22 人子固然要照所预定的去世，但出卖人子的有祸了。
For the Son of Man is going according to what has been determined, but woe to that man through whom He is betrayed!
22:23 他们就彼此究问，他们中间是那一个要作这事。
And they began to discuss among themselves who then of them it was who was about to do this.
22:24 还有，门徒中间也起了争论，他们中间那一个可算为大。
993
And a contention also occurred among them as to which of them seemed to be greatest.
22:25 耶稣对他们说，外邦人有君王为主治理他们，那掌权管辖他们的称为恩主。
And He said to them, The kings of the Gentiles lord it over them, and those who have authority over them are called benefactors.
22:26 但你们不是这样；反倒你们中间为大的，要像年幼的；为首领的，要像服事人的。
But you shall not be so; but let the greatest among you become like the youngest, and the one who leads like the one who serves.
22:27 是谁为大？是坐席的，还是服事人的？不是坐席的大么？然而我在你们中间，如同服事人的。
For who is greater, the one who reclines at table or the one who serves? Is it not the one who reclines at table? But I am in your midst as the one who serves.
22:28 在我的试炼中，始终和我同在的就是你们。
But you are those who have remained with Me throughout My trials.
22:29 我将国赐给你们，正如我父赐给我一样，
And I appoint to you, even as My Father has appointed to Me, a kingdom,
22:30 叫你们在我国里，坐在我的席上吃喝，并且坐在宝座上，审判以色列十二个支派。
That you may eat and drink at My table in My kingdom; and you will sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
22:31 西门，西门，看哪，撒但想要得着你们，好筛你们像麦子一样。
Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has asked to have you all to sift you as wheat.
22:32 但我已经为你祈求，叫你不至于失了信心，你回转过来，要坚固你的弟兄。
But I have made petition concerning you that your faith would not fail; and you, once you have turned again, establish your brothers.
22:33 彼得说，主阿，我已经预备好，去同你下监，同你受死。
And he said to Him, Lord, I am ready to go with You both to prison and to death.
22:34 耶稣说，彼得，我告诉你，今日鸡还没有叫，你要三次否认你认得我。
But He said, I tell you, Peter, a rooster will not crow today until you deny three times that you know Me.
22:35 耶稣又对他们说，我差你们出去，没有带钱袋、口袋和鞋，那时你们缺乏什么没有？他们说，没有。
And He said to them, When I sent you without purse and bag and sandals, you did not lack anything, did you? And they said, Nothing.
22:36 祂说，但如今有钱袋的可以带着，有口袋的也可以带着，没有刀的，要卖衣服买刀。
And He said to them, But now, let him who has a purse take it, likewise also a bag; and he who has no sword, let him sell his garment and buy one.
22:37 我告诉你们，经上写着，“祂被列在不法的人当中，”这话必须应验在我身上，因为那关系我的事，就要成就了。
For I tell you that this which is written must be accomplished in Me, "And He was counted with the lawless.'' For indeed that which concerns Me has its fulfillment.
22:38 他们说，主阿，看哪，这里有两把刀。耶稣对他们说，够了。
And they said, Lord, behold, here are two swords. And He said to them, It is enough.
22:39 耶稣出来，照例往橄榄山去，门徒也跟随祂。
And He came out and went according to His custom to the Mount of Olives; and the disciples also followed Him.
22:40 到了那地方，就对他们说，你们要祷告，免得入了试诱。
And when He came to the place, He said to them, Pray that you do not enter into temptation.
22:41 于是离开他们，约有扔一块石头那样远，屈膝祷告说，
And He withdrew from them about a stone's throw, and He knelt down and prayed,
22:42 父阿，你若愿意，就把这杯从我撤去，然而不要成就我的意思，只要成就你的意思。
Saying, Father, if You are willing, remove this cup from Me; yet, not My will, but Yours be done.
22:43 有一位天使从天上向祂显现，加给祂力量。
And an angel from heaven appeared to Him, strengthening Him.
22:44 耶稣痛苦挣扎，祷告更加恳切，汗珠如大血点滴落在地上。
And being in agony He prayed more earnestly, and His sweat became like great drops of blood falling down upon the ground.
22:45 祷告完了，就起来，到门徒那里，见他们因为忧愁都睡着了，
And when He rose up from prayer and came to the disciples, He found them sleeping from sorrow,
22:46 就对他们说，你们为什么睡觉？起来祷告，免得入了试诱。
And He said to them, Why are you sleeping? Rise up and pray that you may not enter into temptation.
22:47 耶稣还在说话的时候，看哪，来了一群人，那十二个门徒中名叫犹大的，走在他们前面，就近耶稣，要与祂亲嘴。
While He was still speaking, behold, a crowd came, and he who is called Judas, one of the twelve, was going before them and drew near to Jesus to kiss Him.
22:48 耶稣对他说，犹大，你用亲嘴的暗号出卖人子么？
But Jesus said to him, Judas, are you betraying the Son of Man with a kiss?
22:49 周围的人看见要发生的事，就说，主阿，我们用刀砍可以不可以？
And those around Him, seeing what would happen, said, Lord, shall we strike with the sword?
22:50 其中有一个人，将大祭司的奴仆砍了一刀，削掉了他的右耳。
And a certain one of them struck the slave of the high priest and took off his right ear.
22:51 耶稣说，由他们到这个地步吧。就摸那人的耳朵，把他治好了。
But Jesus answered and said, Let them go this far. And touching his ear, He healed him.
22:52 耶稣对那些来捉祂的祭司长、守殿官和长老说，你们带着刀棒出来捉我，如同捉强盗么？
And Jesus said to the chief priests and officers of the temple and elders who had come up against Him, Have you come out as against a robber with swords and
clubs?
22:53 我天天同你们在殿里，你们并没有下手捉我。但这是你们的时候，黑暗掌权了。
While I was with you day by day in the temple, you did not stretch out your hands against Me. But this is your hour and the authority of darkness.
22:54 他们捉住耶稣，把祂带到大祭司的宅里。彼得远远的跟着。
And having arrested Him, they led Him away, and brought Him into the house of the high priest. But Peter followed at a distance.
22:55 他们在院子当中生了火，一同坐着，彼得也坐在他们中间。
And when they had lit a fire in the middle of the courtyard and sat down together, Peter sat among them.
22:56 有一个使女，看见彼得坐在火光里，就定睛看他，说，这个人也是同祂一起的。
And a certain servant girl, seeing him seated in the light of the fire, looked intently at him and said, This man was with Him too.
994
22:57 彼得却不承认，说，女子，我不认得祂。
But he denied it, saying, I do not know Him, woman.
22:58 又过了不久，另有一位看见他，说，你也是属他们的。彼得说，你这个人，我不是。
And after a short time, another person, seeing him, said, You also are one of them. But Peter said, Man, I am not!
22:59 约过了一小时，另有一个人极力的说，他也确是同那人一起的，因为他也是加利利人。
And after about one hour had passed, another one insisted, saying, Surely this man was also with Him, for he is also a Galilean.
22:60 彼得说，你这个人，我不知道你说的是什么。他正说话的时候，即时鸡就叫了。
But Peter said, Man, I do not know what you are saying. And instantly, while he was still speaking, a rooster crowed.
22:61 主转过身来看彼得，彼得便想起主对他所说的话：今日鸡叫以前，你要三次否认我。
And the Lord turned and looked at Peter, and Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how He had said to him, Before a rooster crows today, you will deny Me
three times.
22:62 他就到外面去痛哭。
And he went outside and wept bitterly.
22:63 看守耶稣的人戏弄祂，打祂，
And the men who were holding Him mocked Him and beat Him.
22:64 又蒙着祂的眼，问祂说，申言吧，打你的是谁？
And they blindfolded Him and questioned Him, saying, Prophesy! Who is the one who hit You?
22:65 他们还用许多别的话亵渎祂。
And they said many other things against Him, blaspheming.
22:66 天一亮，民间的众长老，连祭司长带经学家都聚集，把耶稣带到他们的议会里，说，
And when it became day, the assembly of the elders of the people, both chief priests and scribes, were gathered together, and they led Him away to their
Sanhedrin, saying,
22:67 你若是基督，就告诉我们。耶稣对他们说，我若告诉你们，你们也绝不信；
If You are the Christ, tell us. But He said to them, If I tell you, you shall by no means believe;
22:68 我若问你们，你们也绝不回答。
And if I ask you, you shall by no means answer.
22:69 从今以后，人子要坐在神大能者的右边。
But from now on the Son of Man will be seated at the right hand of the power of God.
22:70 他们都说，这样，你是神的儿子么？耶稣对他们说，你们说的对，我是。
And they all said, Are You then the Son of God? And He said to them, You say rightly that I am.
22:71 他们说，我们何需再用见证？因为我们亲自从祂口中听见了。
And they said, What further need do we have of testimony? For we have heard it ourselves from His mouth.
路加福音 Luke 第 23 章
23:1 他们全体都起来，把耶稣带到彼拉多面前。
And the entire multitude of them rose up and led Him before Pilate.
23:2 就控告祂说，我们查出这人煽惑我们的人民，禁止纳税给该撒，且说自己是基督，是王。
And they began to accuse Him, saying, We found this man perverting our nation and forbidding people to pay taxes to Caesar, and saying that He Himself is
Christ, a King.
23:3 彼拉多问耶稣说，你是犹太人的王么？耶稣回答说，你说的是。
And Pilate asked Him, saying, Are You the King of the Jews? And answering him, He said, It is as you say.
23:4 彼拉多对祭司长和群众说，我查不出这人有什么该定罪的。
And Pilate said to the chief priests and the crowds, I find no fault in this man.
23:5 但他们越发极力的说，祂煽动百姓，在犹太遍地施教，从加利利起，直到这里。
But they were vehement, saying, He stirs up the people, teaching throughout the whole of Judea, beginning from Galilee even to this place.
23:6 彼拉多一听见，就问这人是加利利人不是。
And when Pilate heard this, he asked whether the man was a Galilean.
23:7 既晓得耶稣属希律所管，就把祂送到希律那里去，那些日子希律也正在耶路撒冷。
And when he realized that He was of Herod's jurisdiction, he sent Him up to Herod, who also himself was in Jerusalem in those days.
23:8 希律看见耶稣，就甚欢喜，因为听见过祂的事，久已想要见祂，并且指望看祂行个神迹。
And when Herod saw Jesus, he rejoiced greatly, for he had wanted to see Him for a considerable time, because he had heard about Him, and was hoping to
see some sign done by Him.
23:9 于是问祂许多的话，耶稣却一言不答。
And he questioned Him with many words, but He answered him nothing.
23:10 祭司长和经学家都站着，极力的控告祂。
And the chief priests and the scribes stood by, vehemently accusing Him.
23:11 希律同他的兵丁就藐视耶稣，戏弄祂，给祂穿上华丽的衣服，把祂送回彼拉多那里。
And Herod with his soldiers, having despised Him and mocked Him, threw around Him splendid clothing and sent Him back to Pilate.
23:12 从前希律和彼拉多互相为敌，就在那一天，他们彼此成了朋友。
And both Herod and Pilate became friends with one another on that very day, for they had previously been at enmity toward each other.
23:13 彼拉多传齐了祭司长、官长并百姓，
And Pilate, calling together the chief priests and the rulers and the people,
23:14 就对他们说，你们把这人带到我这里，说祂是煽惑百姓的，看哪，我也曾将你们告祂的事，在你们面前审问过，并没有查出祂有什么该定罪的；
995
Said to them, You have brought this man to me as one who turns the people away, and behold, I have examined Him before you and found no fault in this man
regarding the accusations you bring against Him.
23:15 就是希律也是如此，因为他把耶稣送回我们这里来，可见祂没有作过什么该死的事。
No, neither has Herod, for he sent Him back to us, and behold, nothing worthy of death has been done by Him.
23:16 所以我要责打祂，把祂释放了。
I will therefore discipline Him and release Him.
23:17 每逢节期，总督必须释放一个囚犯给他们。
Now he was obliged to release to them one prisoner at the feast.
23:18 他们却一齐喊着说，除掉这个人，释放巴拉巴给我们。
But they cried out all together, saying, Take this man away and release to us Barabbas.
23:19 这巴拉巴是因在城里作乱杀人下在监里的。
He was one who, for a certain insurrection that occurred in the city and for murder, had been thrown into the prison.
23:20 然而，彼拉多愿意释放耶稣，就再对他们声明；
But Pilate, wanting to release Jesus, addressed them again;
23:21 无奈他们一直喊着说，钉祂十字架！钉祂十字架！
But they continued to shout, saying, Crucify, crucify Him!
23:22 彼拉多第三次对他们说，为什么？这人作了什么恶事？我并没有查出祂有什么该定死罪的，所以我要责打祂，把祂释放了。
But he said to them a third time, Why, what evil has this man done? I have found no cause of death in Him; I will therefore discipline Him and release Him.
23:23 但他们大声催逼，求他把耶稣钉十字架，他们的声音就得了胜。
But they pressed him with loud voices, asking that He be crucified, and their voices prevailed.
23:24 彼拉多这才宣判，他们所要求的可以执行，
And Pilate gave sentence that their request be carried out,
23:25 便把他们所求那因作乱杀人下在监里的释放了；却把耶稣交出来，任凭他们的意思行。
And he released him who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, whom they asked for; but Jesus he delivered up to their will.
23:26 他们把耶稣带走的时候，有一个古利奈人西门，从乡下来，他们就抓住他，把十字架搁在他身上，叫他在耶稣后面背着。
And as they led Him away, they laid hold of Simon, a certain Cyrenian, coming from the country, and they placed the cross upon him to carry it behind Jesus.
23:27 有许多百姓及妇女跟随耶稣，为祂捶胸哀号。
And a great multitude of the people and of women who were mourning and lamenting Him followed Him.
23:28 耶稣转身对她们说，耶路撒冷的女儿，不要为我哭，当为自己和自己的儿女哭。
But Jesus turned to them and said, Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep over Me, but weep over yourselves and over your children.
23:29 因为看哪，日子要到，人必说，不生育的，和未曾怀胎的，未曾乳养孩子的，有福了。
For behold, the days are coming in which they will say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs which have not borne, and the breasts which have not nourished.
23:30 那时，人要对大山说，倒在我们身上；对小山说，遮盖我们。
Then they will begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us! and to the hills, Cover us!
23:31 这些事既行在满有汁水的树上，那枯干的树将会怎样？
For if they do these things with the tree full of sap, what will happen with the one that is dry?
23:32 又有两个犯人，和耶稣一同带去处死。
And two others also, who were criminals, were led with Him to be executed.
23:33 他们到了一个地方，名叫髑髅地，就在那里将耶稣钉了十字架，也钉了那两个犯人，一个在右边，一个在左边。
And when they came to the place called The Skull, there they crucified Him and the criminals, one on the right and one on the left.
23:34 当下耶稣说，父阿，赦免他们，因为他们所作的，他们不晓得。兵丁就拈阄分祂的衣服。
And Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing. And dividing His garments, they cast lots.
23:35 百姓站着观看，官长也嗤笑着说，祂救了别人，祂若是神的基督，是那蒙拣选的，就让祂救自己吧！
And the people stood by, looking on. And the rulers also sneered, saying, He saved others; let Him save Himself if this is the Christ of God, the Chosen One!
23:36 兵丁也戏弄祂，上前拿醋送给祂喝，说，
And the soldiers also mocked Him, coming to Him and offering Him vinegar,
23:37 你若是犹太人的王，可以救自己吧！
And saying, If You are the King of the Jews, save Yourself!
23:38 在耶稣以上有一个牌子写着：这是犹太人的王。
And there was also an inscription over Him: This Is The King Of The JEWS.
23:39 悬挂着的犯人中，有一个亵渎祂说，你不是基督么？可以救自己和我们吧！
And one of the criminals who were hanged there blasphemed Him, saying, Are You not the Christ? Save Yourself and us!
23:40 但另一个应声责备他说，你既是一样受刑的，还不怕神么？
But the other, answering, rebuked him and said, Do you not even fear God, since you are in the same judgment?
23:41 我们受刑是应该的，因我们所受的，与我们所作的相称，但这个人没有作过一件不当的事。
And we justly, for we are receiving what we deserve for what we did, but this Man has done nothing amiss.
23:42 就说，耶稣阿，你来进入你国的时候，求你记念我。
And he said, Jesus, remember me when You come into Your kingdom.
23:43 耶稣对他说，我实在告诉你，今日你要同我在乐园里了。
And He said to him, Truly I say to you, Today you shall be with Me in Paradise.
23:44 那时约到正午，遍地都黑暗了，直到午后三时，
And it was now about the sixth hour, and darkness fell over the whole land until the ninth hour,
23:45 日头不发光，殿里的幔子也从当中裂开。
The sun's light failing; and the veil of the temple was split down the middle.
23:46 耶稣大声喊着说，父阿，我将我的灵交在你手里。说了这话，气就断了。
And crying with a loud voice, Jesus said, Father, into Your hands I commit My spirit. And saying this, He expired.
996
23:47 百夫长看见所发生的事，就荣耀神说，这真是个义人。
Now when the centurion saw what had happened, he glorified God, saying, Certainly this man was righteous.
23:48 聚集观看的群众，看见所发生的事，都捶着胸回去了。
And all the crowds who came together at this spectacle, when they beheld the things that happened, returned, beating their breasts.
23:49 还有一切与耶稣熟识的人，和从加利利跟着祂来的妇女们，都远远的站着，看这些事。
And all those who knew Him, and the women who accompanied Him from Galilee, stood at a distance, observing these things.
23:50 看哪，有一个人名叫约瑟，是个议士，为人善良公义；
And behold, there was a man named Joseph, who was a member of the Council, and a good and righteous man
23:51 众人所谋所为，这人并没有附和；他本是犹太亚利马太城里，素来盼望神国的人。
(This man had not consented to their counsel and action), from Arimathea, a city of the Jews, who was expecting the kingdom of God.
23:52 这人到彼拉多跟前来，求耶稣的身体，
This man came to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
23:53 就取下来用细麻布裹好，安放在石头凿成的坟墓里，那里从来没有葬过人。
And he took it down and wrapped it in a fine linen cloth, and laid Him in a tomb hewn in the rock, where no one had ever lain.
23:54 那日是预备日，安息日也快到了。
And it was the day of preparation, and the Sabbath was coming on.
23:55 那些从加利利和耶稣同来的妇女，跟在后面，看见了坟墓和祂的身体怎样安放，
And the women who had come together with Him out of Galilee followed after and beheld the tomb and how His body was laid.
23:56 就回去，预备了香料和香膏。她们在安息日，便遵着诫命安息了。
And they returned and prepared spices and ointment. And on the Sabbath they rested according to the commandment.
路加福音 Luke 第 24 章
24:1 七日的头一日，黎明的时候，那些妇女带着所预备的香料，来到坟墓前，
Now on the first day of the week, at early dawn, they came to the tomb, bringing the spices which they had prepared.
24:2 看见石头已经从坟墓辊开了，
And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb;
24:3 她们就进去，只是不见主耶稣的身体。
But when they entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus.
24:4 正为这事猜疑的时候，看哪，有两个人站在她们旁边，穿着闪烁的衣服。
And while they stood perplexed about this, behold, two men stood by them in dazzling clothing.
24:5 妇女们惊怕，将脸伏地；那两个人就对她们说，为什么在死人中找活人？
And they became frightened and bowed their faces to the ground, and the men said to them, Why are you seeking the living One among the dead?
24:6 祂不在这里，已经复活了。当记得祂还在加利利的时候，怎样对你们讲过，说，
He is not here but has been raised. Remember how He spoke to you while He was still in Galilee,
24:7 人子必须被交在罪人手里，被钉十字架，第三日复活。
Saying that the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified and on the third day rise up.
24:8 她们就想起耶稣的话来，
And they remembered His words.
24:9 便从坟墓那里回去，把这一切事报告十一个使徒和所有其余的人。
And returning from the tomb, they reported all these things to the eleven and to all the rest.
24:10 乃是抹大拉的马利亚和约亚拿，并雅各的母亲马利亚，以及其余同她们在一起的，把这些事告诉了使徒。
Now they were Mary the Magdalene and Joanna and Mary the mother of James and the rest of the women with them, who told these things to the apostles.
24:11 她们这些话，使徒以为是胡言，就不相信。
And these words appeared to them as nonsense, and they did not believe them.
24:12 彼得却起来，跑到坟墓那里，低头往里看，见细麻布独在一处，就回去了，心里希奇所发生的事。
But Peter rose up and ran to the tomb; and stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloths alone, and he went away to his own home, marveling at what had
happened.
24:13 看哪，就在那日，门徒中有两个人往一个村子去，这村子名叫以马忤斯，离耶路撒冷约有十一公里。
And behold, two of them were going on the same day to a village named Emmaus, which was sixty stadia away from Jerusalem.
24:14 他们彼此谈论所遇见的这一切事。
And they were talking to each other concerning all these things which had occurred.
24:15 正谈话讨论的时候，耶稣亲自就近他们，和他们同行。
And while they were talking and discussing, Jesus Himself drew near and went with them.
24:16 只是他们的眼睛被蒙蔽，以致认不出祂来。
But their eyes were kept from recognizing Him.
24:17 耶稣对他们说，你们走路彼此交谈的是什么事？他们就站住，面带愁容。
And He said to them, What are these words which you are exchanging with one another while you are walking? And they stood still, looking sad.
24:18 其中有一位名叫革流巴的，对祂说，独有你在耶路撒冷作客，不知道这几天在那里所发生的事么？
And one of them, Cleopas by name, answered and said to Him, Do You alone dwell as a stranger in Jerusalem and not know the things which have taken place
in it in these days?
24:19 耶稣说，什么事？他们对祂说，就是关于拿撒勒人耶稣的事。祂是个人，是个申言者，在神和众百姓面前，行事说话都有大能。
And He said to them, What things? And they said to Him, The things concerning Jesus the Nazarene, who was a Prophet powerful in work and word before God
and all the people;
24:20 祭司长和我们的官长，竟把祂解去定了死罪，钉祂十字架。
997
And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered Him up to the sentence of death and crucified Him.
24:21 但我们素来所盼望，要救赎以色列的就是祂。不但如此，这事发生到如今，已经是第三天了。
But we were hoping that He was the One who was about to redeem Israel. Indeed, besides all these things, it is now going on the third day since these things
took place.
24:22 再者，我们中间有几位妇女使我们惊奇，她们清早到了坟墓那里，
But moreover some women from among us amazed us. Being at the tomb early
24:23 不见祂的身体，就回来说，看见了天使显现，说祂活了。
And not finding His body, they came saying that they had also seen a vision of angels, who said that He is living.
24:24 又有几个同我们在一起的，往坟墓那里去，所见的正如妇女们所说的，只是没有看见祂。
And some of those with us went to the tomb and found it even as the women also said, but they did not see Him.
24:25 耶稣对他们说，无知的人哪，申言者所说的一切话，你们的心信靠得太迟钝了。
And He said to them, O foolish and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken!
24:26 基督受这些害，又进入祂的荣耀，岂不是应当的么？
Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and enter into His glory?
24:27 于是从摩西和众申言者起，凡经上指着自己的话，都给他们讲解明白了。
And beginning from Moses and from all the prophets, He explained to them clearly in all the Scriptures the things concerning Himself.
24:28 将近他们所要去的村子，耶稣好像还要往前行。
And they drew near to the village where they were going, and He acted as though He would go farther.
24:29 他们却强留祂说，请你同我们住下吧，因为时候晚了，日头已经平西了。耶稣就进去，要同他们住下。
And they constrained Him, saying, Stay with us, because it is near evening and the day is already gone by. And He went in to stay with them.
24:30 到了同他们坐席的时候，耶稣拿起饼来，祝福了，擘开，递给他们。
And as He reclined at table with them, He took the loaf and blessed it, and having broken it, He began handing it to them.
24:31 他们的眼睛开了，这才认出祂来；耶稣就从他们面前不见了。
And their eyes were opened, and they recognized Him; and He disappeared from them.
24:32 他们彼此说，在路上祂和我们说话，给我们解开圣经的时候，我们心里岂不是火热的么？
And they said to one another, Was not our heart burning within us while He was speaking to us on the road, while He was opening to us the Scriptures?
24:33 就在那时，他们起身，回耶路撒冷去，正遇见十一个使徒，和同他们一起的人，聚集在一处，说，
And they rose up that very hour and returned to Jerusalem, and they found the eleven and those with them assembled together,
24:34 主果然复活，已经向西门显现了。
Saying, The Lord really has been raised and has appeared to Simon.
24:35 两个人就把路上的事，和擘饼的时候，主怎么被他们认出来的事，都述说了一遍。
And they related the things that occurred on the road, and how He was made known to them in the breaking of the bread.
24:36 正说这话的时候，耶稣亲自站在他们中间，对他们说，愿你们平安。
And as they were speaking these things, He Himself stood in their midst and said to them, Peace to you.
24:37 他们却惊惶害怕，以为看见了灵。
But they were terrified and became frightened and thought they beheld a spirit.
24:38 祂说，你们为什么惊慌？为什么心里起疑念？
And He said to them, Why are you troubled, and why do doubts arise in your heart?
24:39 看我的手，我的脚，这就是我自己；摸我看看，灵没有肉没有骨，你们看我是有的。
See My hands and My feet, that it is I Myself. Touch Me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you behold Me having.
24:40 说了这话，就把手和脚给他们看。
And when He had said this, He showed them His hands and His feet.
24:41 他们正喜得不敢信，并且希奇的时候，耶稣说，你们这里有什么吃的没有？
And while they still did not believe for joy and were marveling, He said to them, Do you have anything here to eat?
24:42 他们便递给祂一片烧鱼。
And they handed Him a piece of broiled fish;
24:43 祂接过来，在他们面前吃了。
And He took it and ate before them.
24:44 耶稣对他们说，这就是我从前还与你们同在的时候，对你们所说的话：摩西的律法、申言者的书、和诗篇上所记关于我的一切事，都必须应验。
And He said to them, These are My words which I spoke to you while I was still with you, that all the things written in the Law of Moses and the Prophets and
Psalms concerning Me must be fulfilled.
24:45 于是耶稣开他们的心窍，使他们能明白圣经；
Then He opened their mind to understand the Scriptures;
24:46 又对他们说，经上这样记着：基督要受害，第三日从死人中复活；
And He said to them, Thus it is written, that the Christ would suffer and rise up from the dead on the third day,
24:47 并且人要靠着祂的名，传悔改以得赦罪之道，从耶路撒冷起，直到万邦。
And that repentance for forgiveness of sins would be proclaimed in His name to all the nations, beginning from Jerusalem.
24:48 你们就是这些事的见证人。
You are witnesses of these things.
24:49 看哪，我要将我父所应许的，降在你们身上；你们要留在城里，直到你们穿上从高处来的能力。
And behold, I send forth the promise of My Father upon you; but as for you, stay in the city until you put on power from on high.
24:50 耶稣领他们出去，直到伯大尼附近，就举手给他们祝福。
And He led them out as far as Bethany, and He lifted up His hands and blessed them.
24:51 正祝福的时候，祂就离开他们，被带到天上去了。
And while He blessed them, He parted from them and was carried up into heaven.
24:52 他们就拜祂，大大的欢喜，回耶路撒冷去，
And they worshipped Him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy,
24:53 常在殿里颂赞神。
And were continually in the temple, blessing God.
998
999
43. 约翰福音 John
约翰福音 John 第 1 章
1:1 太初有话，话与神同在，话就是神。
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
1:2 这话太初与神同在。
He was in the beginning with God.
1:3 万物是借着祂成的；凡已成的，没有一样不是借着祂成的。
All things came into being through Him, and apart from Him not one thing came into being which has come into being.
1:4 生命在祂里面，这生命就是人的光。
In Him was life, and the life was the light of men.
1:5 光照在黑暗里，黑暗未曾胜过光。
And the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not overcome it.
1:6 有一个人，是从神那里差来的，名叫约翰。
There came a man sent from God, whose name was John.
1:7 这人来，为要作见证，就是为光作见证，叫众人借着他可以信。
He came for a testimony that he might testify concerning the light, that all might believe through him.
1:8 他不是那光，乃是要为那光作见证。
He was not the light, but came that he might testify concerning the light.
1:9 那光是真光，来到世上，要照亮每一个人。
This was the true light which, coming into the world, enlightens every man.
1:10 祂在世界，世界也是借着祂成的，世界却不认识祂。
He was in the world, and the world came into being through Him, yet the world did not know Him.
1:11 祂到自己的地方来，自己的人却不接受祂。
He came to His own, yet those who were His own did not receive Him.
1:12 凡接受祂的，就是信入祂名的人，祂就赐他们权柄，成为神的儿女。
But as many as received Him, to them He gave the authority to become children of God, to those who believe into His name,
1:13 这等人不是从血生的，不是从肉体的意思生的，也不是从人的意思生的，乃是从神生的。
Who were begotten not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.
1:14 话成了肉体，支搭帐幕在我们中间，丰丰满满的有恩典，有实际。我们也见过祂的荣耀，正是从父而来独生子的荣耀。
And the Word became flesh and tabernacled among us (and we beheld His glory, glory as of the only Begotten from the Father), full of grace and reality.
1:15 约翰为祂作见证，喊着说，这就是我曾说，那在我以后来的，成了在我以前的，因祂原是比我先的。
John testified concerning Him and cried out, saying, This was He of whom I said, He who is coming after me has become ahead of me, because He was before
me.
1:16 从祂的丰满里我们都领受了，而且恩上加恩；
For of His fullness we have all received, and grace upon grace.
1:17 因为律法是借着摩西赐的，恩典和实际都是借着耶稣基督来的。
For the law was given through Moses; grace and reality came through Jesus Christ.
1:18 从来没有人看见神，只有在父怀里的独生子，将祂表明出来。
No one has ever seen God; the only begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, He has declared Him.
1:19 以下是约翰所作的见证：犹太人从耶路撒冷差祭司和利未人到他那里，问他说，你是谁？
And this is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent to him priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who are you?
1:20 他就承认，并不否认，承认说，我不是基督。
And he confessed and did not deny, and he confessed, I am not the Christ.
1:21 他们又问他说，那么你是谁？是以利亚么？他说，我不是。是那申言者么？他回答说，不是。
And they asked him, What then? Are you Elijah? And he said, I am not. Are you the Prophet? And he answered, No.
1:22 于是他们说，你到底是谁？叫我们好回复差我们来的人。关于你自己，你怎么说？
They said then to him, Who are you, that we may give an answer to those who sent us? What do you say about yourself?
1:23 他说，我就是那在旷野里呼喊者的声音：“修直主的道路！”正如申言者以赛亚所说的。
He said, I am a voice of one crying in the wilderness, "Make straight the way of the Lord!'' as Isaiah the prophet said.
1:24 那些奉差遣来的，是法利赛人。
And those who had been sent were of the Pharisees.
1:25 他们就问他说，你既不是基督，不是以利亚，也不是那申言者，那你为什么施浸？
And they asked him and said to him, Why then are you baptizing if you are not the Christ nor Elijah nor the Prophet?
1:26 约翰回答说，我是在水里施浸，但有一位站在你们中间，是你们不认识的，
John answered them, saying, I baptize in water; but among you stands One whom you do not know,
1:27 就是那在我以后来的，我就是给祂解鞋带也不配。
He who is coming after me, the thong of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie.
1:28 这些事是在约但河外的伯大尼，约翰施浸的地方发生的。
These things took place in Bethany across the Jordan, where John was baptizing.
1:29 次日，约翰看见耶稣向他走来，就说，看哪，神的羔羊，除去世人之罪的！
The next day he saw Jesus coming to him and said, Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world!
1:30 这就是我曾说，有一个人在我以后来，成了在我以前的，因祂原是比我先的。
This is He of whom I said, A man is coming after me who has become ahead of me, because He was before me.
1:31 我先前不认识祂，但为了叫祂显明给以色列人，所以我来在水里施浸。
1000
And I did not know Him, but in order that He might be manifested to Israel, for this reason I came baptizing in water.
1:32 约翰又作见证说，我曾看见那灵，仿佛鸽子从天降下，停留在祂身上。
And John testified, saying, I beheld the Spirit descending as a dove out of heaven, and He abode upon Him.
1:33 我先前不认识祂，只是那差我来在水里施浸的，对我说，你看见那灵降下来，停留在谁身上，谁就是在圣灵里施浸的。
And I did not know Him, but He who sent me to baptize in water, He said to me, He upon whom you see the Spirit descending and abiding upon Him, this is He
who baptizes in the Holy Spirit.
1:34 我看见了，就见证这是神的儿子。
And I have seen and have testified that this is the Son of God.
1:35 再次日，约翰同他两个门徒又站在那里。
Again the next day John was standing with two of his disciples,
1:36 他见耶稣行走，就说，看哪，神的羔羊！
And looking at Jesus walking, he said, Behold, the Lamb of God!
1:37 那两个门徒听见他所说的，就跟从了耶稣。
And the two disciples heard him speak this, and they followed Jesus.
1:38 耶稣转过身来，看见他们跟着，就问他们说，你们寻求什么？他们说，拉比，你住在那里？（拉比翻出来，就是夫子。）
And Jesus, turning and beholding them following, said to them, What are you seeking? And they said to Him, Rabbi (which translated means Teacher), where are
You staying?
1:39 耶稣说，你们来看。他们就去看祂住在那里，那一天便与祂同住，那时约是上午十时。
He said to them, Come, and you will see. They went therefore and saw where He was staying, and they stayed with Him that day; it was about the tenth hour.
1:40 听见约翰的话，跟从耶稣的那两个人中，一个是西门彼得的兄弟安得烈。
One of the two who heard this from John and followed Him was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother.
1:41 他先找着自己的哥哥西门，对他说，我们遇见弥赛亚了。（弥赛亚翻出来，就是基督。）
He first found his own brother Simon and said to him, We have found the Messiah (which translated means Christ).
1:42 于是领他到耶稣那里。耶稣看着他说，你是约翰的儿子西门，你要称为矶法。（矶法翻出来，就是彼得。）
He led him to Jesus. Looking at him, Jesus said, You are Simon, the son of John; you shall be called Cephas (which is interpreted, Peter).
1:43 又次日，耶稣想要往加利利去，遇见腓力，就对他说，跟从我。
The next day He wanted to go forth into Galilee, and He found Philip. And Jesus said to him, Follow Me.
1:44 这腓力是伯赛大人，是安得烈和彼得那城的人。
Now Philip was from Bethsaida, of the city of Andrew and Peter.
1:45 腓力找着拿但业，对他说，摩西在律法上所写，和众申言者所记的那一位，我们遇见了，就是约瑟的儿子拿撒勒人耶稣。
Philip found Nathanael and said to him, We have found Him of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, wrote, Jesus, the son of Joseph, from Nazareth.
1:46 拿但业对他说，拿撒勒还能出什么好的么？腓力说，你来看。
And Nathanael said to him, Can anything good be from Nazareth? Philip said to him, Come and see.
1:47 耶稣看见拿但业向祂走来，就指着他说，看哪，这是个真以色列人，他心里是没有诡诈的。
Jesus saw Nathanael coming to Him and said concerning him, Behold, truly an Israelite, in whom there is no guile!
1:48 拿但业对祂说，你怎么认识我？耶稣回答说，腓力还没有招呼你，你在无花果树底下，我就看见你了。
Nathanael said to Him, How do You know me? Jesus answered and said to him, Before Philip called you, while you were under the fig tree, I saw you.
1:49 拿但业说，拉比，你是神的儿子，你是以色列的王。
Nathanael answered Him, Rabbi, You are the Son of God; You are the King of Israel.
1:50 耶稣说，因我对你说，我看见你在无花果树底下，你就信了么？你将要看见比这更大的事。
Jesus answered and said to him, Is it because I told you that I saw you under the fig tree that you believe? You shall see greater things than these.
1:51 又对他说，我实实在在的告诉你们，你们将要看见天开了，神的使者上去下来在人子身上。
And He said to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, You shall see heaven opened and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man.
约翰福音 John 第 2 章
2:1 第三日，在加利利的迦拿有娶亲的筵席，耶稣的母亲在那里。
And the third day a wedding took place in Cana of Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there.
2:2 耶稣和祂的门徒也被请去赴婚筵。
And Jesus also was invited, as well as His disciples, to the wedding.
2:3 酒用尽了，耶稣的母亲对祂说，他们没有酒了。
And when the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to Him, They have no wine.
2:4 耶稣对她说，妇人，我与你何干？我的时候还没有到。
And Jesus said to her, Woman, what do I have in this that concerns you? My hour has not yet come.
2:5 祂母亲对仆人说，祂告诉你们什么，你们就作什么。
His mother said to the servants, Whatever He says to you, do.
2:6 照犹太人洁净的规矩，有六口石缸摆在那里，每口可盛两三桶水。
Now there were six stone waterpots lying there, according to the Jews' rite of purification, holding two or three measures each.
2:7 耶稣对仆人说，把缸倒满了水。他们就倒满了，直到缸口。
Jesus said to them, Fill the waterpots with water. And they filled them up to the brim.
2:8 耶稣又说，现在舀出来，送给管筵席的。他们就送了去。
And He said to them, Draw some out now and take it to the master of the feast. And they took it to him.
2:9 管筵席的尝了那水变的酒，并不知道是那里来的，只有舀水的仆人知道。管筵席的便叫新郎来，
And when the master of the feast tasted the water which had become wine and did not know where it came from, though the servants who had drawn the water
knew, the master of the feast called the bridegroom
1001
2:10 对他说，人都是先摆上好酒，等客人喝足了，才摆上次的，你倒把好酒留到如今。
And said to him, Every man sets out the good wine first, and when they have drunk freely, then that which is worse; you have kept the good wine until now.
2:11 这是耶稣所行的头一件神迹，是在加利利的迦拿行的，显出祂的荣耀来，祂的门徒就信入了祂。
This beginning of signs Jesus performed in Cana of Galilee and manifested His glory, and His disciples believed into Him.
2:12 这事以后，耶稣与祂的母亲、兄弟和门徒，都下迦百农去，在那里住了不多几日。
After this He went down to Capernaum, He and His mother and His brothers and His disciples; and they remained there not many days.
2:13 犹太人的逾越节近了，耶稣就上耶路撒冷去。
And the Passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
2:14 祂看见殿里有卖牛羊鸽子的，并有兑换银钱的人坐在那里，
And He found in the temple those selling oxen and sheep and doves, and the moneychangers sitting there.
2:15 就拿绳子作成鞭子，把众人连羊带牛都赶出殿去，倒出兑换银钱之人的钱币，推翻他们的桌子。
And having made a whip out of cords, He drove them all out of the temple, as well as the sheep and the oxen, and He poured out the money of the
moneychangers and overturned their tables.
2:16 又对卖鸽子的说，把这些东西从这里拿走，不要将我父的家，当作买卖的场所。
And to those who were selling the doves He said, Take these things away from here; do not make My Father's house a house of merchandise.
2:17 祂的门徒就想起经上记着：“我为你的家，心里焦急，如同火烧。”
His disciples remembered that it was written, "The zeal of Your house shall devour Me.''
2:18 于是犹太人问祂说，你既作这些事，还显什么神迹给我们看？
The Jews then answered and said to Him, What sign do you show us, seeing that you do these things?
2:19 耶稣回答说，你们拆毁这殿，我三日内要将它建立起来。
Jesus answered and said to them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.
2:20 犹太人便说，这殿是四十六年才造成的，你三日内就将它建立起来么？
Then the Jews said, This temple was built in forty-six years, and You will raise it up in three days?
2:21 但耶稣是以祂的身体为殿说的。
But He spoke of the temple of His body.
2:22 所以到祂从死人中复活以后，祂的门徒就想起祂说过这话，便信了圣经和耶稣所说的话。
When therefore He was raised from the dead, His disciples remembered that He had said this, and they believed the Scripture and the word which Jesus had
spoken.
2:23 当耶稣在耶路撒冷过逾越节的时候，有许多人看见祂所行的神迹，就信入了祂的名。
Now when He was in Jerusalem at the Passover, during the feast, many believed into His name when they saw the signs which He did.
2:24 耶稣却不将自己信托他们，因为祂知道万人，
But Jesus Himself did not entrust Himself to them, for He knew all men,
2:25 也用不着谁见证人怎样，因祂知道在人里面的是什么。
And because He did not need anyone to testify concerning man, for He Himself knew what was in man.
约翰福音 John 第 3 章
3:1 但有一个法利赛人，名叫尼哥底母，是犹太人的官。
But there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the JEWS.
3:2 这人夜里来到耶稣那里，对祂说，拉比，我们知道你是从神那里来作教师的，因为你所行的这些神迹，若没有神同在，无人能行。
This one came to Him by night and said to Him, Rabbi, we know that You have come from God as a teacher, for no one can do these signs that You do unless
God is with him.
3:3 耶稣回答说，我实实在在的告诉你，人若不重生，就不能见神的国。
Jesus answered and said to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, Unless one is born anew, he cannot see the kingdom of God.
3:4 尼哥底母说，人已经老了，如何能重生？岂能再进母腹生出来么？
Nicodemus said to Him, How can a man be born when he is old? He cannot enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born, can he?
3:5 耶稣回答说，我实实在在的告诉你，人若不是从水和灵生的，就不能进神的国。
Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, Unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.
3:6 从肉体生的，就是肉体；从那灵生的，就是灵。
That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.
3:7 我说，你们必须重生，你不要以为希奇。
Do not marvel that I said to you, You must be born anew.
3:8 风随着意思吹，你听见风的响声，却不晓得从那里来，往那里去；凡从那灵生的，就是这样。
The wind blows where it wills, and you hear the sound of it, but you do not know where it comes from and where it goes; so is everyone who is born of the Spirit.
3:9 尼哥底母问祂说，怎能有这事？
Nicodemus answered and said to Him, How can these things be?
3:10 耶稣回答说，你是以色列的教师，还不明白这事么？
Jesus answered and said to him, You are a teacher of Israel, and you do not know these things?
3:11 我实实在在的告诉你，我们所说的，是我们知道的，我们所见证的，是我们见过的，你们却不领受我们的见证。
Truly, truly, I say to you, We speak that which we know and testify of that which we have seen, and yet you do not receive our testimony.
3:12 我对你们说地上的事，你们尚且不信，若对你们说天上的事，你们如何能信？
If I told you of the things on earth and you do not believe, how will you believe if I tell you of the things in heaven?
3:13 除了从天降下仍旧在天的人子，没有人升过天。
And no one has ascended into heaven, but He who descended out of heaven, the Son of Man, who is in heaven.
3:14 摩西在旷野怎样举蛇，人子也必照样被举起来，
1002
And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up,
3:15 叫一切信入祂的都得永远的生命。
That every one who believes into Him may have eternal life.
3:16 神爱世人，甚至将祂的独生子赐给他们，叫一切信入祂的，不至灭亡，反得永远的生命。
For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that every one who believes into Him would not perish, but would have eternal life.
3:17 因为神差祂的儿子到世上来，不是要定世人的罪，乃是要叫世人藉祂得救。
For God did not send the Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world might be saved through Him.
3:18 信入祂的人，不被定罪；不信的人，罪已经定了，因为他不信入神独生子的名。
He who believes into Him is not condemned; but he who does not believe has been condemned already, because he has not believed into the name of the only
begotten Son of God.
3:19 光来到世上，世人因自己的行为是恶的，不爱光倒爱黑暗，定他们的罪就是在此。
And this is the condemnation, that the light has come into the world, and men loved the darkness rather than the light, for their works were evil.
3:20 凡作恶的便恨光，并不来就光，恐怕他的行为受责备。
For every one who practices evil hates the light, and does not come to the light, lest his works be reproved.
3:21 但行真理的必来就光，要显明他的行为是在神里面行的。
But he who does the truth comes to the light, that his works may be manifested that they are wrought in God.
3:22 这事以后，耶稣和门徒到了犹太地，同他们在那里居住并施浸。
After these things, Jesus and His disciples came into the land of Judea, and there He spent some time with them and baptized.
3:23 约翰在靠近撒冷的哀嫩也施浸，因为那里水多，众人都去受浸。
And John also was baptizing in Aenon near Salim, because there was much water there; and people came and were baptized;
3:24 那时约翰还没有下在监里。
For John had not yet been thrown into prison.
3:25 约翰的门徒，和一个犹太人辩论洁净的礼。
There arose therefore a questioning on the part of John's disciples with a Jew about purification.
3:26 他们来到约翰那里，对他说，拉比，从前同你在约但河外，你所见证的那位，看哪，祂正在施浸，众人都往祂那里去了。
And they came to John and said to him, Rabbi, He who was with you across the Jordan, of whom you have testified, behold, He is baptizing and all are coming
to Him.
3:27 约翰回答说，若不是从天上赐的，人就不能得到什么。
John answered and said, A man cannot receive anything unless it has been given to him from heaven.
3:28 我曾说，我不是基督，不过是奉差遣在祂前面来的，你们自己可以给我作见证。
You yourselves testify of me that I said, I am not the Christ, but I have been sent before Him.
3:29 娶新妇的，就是新郎；新郎的朋友站着听祂，因着新郎的声音就欢喜快乐；所以我这喜乐满足了。
He who has the bride is the bridegroom; but the friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices with joy because of the bridegroom's voice. This
joy of mine therefore is made full.
3:30 祂必扩增，我必衰减。
He must increase, but I must decrease.
3:31 那从上头来的，是在万有之上；那出于地的，是属于地，他所说的，也是属于地。那从天上来的，是在万有之上。
He who comes from above is above all; he who is from the earth is of the earth and speaks out of the earth. He who comes from heaven is above all.
3:32 祂将所见所闻的见证出来，只是没有人领受祂的见证。
What He has seen and heard, of this He testifies, and no one receives His testimony.
3:33 那领受祂见证的，就盖上印，证明神是真的。
He who receives His testimony has sealed that God is true.
3:34 神所差来的，就说神的话，因为祂赐那灵是没有限量的。
For He whom God has sent speaks the words of God, for He gives the Spirit not by measure.
3:35 父爱子，已将万有交在祂手里。
The Father loves the Son and has given all into His hand.
3:36 信入子的人有永远的生命；不信从子的人不得见生命，神的震怒却停留在他身上。
He who believes into the Son has eternal life; but he who disobeys the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides upon him.
约翰福音 John 第 4 章
4:1 那时，主知道法利赛人听见祂收门徒并施浸比约翰还多，
When therefore the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John
4:2 （其实不是耶稣亲自施浸，乃是祂的门徒施浸，）
(Although Jesus Himself did not baptize, but rather His disciples),
4:3 祂就离开犹太，又往加利利去，
He left Judea and went away again into Galilee.
4:4 必须经过撒玛利亚。
And He had to pass through Samaria.
4:5 于是到了撒玛利亚的一座城，名叫叙加，靠近雅各给他儿子约瑟的那块地，
So He came to a city of Samaria called Sychar, near the piece of land that Jacob gave to Joseph his son;
4:6 在那里有雅各井。耶稣因行路疲累，就这样坐在井旁，那时约是午后六时。
And Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied from the journey, sat thus by the well; it was about the sixth hour.
4:7 有一个撒玛利亚妇人来打水，耶稣对她说，请给我水喝。
There came a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give Me something to drink.
1003
4:8 原来祂的门徒进城买食物去了。
For His disciples had gone away into the city to buy food.
4:9 撒玛利亚妇人对祂说，你既是犹太人，怎么向我一个撒玛利亚妇人要水喝？（原来犹太人和撒玛利亚人没有来往。）
The Samaritan woman then said to Him, How is it that You, being a Jew, ask for a drink from me, who am a Samaritan woman? (For Jews have no dealings with
Samaritans.)
4:10 耶稣回答说，你若知道神的恩赐，和对你说请给我水喝的是谁，你必早求祂，祂也必早给了你活水。
Jesus answered and said to her, If you knew the gift of God and who it is who says to you, Give Me a drink, you would have asked Him, and He would have
given you living water.
4:11 妇人说，先生，你没有打水的器具，井又深，从那里得活水？
The woman said to Him, Sir, You have no bucket, and the well is deep; where then do You get this living water?
4:12 我们的祖宗雅各，将这井给了我们，他自己和他的子孙并牲畜，也都喝这井里的水，难道你比他还大么？
Are You greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well and drank of it himself, as well as his sons and his cattle?
4:13 耶稣回答说，凡喝这水的，还要再渴；
Jesus answered and said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water shall thirst again,
4:14 人若喝我所赐的水，就永远不渴；我所赐的水，要在他里面成为泉源，直涌入永远的生命。
But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him shall by no means thirst forever; but the water that I will give him will become in him a fountain of water
gushing up into eternal life.
4:15 妇人说，先生，请把这水赐给我，叫我不渴，也不用来这里打水。
The woman said to Him, Sir, give me this water so that I will not thirst nor come here to draw.
4:16 耶稣说，你去叫你的丈夫，然后到这里来。
He said to her, Go, call your husband and come here.
4:17 妇人回答说，我没有丈夫。耶稣说，你说没有丈夫，是不错的；
The woman answered and said, I do not have a husband. Jesus said to her, You have well said, I do not have a husband,
4:18 因为你有过五个丈夫，现在有的，并不是你的丈夫，你所说的是真的。
For you have had five husbands, and the one you now have is not your husband; this you have said truly.
4:19 妇人说，先生，我看出你是申言者。
The woman said to Him, Sir, I perceive that You are a prophet.
4:20 我们的祖宗在这山上敬拜，你们倒说，敬拜的地方必须在耶路撒冷。
Our fathers worshipped in this mountain, yet you say that in Jerusalem is the place where men must worship.
4:21 耶稣说，妇人，你当信我，时候将到，那时你们敬拜父，不在这山上，也不在耶路撒冷。
Jesus said to her, Woman, believe Me, an hour is coming when neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father.
4:22 你们敬拜你们所不知道的，我们敬拜我们所知道的，因为救恩是从犹太人出来的。
You worship that which you do not know; we worship that which we know, for salvation is of the Jews.
4:23 时候将到，如今就是了，那真正敬拜父的，要在灵和真实里敬拜祂，因为父寻找这样敬拜祂的人。
But an hour is coming, and it is now, when the true worshippers will worship the Father in spirit and truthfulness, for the Father also seeks such to worship Him.
4:24 神是灵；敬拜祂的，必须在灵和真实里敬拜。
God is Spirit, and those who worship Him must worship in spirit and truthfulness.
4:25 妇人说，我知道弥赛亚（就是那称为基督的）要来；祂来了，必将一切的事都告诉我们。
The woman said to Him, I know that Messiah is coming (He who is called Christ); when He comes, He will declare all things to us.
4:26 耶稣说，这和你说话的就是祂。
Jesus said to her, I, who speak to you, am He.
4:27 正在这时候，耶稣的门徒回来，就希奇祂同一个妇人说话；只是没有人说，你寻求什么？或说，你为什么同她说话？
And at this point His disciples came, and they marveled that He was speaking with a woman; yet no one said, What are You seeking? or, Why are You speaking
with her?
4:28 那妇人就留下她的水罐子，往城里去，对众人说，
Then the woman left her waterpot and went away into the city, and said to the people,
4:29 你们来看，有一个人将我素来所行的一切事，都给我说出来了，这岂不就是基督么？
Come, see a man who told me all that I have done. Is this not the Christ?
4:30 众人就出城往耶稣那里去。
They went out of the city and came to Him.
4:31 这其间，门徒求耶稣说，拉比，请吃。
In the meantime, the disciples urged Him, saying, Rabbi, eat.
4:32 祂对他们说，我有食物吃，是你们不知道的。
But He said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know about.
4:33 门徒就彼此说，莫非有人拿什么给祂吃了？
The disciples therefore said to one another, Has anyone brought Him anything to eat?
4:34 耶稣说，我的食物就是实行差我来者的旨意，作成祂的工。
Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of Him who sent Me and to finish His work.
4:35 你们岂不是说，到收割的时候，还有四个月么？看哪，我告诉你们，举目向田观看，庄稼已经发白，可以收割了。
Do you not say that there are yet four months and then the harvest comes? Behold, I tell you, Lift up your eyes and look on the fields, for they are already white for
harvest.
4:36 收割的人得工价，收积五谷归入永远的生命，叫撒种的和收割的一同欢乐。
He who reaps receives wages and gathers fruit unto eternal life, in order that he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together.
4:37 那人撒种，这人收割，这话可见是真的。
For in this the saying is true, One sows and another reaps.
4:38 我差你们去收你们所没有劳苦的，别人劳苦，你们享受他们所劳苦的。
1004
I sent you to reap that for which you have not labored; others have labored, and you have entered into their labor.
4:39 那城里有好些撒玛利亚人信入了耶稣，因为那妇人作见证说，祂将我素来所行的一切事，都给我说出来了。
And many of the Samaritans from that city believed into Him because of the word of the woman who testified, He told me all that I have done.
4:40 于是撒玛利亚人来到耶稣跟前，求祂同他们住下，祂便在那里住了两天。
So when the Samaritans came to Him, they asked Him to remain with them, and He remained there two days.
4:41 因耶稣的话，信的人就更多了。
And many more believed because of His word.
4:42 他们便对妇人说，现在我们信，不再是因你的话；因为我们亲自听见了，知道这位真是世人的救主。
And they said to the woman, It is no longer because of your speaking that we believe, for we ourselves have heard and know that this One is truly the Savior of
the world.
4:43 过了那两天，耶稣就离开那里，往加利利去。
And after the two days He went forth from there into Galilee,
4:44 因为耶稣自己作过见证说，申言者在本地是不受尊敬的。
For Jesus Himself testified that a prophet has no honor in his own country.
4:45 到了加利利，加利利人因为看见祂在耶路撒冷过节时所行的一切事，就接待祂，因为他们也曾上去过节。
Then when He came into Galilee, the Galileans received Him, having seen all that He did in Jerusalem at the feast, for they also went to the feast.
4:46 耶稣又到了加利利的迦拿，就是祂从前变水为酒的地方。有一个大臣，他的儿子在迦百农患病。
He then came again to Cana of Galilee, where He had made the water wine. And there was a certain royal official, whose son was sick in Capernaum.
4:47 这人听见耶稣从犹太到了加利利，就去到祂那里，求祂下去医治他的儿子，因为他儿子快要死了。
When he heard that Jesus had come out of Judea into Galilee, he went to Him and asked Him to come down and heal his son, for he was about to die.
4:48 耶稣就对他说，若不看见神迹奇事，你们总是不信。
Jesus therefore said to him, Unless you see signs and wonders, you will by no means believe.
4:49 那大臣对祂说，先生，求你趁着我的孩子还没有死，就下去。
The royal official said to Him, Sir, come down before my little child dies.
4:50 耶稣对他说，去吧，你的儿子活了。那人信耶稣对他所说的话，就去了。
Jesus said to him, Go, your son lives. The man believed the word which Jesus said to him and went his way.
4:51 正下去的时候，他的奴仆迎见他，说他的孩子活了。
And as he was now going down, his slaves met him and said that his child was living.
4:52 他就向他们查问，孩子是什么时候见好的。他们说，昨天午后七时，烧就退了。
So he asked them the hour in which he got better. They said then to him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.
4:53 父亲便知道，那正是耶稣对他说你儿子活了的时候，他和他全家就都信了。
Then the father knew that it was in that hour in which Jesus said to him, Your son lives; and he believed, he and his whole house.
4:54 这第二件神迹，是耶稣从犹太来到加利利以后行的。
Again, this second sign Jesus performed when He came out of Judea into Galilee.
约翰福音 John 第 5 章
5:1 这事以后，到了犹太人的一个节期，耶稣就上耶路撒冷去。
After these things there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
5:2 在耶路撒冷靠近羊门有一个池子，希伯来话叫作毕士大，旁边有五个廊子。
Now there is in Jerusalem near the sheepgate a pool, which is called in Hebrew Bethesda, having five porticoes.
5:3 里面躺着许多病弱的、瞎眼的、瘸腿的、枯干的，等候水动。
In these lay a multitude of those who were sick, blind, lame, and withered, waiting for the moving of the water.
5:4 因为有天使时常下池子搅动那水，水动之后，谁先下去，无论患什么病，都会痊愈。
For an angel went down from time to time in the pool and stirred up the water; the first then to step in after the stirring up of the water was made well of whatever
disease he was being held by.
5:5 在那里有一个人，病了三十八年。
And a certain man was there, who had been thirty-eight years in his sickness.
5:6 耶稣看见他躺着，知道他已经病了许久，就问他说，你想要痊愈么？
When Jesus saw this one lying there and knew that he had already been a long time in that condition, He said to him, Do you want to get well?
5:7 病人回答说，先生，水动的时候，没有人把我放在池子里；我正去的时候，总有别人比我先下去。
The sick man answered Him, Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up; but while I am coming, another steps down before me.
5:8 耶稣对他说，起来，拿你的褥子走吧。
Jesus said to him, Rise, take up your mat and walk.
5:9 那人立即痊愈，就拿起褥子走了。
And immediately the man became well, and he took up his mat and walked. Now it was the Sabbath on that day;
5:10 那天是安息日，所以犹太人对那治好的人说，今天是安息日，你拿褥子是不可的。
Therefore the Jews said to the one who had been healed, It is the Sabbath, and it is not lawful for you to take up your mat.
5:11 他却回答说，那使我痊愈的对我说，拿你的褥子走吧。
But he answered them, He who made me well, that One said to me, Take up your mat and walk.
5:12 他们问他说，那对你说拿褥子走的人是谁？
They asked him, Who is the man who said to you, Take up your mat and walk?
5:13 那治好的人不知道是谁，因为那地方人多，耶稣已经退避了。
But he who had been healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn, there being a crowd in that place.
5:14 这事以后，耶稣在殿里遇见他，对他说，看哪，你已经痊愈了，不要再犯罪，恐怕你遭遇的更加厉害。
1005
After these things Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, Behold, you have become well; sin no more so that nothing worse happens to you.
5:15 那人就去告诉犹太人，使他痊愈的是耶稣。
The man went away and told the Jews that Jesus was the One who made him well.
5:16 所以犹太人逼迫耶稣，想要杀祂，因为祂在安息日作了这事。
And because of this the Jews persecuted Jesus and sought to kill Him, because He did these things on the Sabbath.
5:17 耶稣就对他们说，我父作工直到如今，我也作工。
But Jesus answered them, My Father is working until now, and I also am working.
5:18 所以犹太人就越发想要杀祂，因祂不但犯了安息日，并且称神为祂的父，将自己与神当作平等。
Because of this therefore the Jews sought all the more to kill Him, because He not only broke the Sabbath but also called God His own Father, making Himself
equal with God.
5:19 耶稣对他们说，我实实在在的告诉你们，子从自己不能作什么，惟有看见父所作的，子才能作；父所作的事，子也照样作。
Then Jesus answered and said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, The Son can do nothing from Himself except what He sees the Father doing, for whatever that
One does, these things the Son also does in like manner.
5:20 父爱子，将自己所作的一切事指示祂，还要将比这更大的事指示祂，叫你们希奇。
For the Father loves the Son and shows Him all things that He Himself is doing; and greater works than these He will show Him that you may marvel.
5:21 父怎样叫死人起来，赐他们生命，子也照样随自己的意思赐人生命。
For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whom He wills.
5:22 父也不审判什么人，乃将审判的事全交与子，
For neither does the Father judge anyone, but He has given all judgment to the Son,
5:23 叫人都尊敬子，如同尊敬父一样。不尊敬子的，就是不尊敬差子来的父。
In order that all may honor the Son even as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent Him.
5:24 我实实在在的告诉你们，那听我话，又信差我来者的，就有永远的生命，不至于受审判，乃是已经出死入生了。
Truly, truly, I say to you, He who hears My word and believes Him who sent Me has eternal life, and does not come into judgment but has passed out of death
into life.
5:25 我实实在在的告诉你们，时候将到，如今就是了，死人要听见神儿子的声音，听见的人就要活了。
Truly, truly, I say to you, An hour is coming, and it is now, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live.
5:26 因为父怎样在自己里面有生命，就赐给子也照样在自己里面有生命；
For just as the Father has life in Himself, so He gave to the Son to also have life in Himself;
5:27 并且因为祂是人子，就赐给祂行审判的权柄。
And He gave Him authority to execute judgment because He is the Son of Man.
5:28 你们不要把这事看作希奇，因为时候将到，凡在坟墓里的，都要听见祂的声音，就出来；
Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming in which all in the tombs will hear His voice
5:29 行善的归到生命的复活，作恶的归到审判的复活。
And will come forth: those who have done good, to the resurrection of life; and those who have practiced evil, to the resurrection of judgment.
5:30 我从自己不能作什么；我怎么听见，就怎么审判；我的审判也是公平的，因为我不寻求自己的意思，只寻求那差我来者的意思。
I can do nothing from Myself; as I hear, I judge, and My judgment is just, because I do not seek My own will but the will of Him who sent Me.
5:31 我若为自己作见证，我的见证就不真。
If I testify concerning Myself, My testimony is not true.
5:32 另有一位为我作见证，我也知道他为我作的见证是真的。
There is another who testifies concerning Me, and I know that the testimony which he testifies concerning Me is true.
5:33 你们曾差人到约翰那里，他为真理作过见证。
You have sent people to John, and he has testified to the truth.
5:34 其实我不接受从人来的见证；然而我说这些话，为要叫你们得救。
But it is not from man that I receive My testimony, but I say these things that you may be saved.
5:35 约翰是点着且发亮的灯，你们情愿暂时在他的光中欢腾。
He was the lamp that was burning and shining, and you were willing to exult for a while in his light.
5:36 但我有比约翰更大的见证，因为父交给我要我完成的工，就是我所作的这些工，为我作见证，我是父所差来的。
But I have the testimony which is greater than that of John, for the works which the Father has given Me to finish, the works themselves which I do, testify
concerning Me that the Father has sent Me.
5:37 差我来的父，也为我作过见证。你们从来没有听过祂的声音，也没有见过祂的形状，
And the Father who sent Me, He has testified concerning Me. You have neither heard His voice at any time, nor have you seen His form,
5:38 并且你们没有祂的话住在你们里面，因为祂所差来的这一位，你们不信。
And you do not have His word abiding in you, for Him whom He sent, this One you do not believe.
5:39 你们查考圣经，因你们以为其中有永远的生命，为我作见证的就是这经。
You search the Scriptures, because you think that in them you have eternal life; and it is these that testify concerning Me.
5:40 然而你们不肯到我这里来得生命。
Yet you are not willing to come to Me that you may have life.
5:41 我不接受从人来的荣耀。
I do not receive glory from men.
5:42 但我认识你们，知道你们里面没有神的爱。
But I know you, that you do not have the love of God in yourselves.
5:43 我在我父的名里来，你们并不接受我；若有别人在自己的名里来，你们倒要接受他。
I have come in the name of My Father, and you do not receive Me; if another comes in his own name, you will receive him.
5:44 你们互相受荣耀，却不寻求从独一之神来的荣耀，怎能信我呢？
How can you believe when you receive glory from one another and do not seek the glory that is from the only God?
5:45 不要以为我要向父控告你们；有一位控告你们的，就是你们所仰赖的摩西。
1006
Do not think that I will accuse you before the Father; there is one who accuses you: Moses, in whom you have set your hope.
5:46 你们若信摩西，也必信我，因为他曾写过关于我的事。
For if you believed Moses, you would believe Me; for he wrote concerning Me.
5:47 你们若不信他所写的，怎能信我的话？
But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe My words?
约翰福音 John 第 6 章
6:1 这事以后，耶稣渡过加利利海，就是提比哩亚海。
After these things Jesus went away across the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias.
6:2 有大批群众，因为看见祂在病人身上所行的神迹，就跟随祂。
And a great crowd followed Him, because they saw the signs which He did on those who were sick.
6:3 耶稣上了山，和门徒一同坐在那里。
And Jesus went up to the mountain and sat there with His disciples.
6:4 那时犹太人的逾越节近了。
Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was near.
6:5 耶稣举目看见大批群众向祂走来，就对腓力说，我们从那里买饼给这些人吃？
Jesus then lifting up His eyes and seeing that a great crowd was coming toward Him, said to Philip, Where shall we buy bread that these may eat?
6:6 祂说这话，是要试验腓力，祂自己原知道要怎样行。
But this He said to test him, for He Himself knew what He was about to do.
6:7 腓力回答说，就是二百银币的饼，叫他们各人吃一点，也是不够的。
Philip answered Him, Two hundred denarii worth of bread is not sufficient for them, that each one may take a little.
6:8 有一个门徒，就是西门彼得的兄弟安得烈，对耶稣说，
One of His disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to Him,
6:9 这里有一个孩童，他有五个大麦饼、两条鱼，只是供给这么多人，还算什么？
There is a little boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish; but what are these for so many?
6:10 耶稣说，你们叫众人坐下。原来那地方的草多。坐下的男人，数目约有五千。
Jesus said, Have the people recline. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men reclined, in number about five thousand.
6:11 耶稣拿起饼来，祝谢了，就分给那坐着的人，分鱼也是这样，都随着他们所要的。
Jesus then took the loaves, and when He had given thanks, He distributed to those who were reclining; likewise also of the fish, as much as they wanted.
6:12 他们吃饱了，耶稣对门徒说，把剩下的零碎收拾起来，免得有蹧蹋的。
And when they were filled, He said to His disciples, Gather the broken pieces left over that nothing may be lost.
6:13 他们便将那五个大麦饼的零碎，就是众人吃了剩下的，收拾起来，装满了十二篮子。
So they gathered them and filled twelve handbaskets with broken pieces from the five barley loaves which were left over among those who had eaten.
6:14 众人看见耶稣所行的神迹，就说，这真是那要到世上来的申言者。
The people therefore, seeing the sign which He did, said, This is truly the Prophet who is to come into the world.
6:15 耶稣既知道众人要来强逼祂作王，就独自又退到山上去了。
Then Jesus, knowing that they were about to come and take Him by force to make Him King, withdrew again to the mountain, Himself alone.
6:16 到了晚上，祂的门徒下海边去，
And when evening fell, His disciples went down to the sea,
6:17 上了船，要过海往迦百农去。天已经黑了，耶稣还没有来到他们那里。
And they got into a boat and began crossing the sea to Capernaum. And it had already become dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them.
6:18 因为起了大风，海就翻腾起来。
And because a strong wind was blowing, the sea was churning.
6:19 门徒摇橹约行了五、六公里，看见耶稣在海上行走，渐渐近了船，他们就害怕。
Then, when they had rowed about twenty-five or thirty stadia, they saw Jesus walking on the sea and coming near the boat, and they became frightened.
6:20 耶稣对他们说，是我，不要怕。
But He said to them, It is I. Do not be afraid.
6:21 门徒这才乐意接祂上船，船立刻到了他们所要去的地方。
Then they were willing to take Him into the boat; and immediately the boat was at the land to which they were going.
6:22 第二日，站在海那边的群众，看见那里除了一只小船以外，没有别的船，又知道耶稣没有同祂的门徒上船，乃是门徒自己去的。
The next day the crowd which stood on the other side of the sea saw that there had been no other small boat there except one, and that Jesus had not gotten
into the boat with His disciples, but that His disciples had gone away alone.
6:23 另有几只小船从提比哩亚来，靠近主祝谢后，众人吃饼的地方。
But other small boats from Tiberias came near to the place where they ate the bread after the Lord had given thanks.
6:24 群众见耶稣和祂的门徒都不在那里，就上了小船，往迦百农去找耶稣。
So when the crowd saw that Jesus was not there, nor His disciples, they themselves got into the small boats and came to Capernaum, seeking Jesus.
6:25 他们既在海那边找着了，就对祂说，拉比，你是几时到这里来的？
And when they found Him on the other side of the sea, they said to Him, Rabbi, when did You get here?
6:26 耶稣回答说，我实实在在的告诉你们，你们找我，并不是因看见神迹，乃是因吃饼得饱。
Jesus answered them and said, Truly, truly, I say to you, You seek Me not because you have seen signs, but because you ate of the bread and were filled.
6:27 不要为那必坏的食物劳力，要为那存到永远生命的食物劳力，就是人子要赐给你们的，因为祂是父神所印证的。
Work not for the food which perishes, but for the food which abides unto eternal life, which the Son of Man will give you; for Him has the Father, even God, sealed.
6:28 他们问祂说，我们当怎样行，才算作神的工？
Then they said to Him, What shall we do that we may work the works of God?
1007
6:29 耶稣回答说，信入神所差来的，这就是作神的工。
Jesus answered and said to them, This is the work of God, that you believe into Him whom He has sent.
6:30 他们就说，这样，你行什么神迹，叫我们看见就信你？你到底作什么工？
They said then to Him, What sign then will You do that we may see and believe You? What work will You do?
6:31 我们的祖宗在旷野吃过吗哪，如经上所记：“祂把那从天上来的粮赐给他们吃。”
Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, as it is written, "He gave them bread out of heaven to eat.''
6:32 耶稣说，我实实在在的告诉你们，不是摩西把那从天上来的粮赐给你们，乃是我父把那从天上来的真粮赐给你们。
Jesus therefore said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Moses has not given you the bread out of heaven, but My Father gives you the true bread out of heaven.
6:33 因为神的粮，就是那从天上降下来赐生命给世人的。
For the bread of God is He who comes down out of heaven and gives life to the world.
6:34 他们对祂说，主阿，常将这粮赐给我们。
They said therefore to Him, Lord, give us this bread always.
6:35 耶稣对他们说，我就是生命的粮，到我这里来的，必永远不饿；信入我的，必永远不渴。
Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life; he who comes to Me shall by no means hunger, and he who believes into Me shall by no means ever thirst.
6:36 只是我对你们说过，你们已经看见我，还是不信。
But I have said to you that you have also seen Me, and yet you do not believe.
6:37 凡父所赐给我的人，必到我这里来；到我这里来的，我绝不把他丢在外面。
All that the Father gives Me will come to Me, and him who comes to Me I shall by no means cast out.
6:38 因为我从天上降下来，不是要行我自己的意思，乃是要行那差我来者的意思。
For I have come down from heaven not to do My own will but the will of Him who sent Me.
6:39 那差我来者的意思，就是凡祂所赐给我的，叫我一个也不失落，在末日却叫他复活。
And this is the will of Him who sent Me, that of all which He has given Me I should lose nothing but should raise it up in the last day.
6:40 因为我父的意思，是叫一切看见子而信入祂的人，得着永远的生命，并且在末日我要叫他复活。
For this is the will of My Father, that every one who beholds the Son and believes into Him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up in the last day.
6:41 犹太人因为耶稣说，我是从天上降下来的粮，就唧咕议论祂。
The Jews therefore murmured concerning Him because He said, I am the bread that came down out of heaven.
6:42 他们说，这不是约瑟的儿子耶稣么？祂的父母我们岂不认得么？祂如今怎么说，我是从天上降下来的？
And they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does He now say, I have come down out of heaven?
6:43 耶稣回答说，你们不要彼此唧咕议论。
Jesus answered and said to them, Do not murmur among yourselves.
6:44 若不是差我来的父吸引人，就没有人能到我这里来；到我这里来的，在末日我要叫他复活。
No one can come to Me unless the Father who sent Me draws him; and I will raise him up in the last day.
6:45 申言者书上记着，“他们都要蒙神的教导。”凡从父听见又学习的，就到我这里来。
It is written in the prophets, "And they shall all be taught of God.'' Every one who has heard and learned from the Father comes to Me.
6:46 这不是说，有人看见过父，惟独从神来的，祂看见过父。
Not that anyone has seen the Father, except Him who is from God, He has seen the Father.
6:47 我实实在在的告诉你们，信的人有永远的生命。
Truly, truly, I say to you, He who believes has eternal life.
6:48 我就是生命的粮。
I am the bread of life.
6:49 你们的祖宗在旷野吃过吗哪，还是死了。
Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died.
6:50 这是从天上降下来的粮，叫人吃了就不死。
This is the bread which comes down out of heaven, that anyone may eat of it and not die.
6:51 我是从天上降下来的活粮，人若吃这粮，就必永远活着。我所要赐的粮，就是我的肉，为世人的生命所赐的。
I am the living bread which came down out of heaven; if anyone eats of this bread, he shall live forever; And the bread which I will give is My flesh, given for the
life of the world.
6:52 于是犹太人彼此争论说，这个人怎能把祂的肉给我们吃？
The Jews then contended with one another, saying, How can this man give us His flesh to eat?
6:53 耶稣说，我实实在在的告诉你们，你们若不吃人子的肉，不喝人子的血，就没有生命在你们里面。
Jesus therefore said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink His blood, you do not have life within yourselves.
6:54 吃我肉喝我血的人，就有永远的生命，在末日我要叫他复活。
He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up in the last day.
6:55 我的肉是真正的食物，我的血是真正的饮料。
For My flesh is true food, and My blood is true drink.
6:56 吃我肉喝我血的人，就住在我里面，我也住在他里面。
He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood abides in Me and I in him.
6:57 活的父怎样差我来，我又因父活着，照样，那吃我的人，也要因我活着。
As the living Father has sent Me and I live because of the Father, so he who eats Me, he also shall live because of Me.
6:58 这就是从天上降下来的粮，吃这粮的人，就永远活着，不像你们的祖宗吃过吗哪，还是死了。
This is the bread which came down out of heaven, not as the fathers ate and died; he who eats this bread shall live forever.
6:59 这些话是耶稣在迦百农施教的时候，在会堂里说的。
He said these things in a synagogue as He taught in Capernaum.
6:60 祂的门徒中有好些人听见了，就说，这话甚难，谁能听呢？
Many therefore of His disciples, when they heard this, said, This word is hard; who can hear it?
6:61 耶稣心里知道门徒为这话唧咕议论，就对他们说，这话是叫你们绊跌么？
1008
But Jesus, knowing in Himself that His disciples were murmuring about this, said to them, Does this stumble you?
6:62 若是你们看见人子升到祂先前所在的地方，怎么样呢？
Then what if you saw the Son of Man ascending to where He was before?
6:63 赐人生命的乃是灵，肉是无益的；我对你们所说的话，就是灵，就是生命。
It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh profits nothing; the words which I have spoken to you are spirit and are life.
6:64 只是你们中间有不信的人。原来耶稣从起头就知道谁是不信的，谁要出卖祂。
But there are some of you who do not believe. For Jesus knew from the beginning who were the ones who did not believe and who was the one who would
betray Him.
6:65 耶稣又说，所以我对你们说过，若不是蒙父所赐，没有人能到我这里来。
And He said, For this reason I have told you that no one can come to Me unless it has been given to him from the Father.
6:66 从此祂门徒中有许多退去的，不再与祂同行。
From that time many of His disciples went back to what they left behind and no longer walked with Him.
6:67 耶稣就对那十二个门徒说，你们也想离去么？
Jesus therefore said to the twelve, Do you also want to go away?
6:68 西门彼得回答祂说，主阿，你有永远生命的话，我们还归从谁？
Simon Peter answered Him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have words of eternal life,
6:69 我们已经信了，又知道你是神的圣者。
And we have believed and have come to know that You are the Holy One of God.
6:70 耶稣回答说，我不是拣选了你们十二个么？但你们中间有一个是魔鬼。
Jesus answered them, Was it not I who chose you, the twelve? Yet one of you is a devil.
6:71 耶稣是指着加略人西门的儿子犹大说的；他本是十二门徒中的一个，后来要出卖耶稣的。
Now He spoke of Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot, for he, one of the twelve, would betray Him.
约翰福音 John 第 7 章
7:1 这事以后，耶稣在加利利行走，不愿在犹太往来，因为犹太人想要杀祂。
And after these things Jesus walked in Galilee, for He would not walk in Judea, because the Jews were seeking to kill Him.
7:2 当时犹太人的住棚节近了。
Now the Jews' Feast of Tabernacles was near.
7:3 耶稣的兄弟就对祂说，你离开这里上犹太去吧，叫你的门徒也看见你所行的事。
His brothers therefore said to Him, Depart from here and go into Judea, so that Your disciples also may behold Your works which You are doing;
7:4 人要显扬自己，没有在隐密中行事的。你若行这些事，就当将自己显明给世人看。
For no one does anything in secret and himself seeks to be known openly. If You do these things, manifest Yourself to the world.
7:5 原来连祂的兄弟也不信入祂。
For not even His brothers believed into Him.
7:6 耶稣就对他们说，我的时候还没有到，你们的时候却常是方便的。
Jesus therefore said to them, My time has not yet come, but your time is always ready.
7:7 世人不能恨你们，却是恨我，因为我指证他们所作的是恶的。
The world cannot hate you, but it hates Me, because I testify concerning it, that its works are evil.
7:8 你们上去过节吧，我现在不上去过这节，因为我的时候还没有到。
You go up to the feast; I am not going up to this feast, because My time has not yet been fulfilled.
7:9 耶稣说了这话，仍旧住在加利利。
And having said these things to them, He remained in Galilee.
7:10 然而祂兄弟上去过节以后，祂也上去了，但不是明去，似乎是暗去的。
But when His brothers had gone up to the feast, then He Himself also went up, not openly, but as it were in secret.
7:11 正当节期的时候，犹太人寻找耶稣，说，那人在那里？
The Jews therefore sought Him at the feast and said, Where is He?
7:12 群众纷纷唧咕议论祂，有的说，祂是好人；另有的却说，不然，祂是迷惑群众的。
And there was much murmuring about Him among the crowds: some said, He is a good man; but others said, No; rather He leads the crowd astray.
7:13 只是没有人公开的讲论祂，因为怕犹太人。
Yet no one spoke openly about Him for fear of the JEWS.
7:14 节期当中，耶稣上殿里去施教。
But when it was now the middle of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and began to teach.
7:15 犹太人就希奇说，这个人没有学过，怎么会明白书？
The Jews therefore marveled and said, How does this man know letters, without ever having studied?
7:16 耶稣回答说，我的教训不是我自己的，乃是那差我来者的。
Jesus therefore answered them and said, My teaching is not Mine, but His who sent Me.
7:17 人若立志实行祂的旨意，就必晓得这教训或是出于神，或是我从自己说的。
If anyone resolves to do His will, he will know concerning the teaching, whether it is of God or whether I speak from Myself.
7:18 那从自己说的，是寻求自己的荣耀；惟有那寻求差祂来者之荣耀的，这人才是真的，在祂里面没有不义。
He who speaks from himself seeks his own glory; but He who seeks the glory of Him who sent Him, this One is true, and unrighteousness is not in Him.
7:19 摩西岂不是赐律法给你们么？你们却没有一个人遵行律法。你们为什么想要杀我？
Has not Moses given you the law? Yet none of you keeps the law. Why do you seek to kill Me?
7:20 群众回答说，你有鬼附着，谁想要杀你？
The crowd answered, You have a demon! Who is seeking to kill You?
1009
7:21 耶稣回答说，我作了一件事，你们都以为希奇。
Jesus answered and said to them, I did one work, and you all marvel.
7:22 摩西传割礼给你们，（其实不是从摩西开始的，乃是从祖先开始的，）因此你们也在安息日给人行割礼。
For the same reason Moses gave you circumcision (not that it is from Moses, but from the fathers), and on the Sabbath you circumcise a man.
7:23 人若在安息日受割礼，免得违背摩西的律法，我在安息日叫一个人全然康复，你们就向我生气么？
If a man receives circumcision on the Sabbath that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with Me because I made an entire man well on the
Sabbath?
7:24 不可按外貌判断，总要作公义的判断。
Do not judge according to appearance, but judge the righteous judgment.
7:25 耶路撒冷人中有的说，这不就是他们想要杀的人么？
Then some of the people of Jerusalem said, Is not this the One whom they are seeking to kill?
7:26 你看祂还公开讲论，他们也不向祂说什么。难道官长真知道这是基督么？
And look, He is speaking openly, and they say nothing to Him. Have the rulers, perhaps, really recognized that this is the Christ?
7:27 然而这个人，我们晓得祂是那里的；只是基督来的时候，没有人知道祂是那里的。
But we know where this man is from; yet when the Christ comes, no one knows where He is from.
7:28 那时耶稣在殿里施教，大声说，你们认识我，也晓得我是那里的；我并不是从自己来的，但那差我来的是真的，你们不认识祂；
Jesus therefore cried out in the temple, teaching and saying, You both know Me and know where I am from; and I have not come of Myself, but He who sent Me
is true, whom you do not know.
7:29 我却认识祂，因为我是从祂来的，是祂差了我来。
I know Him, because I am from Him, and He sent Me.
7:30 他们就想要捉拿耶稣，只是没有人下手，因为祂的时候还没有到。
They sought then to seize Him, yet no one laid a hand on Him, because His hour had not yet come.
7:31 但群众中有许多人信入了祂，并且说，基督来的时候，祂所行的神迹，难道会比这人所行的更多么？
But many out of the crowd believed into Him and said, Will the Christ, when He comes, do more signs than this man has done?
7:32 法利赛人听见群众唧咕议论这些关于耶稣的事，祭司长和法利赛人就打发差役去捉拿祂。
The Pharisees heard the crowd murmuring these things about Him, and the chief priests and the Pharisees sent attendants to arrest Him.
7:33 于是耶稣说，我还有不多的时候和你们同在，以后就回到差我来的那里去。
Jesus therefore said, I am still with you a little while, and then I am going to Him who sent Me.
7:34 你们要找我，却找不着，我所在的地方，你们不能到。
You will seek Me and will not find Me; and where I am, you cannot come.
7:35 犹太人就彼此说，这人要往那里去，叫我们找不着？难道祂要往散居在希利尼人中的犹太人那里，去教训希利尼人么？
The Jews then said to one another, Where is this man about to go that we will not find Him? Is He about to go to the Jews in dispersion among the Greeks and
teach the Greeks?
7:36 祂说，你们要找我，却找不着，我所在的地方，你们不能到。这话是什么意思？
What is the word which He said, You will seek Me and will not find Me; and where I am, you cannot come?
7:37 节期的末日，就是最大之日，耶稣站着高声说，人若渴了，可以到我这里来喝。
Now on the last day, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, saying, If anyone thirsts, let him come to Me and drink.
7:38 信入我的人，就如经上所说，从他腹中要流出活水的江河来。
He who believes into Me, as the Scripture said, out of his innermost being shall flow rivers of living water.
7:39 耶稣这话是指着信入祂的人将要受的那灵说的；那时还没有那灵，因为耶稣尚未得着荣耀。
But this He said concerning the Spirit, whom those who believed into Him were about to receive; for the Spirit was not yet, because Jesus had not yet been
glorified.
7:40 群众听见这话，有的说，这真是那申言者。
Some of the crowd therefore, when they heard these words, said, This is truly the Prophet.
7:41 另有的说，这是基督。但也有的说，基督岂是从加利利出来的么？
Others said, This is the Christ. But some said, Does then the Christ come out of Galilee?
7:42 经上岂不是说，基督是出于大卫的后裔，是从大卫的本乡伯利恒出来的么？
Has not the Scripture said that the Christ comes out of the seed of David and from Bethlehem, the village where David was?
7:43 于是群众因着耶稣起了分裂。
So there arose a division among the crowd because of Him.
7:44 其中有人想要捉拿祂，只是没有人下手。
And some of them wanted to seize Him, but no one laid hands on Him.
7:45 差役回到祭司长和法利赛人那里，他们对差役说，你们为什么没有带祂来？
The attendants therefore came to the chief priests and Pharisees, and these said to them, Why did you not bring Him?
7:46 差役回答说，从来没有像祂这样说话的。
The attendants answered, Never has a man spoken as this man has.
7:47 法利赛人回答他们说，你们也受了迷惑么？
The Pharisees then answered them, Have you also been deceived?
7:48 官长或是法利赛人，岂有信入祂的？
Has any one of the rulers or Pharisees believed into Him?
7:49 但这不明白律法的群众，是被咒诅的。
But this crowd which does not know the law is accursed.
7:50 他们当中有尼哥底母，就是先前到耶稣那里去的，对他们说，
Nicodemus said to them (he who came to Him before, being one of them),
7:51 若不先听本人的口供，不知道他所作的事，难道我们的律法就定他的罪么？
Does our law condemn a man unless it first hears from him and knows what he is doing?
1010
7:52 他们回答他说，难道你也是出于加利利么？你且去查考，就知道没有申言者是出于加利利而兴起的。于是各人都回自己的家去了。
They answered and said to him, Are you also from Galilee? Search and see that no prophet arises out of Galilee.
约翰福音 John 第 8 章
8:1 耶稣往橄榄山去。
And everyone went to his own house. But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives.
8:2 清早又来到殿里，众百姓都到祂那里去，祂就坐下教训他们。
And early in the morning He came again into the temple, and all the people came to Him, and He sat down and taught them.
8:3 经学家和法利赛人，带着一个行淫时被拿的妇人来，叫她站在当中，
And the scribes and Pharisees brought a woman caught in adultery, and having set her in the midst,
8:4 就对耶稣说，夫子，这妇人是正在行淫时被拿的。
They said to Him, Teacher, this woman has been caught committing adultery, in the very act.
8:5 摩西在律法上吩咐我们，把这样的妇人用石头打死，这样，你怎么说？
Now in the law, Moses commanded us to stone such women. What then do you say?
8:6 他们说这话，是要试诱耶稣，好得着把柄告祂。耶稣却弯下腰来，用指头在地上写字。
But they said this to tempt Him, so that they might have reason to accuse Him. But Jesus stooped down and wrote with His finger on the ground.
8:7 他们还是不住的问祂，耶稣就直起腰来，对他们说，你们中间谁是没有罪的，谁就先拿石头打她。
But when they persisted in questioning Him, He stood up and said to them, He who is without sin among you, let him be the first to throw a stone at her.
8:8 于是又弯下腰来，在地上写字。
And again He stooped down and wrote on the ground.
8:9 他们听见了，就从老的开始，一个一个的出去了；只剩下耶稣一人，还有那妇人仍然站在当中。
And when they heard that, they went out one by one, beginning with the older ones. And Jesus was left alone, and the woman stood where she was, in the
midst.
8:10 耶稣就直起腰来，对她说，妇人，那些人在那里？没有人定你的罪么？
And Jesus stood up and said to her, Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you?
8:11 她说，主阿，没有。耶稣说，我也不定你的罪；去吧，从今以后不要再犯罪了。
And she said, No one, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I condemn you; go, and from now on sin no more.
8:12 于是耶稣又对众人讲论说，我是世界的光，跟从我的，就绝不在黑暗里行，必要得着生命的光。
Again therefore Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world; he who follows Me shall by no means walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.
8:13 法利赛人就对祂说，你是为自己作见证，你的见证不真。
The Pharisees then said to Him, You are testifying concerning Yourself; Your testimony is not true.
8:14 耶稣回答他们说，我就是为自己作见证，我的见证还是真的，因我晓得我从那里来，往那里去，你们却不晓得我从那里来，往那里去。
Jesus answered and said to them, Even if I testify concerning Myself, My testimony is true, for I know where I came from and where I am going; but you do not
know where I come from or where I am going.
8:15 你们是凭肉体判断人，我不判断任何人。
You judge according to the flesh; I judge no one.
8:16 我就是判断，我的判断也是真的，因为我并不单独，还有差我来的父与我同在。
But even if I do judge, My judgment is true, for I am not alone, but I and the Father who sent Me.
8:17 连你们的律法上也记着，两个人的见证是真的：
And in your law also it has been written that the testimony of two men is true:
8:18 我是为我自己作见证的，还有差我来的父，也为我作见证。
I am One who testifies concerning Myself, and the Father who sent Me testifies concerning Me.
8:19 他们就问祂说，你的父在那里？耶稣回答说，你们不认识我，也不认识我的父；你们若认识我，也就认识我的父。
They said then to Him, Where is Your Father? Jesus answered, You know neither Me nor My Father; if you knew Me, you would know My Father also.
8:20 这些话是耶稣在殿里施教的时候，在银库那里说的，也没有人拿祂，因为祂的时候还没有到。
These words He spoke in the treasury as He taught in the temple; and no one seized Him, because His hour had not yet come.
8:21 耶稣又对他们说，我要去了，你们要寻找我，并且你们要死在你们的罪中；我所去的地方，你们不能到。
He said therefore again to them, I am going away, and you will seek Me and will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come.
8:22 犹太人就说，祂说我所去的地方，你们不能到，难道祂要自杀么？
The Jews then said, He is not going to kill Himself, is He, for He says, Where I am going, you cannot come?
8:23 耶稣对他们说，你们是出于下头的，我是出于上头的；你们是属这世界的，我不是属这世界的。
And He said to them, You are from below, I am from above; you are of this world, I am not of this world.
8:24 所以我对你们说，你们要死在你们的罪中；你们若不信我是，必要死在你们的罪中。
Therefore I said to you that you will die in your sins; for unless you believe that I am, you will die in your sins.
8:25 他们就对祂说，你是谁？耶稣对他们说，基本上，就是我对你们所讲说的。
They said then to Him, Who are You? Jesus said to them, Altogether that which I also tell you.
8:26 关于你们，我有许多事要讲说，要判断；但那差我来的是真实的，我把从祂所听见的这些事，对世人讲说。
I have many things to say and to judge concerning you, but He who sent Me is true, and what I have heard from Him, these things I speak to the world.
8:27 他们不明白耶稣是在对他们讲说父。
They did not understand that He was speaking to them of the Father.
8:28 所以耶稣对他们说，你们举起人子以后，必知道我是，并且知道我不从自己作什么；我说这些话，乃是照着父所教训我的。
Jesus therefore said to them, When you lift up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am, and that I do nothing from Myself, but as My Father has taught Me, I
speak these things.
8:29 那差我来的是与我同在，祂没有撇下我独自一人，因为我始终作祂所喜悦的事。
1011
And He who sent Me is with Me; He has not left Me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to Him.
8:30 耶稣说这些话的时候，就有许多人信入了祂。
As He spoke these things, many believed into Him.
8:31 耶稣对信祂的犹太人说，你们若住在我的话里，就真是我的门徒；
Then Jesus said to those Jews who believed Him, If you abide in My word, you are truly My disciples;
8:32 你们必认识真理，真理必叫你们得以自由。
And you shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free.
8:33 他们回答祂说，我们是亚伯拉罕的后裔，从来没有被谁奴役过；你怎么说，你们必得以自由？
They answered Him, We are Abraham's seed and have never yet been enslaved to anyone. How is it that You say, You shall become free?
8:34 耶稣回答他们说，我实实在在的告诉你们，凡犯罪的，就是罪的奴仆。
Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Everyone who commits sin is a slave of sin.
8:35 奴仆不永远住在家里，儿子是永远住在家里。
And the slave does not abide in the house forever; the son does abide forever.
8:36 所以神的儿子若叫你们自由，你们就真自由了。
If therefore the Son sets you free, you shall be free indeed.
8:37 我知道你们是亚伯拉罕的后裔；你们却想要杀我，因为你们里面容不下我的话。
I know that you are Abraham's seed; but you seek to kill Me because My word has no place in you.
8:38 我所说的，是在我父那里看见的；你们所行的，是从你们的父听见的。
I speak the things which I have seen with My Father; so then, you also do the things which you have heard from your father.
8:39 他们回答祂说，我们的父就是亚伯拉罕。耶稣对他们说，你们若是亚伯拉罕的子孙，就必行亚伯拉罕所作的。
They answered and said to Him, Our father is Abraham. Jesus said to them, If you were Abraham's children, you would do the works of Abraham.
8:40 现在你们却想要杀我这个将从神所听见的真理，对你们讲了的人！这不是亚伯拉罕所行的。
But now you are seeking to kill Me, a man who has told you the truth which I heard from God; Abraham did not do this.
8:41 你们是行你们父所作的。他们对祂说，我们不是从淫乱生的；我们只有一位父，就是神。
You do the works of your father. They then said to Him, We were not born of fornication; we have one Father, God.
8:42 耶稣对他们说，倘若神是你们的父，你们就必爱我；因为我是出于神而前来的，并且已经来了。我不是从自己来的，乃是祂差了我来。
Jesus said to them, If God were your Father you would love Me; for I came forth out from God and have come from Him; for I have not come of Myself, but He
sent Me.
8:43 你们为什么不明白我的讲说？无非是因你们不能听我的话。
Why do you not understand My speaking? It is because you cannot hear My word.
8:44 你们是出于那父魔鬼，你们父的私欲，你们愿意行。他从起初就是杀人的，并且不站在真理中，因为在他里面没有真理。他说谎是出于他自己的私有
物，因他是说谎的，也是说谎者的父。
You are of your father the devil, and you want to do the desires of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth, because
there is no truth in him. When he speaks the lie, he speaks it out of his own possessions; for he is a liar and the father of it.
8:45 我讲真理，你们却因此不信我。
But because I speak the truth, you do not believe Me.
8:46 你们中间谁能指证我有罪？我既然讲真理，你们为什么不信我？
Which of you convicts Me of sin? Since I speak truth, why do you not believe Me?
8:47 出于神的，必听神的话；你们所以不听，因为你们不是出于神。
He who is of God hears the words of God; for this reason you do not hear them, because you are not of God.
8:48 犹太人回答祂说，我们说你是撒玛利亚人，又有鬼附着，岂不正对么？
The Jews answered and said to Him, Have we not spoken well in saying that You are a Samaritan and have a demon?
8:49 耶稣回答说，我没有鬼附着，我尊敬我的父，你们倒侮辱我。
Jesus answered, I do not have a demon, but I honor My Father, and you dishonor Me.
8:50 然而我不寻求自己的荣耀，有一位为我寻求荣耀并审判人的。
But I do not seek My glory; there is One who seeks glory for Me and judges.
8:51 我实实在在的告诉你们，人若遵守我的话，必永远不见死。
Truly, truly, I say to you, If anyone keeps My word, he shall by no means see death forever.
8:52 犹太人对祂说，现在我们知道你有鬼附着。亚伯拉罕死了，众申言者也死了，你还说人若遵守我的话，必永远不尝死味。
The Jews therefore said to Him, Now we know that You have a demon. Abraham died, and the prophets too; yet You say, If anyone keeps My word, he shall by
no means taste death forever.
8:53 难道你比我们的祖宗亚伯拉罕还大么？他死了，众申言者也死了。你将自己当作什么人？
Are You greater than our father Abraham, who died? The prophets died too. Who are You making Yourself?
8:54 耶稣回答说，我若荣耀自己，我的荣耀就算不得什么，荣耀我的乃是我的父，就是你们所说是你们神的那一位。
Jesus answered, If I glorify Myself, My glory is nothing; it is My Father who glorifies Me, of whom you say that He is your God.
8:55 你们未曾认识祂，我却认识祂。我若说不认识祂，我就是说谎的，像你们一样，但我认识祂，也遵守祂的话。
Yet you have not known Him, but I know Him. And if I say that I do not know Him, I will be like you, a liar; but I do know Him and I keep His word.
8:56 你们的祖宗亚伯拉罕欢腾的要见我的日子，既看见了，就欢乐。
Your father Abraham exulted that he would see My day, and he saw it and rejoiced.
8:57 于是犹太人对祂说，你还没有五十岁，岂见过亚伯拉罕？
The Jews then said to Him, You are not yet fifty years old, and have You seen Abraham?
8:58 耶稣对他们说，我实实在在的告诉你们，还没有亚伯拉罕，我就是。
Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Before Abraham came into being, I am.
8:59 于是他们拿石头要打祂，耶稣却隐藏起来，从殿里出去了。
So they picked up stones to throw at Him, but Jesus was hidden and went out of the temple.
1012
约翰福音 John 第 9 章
9:1 耶稣经过的时候，看见一个生来瞎眼的人。
And as He passed by, He saw a man blind from birth.
9:2 门徒问耶稣说，拉比，是谁犯了罪，叫这人生来就瞎眼？是这人，还是他父母？
And His disciples asked Him, saying, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he would be born blind?
9:3 耶稣回答说，不是这人犯了罪，也不是他父母犯了罪，乃是要在他身上显明神的作为。
Jesus answered, Neither has this man sinned nor his parents, but he was born so, that the works of God might be manifested in him.
9:4 趁着白昼，我们必须作那差我来者的工，黑夜一到，就没有人能作工了。
We must work the works of Him who sent Me while it is day; night is coming when no one can work.
9:5 我在世界的时候，是世界的光。
While I am in the world, I am the light of the world.
9:6 祂说了这话，就吐唾沫在地上，用唾沫和泥，抹在瞎子的眼睛上，
When He had said this, He spat on the ground and made clay of the spittle and anointed his eyes with the clay,
9:7 对他说，你往西罗亚池子里去洗。（西罗亚翻出来，就是奉差遣。）他去一洗，回来的时候，就看见了。
And He said to him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam (which is interpreted, Sent). He went therefore and washed and came away seeing.
9:8 他的邻舍和那先前见他是讨饭的，就说，这不是那素常坐着讨饭的人么？
The neighbors then and those who previously saw him as a beggar said, Is not this the one who used to sit and beg?
9:9 有的说，就是他。又有的说，不是，却是像他。他自己说，是我。
Some said, This is he. Others said, No, but he is like him. He said, I am the one.
9:10 于是他们对他说，你的眼睛是怎么开的？
They said then to him, How then were your eyes opened?
9:11 他回答说，那名叫耶稣的人，和泥抹我的眼睛，对我说，你往西罗亚池子去洗，我去一洗，就看见了。
He answered, The man called Jesus made clay and anointed my eyes, and said to me, Go to the pool of Siloam and wash. I went therefore and washed, and I
received my sight.
9:12 他们对他说，那个人在那里？他说，我不知道。
And they said to him, Where is He? He said, I do not know.
9:13 他们就把那从前瞎眼的人带到法利赛人那里。
They brought him who was once blind to the Pharisees.
9:14 耶稣和泥开他眼睛的那日是安息日。
Now it was the Sabbath, on which day Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes.
9:15 法利赛人也问他是怎么得看见的。瞎子对他们说，祂把泥抹在我的眼睛上，我一洗，就看见了。
Again therefore the Pharisees also asked him how he received his sight. And he said to them, He put clay on my eyes, and I washed, and I see.
9:16 法利赛人中有的说，这个人不是从神来的，因为祂不守安息日。又有的说，一个罪人怎能行这样的神迹？他们中间就起了分裂。
Then some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, because He does not keep the Sabbath. But others said, How can a man who is a sinner do such
signs? And there was a division among them.
9:17 他们又对瞎子说，祂既然开了你的眼睛，你说祂是怎样的人？他说，是个申言者。
Then they said to the blind man again, What do you say about Him, in that He opened your eyes? And he said, He is a prophet.
9:18 犹太人不信他是从前瞎眼，后来得看见的，等到叫了那得看见者的父母来，
The Jews then did not believe concerning him that he had been blind and had received his sight, until they called the parents of him who had received his sight
9:19 问他们说，这是你们所说，那生来就瞎眼的儿子么？现在他怎么看见了？
And asked them, saying, Is this your son, of whom you say that he was born blind? How then does he now see?
9:20 他父母回答说，我们知道他是我们的儿子，生来就是瞎眼的。
Then his parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son and that he was born blind.
9:21 至于他如今怎么看见了，我们却不知道，是谁开了他的眼睛，我们也不知道；你们问他吧，他已经成人，会替自己说话了。
But how he now sees, we do not know; or who opened his eyes, we do not know. Ask him; he is of age; he will speak for himself.
9:22 他父母说这话，是因怕犹太人，因为犹太人已经商议定了，若有承认耶稣是基督的，要把他赶出会堂。
His parents said these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone confessed Him to be the Christ, he should be put out
of the synagogue.
9:23 因此他父母说，他已经成人了，你们问他吧。
Because of this his parents said, He is of age; question him.
9:24 所以法利赛人第二次叫了那从前瞎眼的人来，对他说，你当将荣耀归与神，我们知道这人是个罪人。
Therefore a second time they called the man who had been blind, and said to him, Give glory to God; we know that this man is a sinner.
9:25 那人回答说，祂是个罪人不是，我不知道；有一件事我知道，从前我是瞎眼的，现在看见了。
Then he answered, Whether or not He is a sinner, I do not know; one thing I do know, that though I was blind, now I see.
9:26 他们就问他说，祂向你作了什么？是怎么开了你的眼睛？
They said then to him, What did He do to you? How did He open your eyes?
9:27 他回答说，我已经告诉你们，你们不听，现在为什么又想要听？莫非你们也想要作祂的门徒么？
He answered them, I told you already and you did not hear. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become His disciples?
9:28 他们就骂他说，你是那人的门徒，我们是摩西的门徒。
And they reviled him and said, You are His disciple; but we are disciples of Moses.
9:29 我们晓得神曾对摩西说过话，只是这个人，我们不晓得祂是那里的。
We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where He is from.
9:30 那人回答说，祂开了我的眼睛，你们竟不晓得祂是那里的，这真是奇怪。
The man answered and said to them, Why here is an amazing thing, that you do not know where He is from, and yet He opened my eyes!
9:31 我们晓得神不听罪人，惟有敬畏神，实行祂旨意的，神才听他。
1013
We know that God does not hear sinners, but if anyone is God-fearing and does His will, He hears him.
9:32 自古以来，未曾听过有人把生来瞎眼者的眼睛开了。
Since time began it has never been heard that anyone opened the eyes of one born blind.
9:33 这人若不是从神来的，什么也不能作。
If this man were not from God, He could do nothing.
9:34 他们回答说，你全然生在罪中，还要教训我们么？于是把他赶出去了。
They answered and said to him, You were wholly born in sins, and you are teaching us? And they cast him out.
9:35 耶稣听说他们把他赶出去，后来遇见他，就说，你信入神的儿子么？
Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and He found him and said, Do you believe into the Son of God?
9:36 他回答说，主阿，谁是神的儿子，叫我信入祂？
He answered and said, And who is He, Lord, that I may believe into Him?
9:37 耶稣说，你已经看见祂，这和你说话的就是祂。
Jesus said to him, You have both seen Him, and He is the One speaking with you.
9:38 他说，主阿，我信，就拜耶稣。
And he said, Lord, I believe; and he worshipped Him.
9:39 耶稣说，我为审判到这世上来，叫看不见的可以看见，看得见的反瞎了眼。
And Jesus said, For judgment I have come into this world, that those who do not see may see, and that those who see may become blind.
9:40 同祂在那里的法利赛人，有的听见这话，就说，难道我们也瞎了眼么？
Some of the Pharisees who were with Him heard these things and said to Him, We are not blind also, are we?
9:41 耶稣对他们说，你们若瞎了眼，就没有罪了；但现在你们说，我们看得见，所以你们的罪还存在。
Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would not have sin; but now that you say, We see; your sin remains.
约翰福音 John 第 10 章
10:1 我实实在在的告诉你们，不从门进羊圈，倒从别处爬进去的，那人就是贼，就是强盗。
Truly, truly, I say to you, He who does not enter through the door into the sheepfold, but climbs up from somewhere else, he is a thief and a robber;
10:2 从门进去的，才是羊的牧人。
But he who enters through the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
10:3 看门的就给他开门，羊也听他的声音；他按着名叫自己的羊，领它们出来。
To him the doorkeeper opens, and the sheep hear his voice; and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out.
10:4 当他把自己的羊都放出来，就在前头走，羊也跟着他，因为认得他的声音。
When he puts forth all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him because they know his voice.
10:5 羊绝不跟着生人，反要逃避，因为不认得生人的声音。
But they will by no means follow a stranger, but will flee from him, because they do not know the voice of strangers.
10:6 耶稣将这比喻告诉他们，但他们不明白祂所说的是什么意思。
This parable Jesus spoke to them, but they did not know what those things meant that He spoke to them.
10:7 所以耶稣又说，我实实在在的告诉你们，我就是羊的门。
Jesus therefore said to them again, Truly, truly, I say to you that I am the door of the sheep.
10:8 凡在我以前来的，都是贼，都是强盗，羊却不听他们。
All who came before Me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them.
10:9 我就是门；凡从我进来的，必要得救，并且必要入，必要出，也必要找着草场。
I am the door; if anyone enters through Me, he shall be saved and shall go in and go out and shall find pasture.
10:10 贼来了，无非是要偷窃、杀害、毁坏；我来了，是要叫羊得生命，并且得的更丰盛。
The thief does not come except to steal and kill and destroy; I have come that they may have life and may have it abundantly.
10:11 我是好牧人，好牧人为羊舍命。
I am the good Shepherd; the good Shepherd lays down His life for the sheep.
10:12 那作雇工的，不是牧人，羊也不是他自己的，他看见狼来，就撇下羊逃跑了，狼抓住羊，把它们赶散了；
He who is a hireling and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees; and the wolf snatches them and
scatters them.
10:13 雇工逃跑，因他是雇工，并不顾念羊。
He flees because he is a hireling and it does not matter to him concerning the sheep.
10:14 我是好牧人，我认识那属我的，那属我的也认识我，
I am the good Shepherd, and I know My own, and My own know Me,
10:15 正如父认识我，我也认识父一样；并且我为羊舍命。
Even as the Father knows Me and I know the Father; and I lay down My life for the sheep.
10:16 我另外有羊，不是属于这圈的；我必须领他们来，他们也要听我的声音，并且要成为一群，归一个牧人了。
And I have other sheep, which are not of this fold; I must lead them also, and they shall hear My voice, and there shall be one flock, one Shepherd.
10:17 父爱我，因我将命舍去，好再取回来。
For this reason the Father loves Me, because I lay down My life that I may take it again.
10:18 没有人夺我的命去，是我自己舍的。我有权柄舍了，也有权柄再取回来；这是我从我父所受的命令。
No one takes it away from Me, but I lay it down of Myself. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it again. This commandment I received from
My Father.
10:19 因这些话，犹太人中又起了分裂。
A division again took place among the Jews because of these words.
10:20 其中有好些人说，祂是被鬼附着，而且疯了，为什么听祂？
1014
And many of them said, He has a demon and is insane. Why do you listen to Him?
10:21 另有人说，这不是鬼附的人所说的话。鬼岂能开瞎子的眼睛？
Others said, These are not the words of one who is demon possessed. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?
10:22 在耶路撒冷有献殿节，那时正是冬天。
At that time the Feast of the Dedication occurred in Jerusalem, and it was winter.
10:23 耶稣在殿里所罗门的廊下行走。
And Jesus was walking in the temple in the portico of Solomon.
10:24 犹太人围着祂，说，你叫我们的心悬疑不定到几时？你若是基督，就明明的告诉我们。
The Jews therefore surrounded Him and said to Him, How long will You hold our soul in suspense? If You are the Christ, tell us plainly.
10:25 耶稣回答他们说，我已经告诉你们，你们不信；我在我父的名里所行的事，为我作见证；
Jesus answered them, I told you, and you do not believe. The works which I do in My Father's name, these testify concerning Me;
10:26 只是你们不信，因为你们不是属我的羊。
But you do not believe, because you are not of My sheep.
10:27 我的羊听我的声音，我也认识他们，他们也跟着我。
My sheep hear My voice, and I know them, and they follow Me;
10:28 我又赐给他们永远的生命，他们必永不灭亡，谁也不能从我手里把他们夺去。
And I give to them eternal life, and they shall by no means perish forever, and no one shall snatch them out of My hand.
10:29 那把他们赐给我的父，比万有都大，谁也不能从我父手里把他们夺去。
My Father, who has given them to Me, is greater than all, and no one can snatch them out of My Father's hand.
10:30 我与父原是一。
I and the Father are one.
10:31 犹太人又拿起石头要打祂。
The Jews again took up stones that they might stone Him.
10:32 耶稣对他们说，我从父显出许多善事给你们看，你们是为那一件事拿石头打我？
Jesus answered them, I have shown you many good works from the Father; for which of these works are you stoning Me?
10:33 犹太人回答说，我们不是为善事拿石头打你，乃是为你的僭妄，又为你是个人，反将自己当作神。
The Jews answered Him, We are not stoning You for a good work, but for blasphemy, and because You, being a man, are making Yourself God.
10:34 耶稣回答他们说，你们的律法上岂不是写着，“我曾说你们是神”么？
Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, "I said, You are gods''?
10:35 经书是不能废掉的，若是神的话所临到的人，祂尚且称他们为神，
If He said they were gods, to whom the word of God came, and the Scripture cannot be broken,
10:36 那么父所分别为圣，又差到世上来的，因祂说，我是神的儿子，你们就说，你说僭妄的话么？
Do you say of Him whom the Father has sanctified and sent into the world, You are blaspheming, because I said, I am the Son of God?
10:37 我若不行我父的事，你们就不必信我；
If I do not do the works of My Father, do not believe Me;
10:38 我若行了，你们纵然不信我，也当信这些事，叫你们可以知道，且一直知道：父在我里面，我也在父里面。
But if I do them, even if you do not believe Me, believe the works so that you may come to know and continue to know that the Father is in Me and I am in the
Father.
10:39 他们又想要捉拿祂，祂却从他们的手中走出来了。
Then they sought again to seize Him, yet He went forth out of their hand.
10:40 耶稣又往约但河外去，到了约翰起初施浸的地方，就住在那里。
And He went away again across the Jordan, to the place where John was baptizing at first, and He remained there.
10:41 有许多人来到祂那里说，约翰没有行过一件神迹，但约翰指着这人所说的一切话都是真实的。
And many came to Him and said, John did no sign, but all the things John said concerning this man were true.
10:42 许多人就在那里信入了耶稣。
And many believed into Him there.
约翰福音 John 第 11 章
11:1 有一个患病的伯大尼人拉撒路，是马利亚和她姐姐马大那村子的人。
Now there was a certain man who was sick, Lazarus from Bethany, of the village of Mary and her sister Martha.
11:2 这马利亚就是那用香膏抹主，又用自己头发擦祂脚的，患病的拉撒路是她的兄弟。
It was that Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped His feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.
11:3 姊妹二人就打发人到耶稣那里说，主阿，看哪，你所爱的人病了。
The sisters therefore sent to Him saying, Lord, behold, he whom You love is sick.
11:4 耶稣听见，就说，这病不至于死，乃是为着神的荣耀，叫神的儿子藉此得荣耀。
But when Jesus heard it, He said, This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, in order that the Son of God may be glorified through it.
11:5 耶稣素来爱马大，和她妹妹，并拉撒路。
Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus.
11:6 祂听见拉撒路病了，就在所居之地，仍住了两天。
When therefore He heard that he was sick, He remained at that time in the place where He was for two days.
11:7 然后对门徒说，我们再往犹太去吧。
Then after this He said to the disciples, Let us go into Judea again.
11:8 门徒对祂说，拉比，犹太人近来想要拿石头打你，你还往那里去么？
The disciples said to Him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone You, and You are going there again?
1015
11:9 耶稣回答说，白昼不是有十二小时么？人若在白昼行走，就不至碰跌，因为看见这世界的光。
Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world.
11:10 若在黑夜行走，就必碰跌，因为那光不在他里面。
But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him.
11:11 耶稣说了这话，随后对他们说，我们的朋友拉撒路睡了，我要去叫醒他。
He said these things, and after this He said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep; but I am going that I may wake him out of sleep.
11:12 门徒对祂说，主阿，他若睡了，就必好了。
The disciples then said to Him, Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover.
11:13 耶稣原是指着拉撒路的死说的，他们却以为祂是指拉撒路安然睡觉说的。
But Jesus had spoken about his death, but they thought that He was speaking about taking rest in sleep.
11:14 所以耶稣就明明的告诉他们说，拉撒路死了。
So Jesus then told them plainly, Lazarus has died.
11:15 我为你们欢喜我不在那里，好叫你们信。现在我们往他那里去吧。
And I rejoice for your sakes that I was not there, so that you may believe; but let us go to him.
11:16 那称为低土马的多马，就对同作门徒的说，我们也去和祂同死吧。
Then Thomas, who is called Didymus, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go, that we may die with Him.
11:17 耶稣到了，就发现拉撒路在坟墓里，已经四天了。
Then when Jesus came, He found that he had already been in the tomb four days.
11:18 伯大尼离耶路撒冷不远，约有三公里。
Now Bethany was near Jerusalem, about fifteen stadia away.
11:19 有好些犹太人来到马大和马利亚那里，要为她们兄弟的事安慰她们。
And many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother.
11:20 马大听见耶稣来了，就去迎接祂，马利亚却仍然坐在家里。
Martha therefore, when she heard that Jesus was coming, went to meet Him; but Mary sat in the house.
11:21 马大对耶稣说，主阿，你若早在这里，我兄弟就不会死。
Then Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if You had been here, my brother would not have died.
11:22 就是现在，我也知道你无论向神求什么，神也必赐给你。
But even now I know that whatever You ask of God, God will give You.
11:23 耶稣对她说，你兄弟必然复活。
Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again.
11:24 马大说，我知道在末日复活的时候，他必复活。
Martha said to Him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection in the last day.
11:25 耶稣对她说，我是复活，我是生命；信入我的人，虽然死了，也必复活；
Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life; he who believes into Me, even if he should die, shall live;
11:26 凡活着信入我的人，必永远不死。你信这话么？
And every one who lives and believes into Me shall by no means die forever. Do you believe this?
11:27 马大对祂说，主阿，是的；我信你是基督，是神的儿子，就是那要来到世界的。
She said to Him, Yes, Lord; I have believed that You are the Christ, the Son of God, He who comes into the world.
11:28 马大说了这话，就去暗暗的叫她妹妹马利亚，说，夫子来了，叫你。
And when she had said this, she went away and called Mary her sister secretly, saying, The Teacher is here and is calling you.
11:29 马利亚听见了，就急忙起来，到耶稣那里去。
And she, when she heard this, rose quickly and came to Him.
11:30 那时，耶稣还没有进村子，仍在马大迎接祂的地方。
Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha met Him.
11:31 那些同马利亚在家里安慰她的犹太人，见她急忙起来出去，就跟着她，以为她要往坟墓那里去哭。
The Jews then who were with her in the house and were consoling her, when they saw that Mary rose up quickly and went out, followed her, supposing that she
was going to the tomb to weep there.
11:32 马利亚到了耶稣那里，看见祂，就俯伏在祂脚前，对祂说，主阿，你若早在这里，我兄弟就不会死。
Then Mary, when she came to where Jesus was, saw Him and fell at His feet, saying to Him, Lord, if You had been here, my brother would not have died.
11:33 耶稣看见她哭，并看见与她同来的犹太人也哭，就灵里悲愤，又受搅扰，
Then Jesus, when He saw her weeping and the Jews who came with her weeping, was moved with indignation in His spirit and was troubled,
11:34 便说，你们把他安放在那里？他们说，主阿，来看。
And He said, Where have you put him? They said to Him, Lord, come and see.
11:35 耶稣哭了。
Jesus wept.
11:36 犹太人就说，你看祂何等爱这人。
The Jews then said, Behold how He loved him!
11:37 其中有人说，这位开了瞎子眼睛的，岂不能叫这人也不死么？
But some of them said, Could not He who opened the eyes of the blind man also have caused that this man would not die?
11:38 耶稣又灵里悲愤，来到坟墓前；那坟墓是个洞，有一块石头挡着。
Jesus therefore, moved with indignation again in Himself, came to the tomb. Now it was a cave, and a stone was lying against it.
11:39 耶稣说，你们把石头挪开。那死人的姐姐马大对祂说，主阿，他已经臭了，因为这是第四天了。
Jesus said, Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of him who was deceased, said to Him, Lord, by now he smells, for it is the fourth day that he is there.
11:40 耶稣说，我不是对你说过，你若信，就必看见神的荣耀么？
Jesus said to her, Did I not tell you that if you believe you will see the glory of God?
11:41 他们就把石头挪开，耶稣举目向上说，父阿，我感谢你，因为你已经听我。
1016
Then they took the stone away. And Jesus lifted up His eyes and said, Father, I thank You that You have heard Me.
11:42 我也知道你常听我，但我说这话，是为周围站着的群众，叫他们信是你差了我来。
And I knew that You always hear Me; but because of the crowd standing around, I said it, that they may believe that You have sent Me.
11:43 说了这话，就大声喊着说，拉撒路，出来！
And when He had said these things, He cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out!
11:44 那死人就出来了，手脚裹着布，脸上包着手巾。耶稣对他们说，解开，让他走。
And he who had died came out, bound hand and foot with cloths, and his face was bound about with a handkerchief. Jesus said to them, Loose him and let him
go.
11:45 那些来到马利亚那里的犹太人，见了耶稣所作的事，就多有信入祂的。
Many of the Jews therefore who had come to Mary and beheld the things that He did believed into Him.
11:46 但其中也有人到法利赛人那里去，将耶稣所作的事告诉他们。
But some of them went away to the Pharisees and told them the things that Jesus did.
11:47 于是祭司长和法利赛人聚集议会，说，这人行好些神迹，我们怎么办？
Then the chief priests and the Pharisees assembled a council and said, What do we do? For this man is doing many signs.
11:48 若这样由着祂，人人都要信入祂，罗马人也要来夺我们的土地和人民。
If we let Him do so, all will believe into Him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation.
11:49 他们当中有一个人，是当年作大祭司的该亚法，对他们说，你们什么都不知道，
But a certain one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said to them, You know nothing at all,
11:50 也不想想，一个人替百姓死，免得全民灭亡，就是你们的益处。
Nor do you take account of the fact that it is expedient for you that one man die for the people and that not the whole nation perish.
11:51 他这话不是从自己说的，是因他当年作大祭司，所以预言耶稣将要替这民死；
But this he did not say from himself, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus was to die for the nation,
11:52 不但替这民死，并要将神四散的儿女，都聚集归一。
And not for the nation only, but that He might also gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad.
11:53 从那日起，他们就商议要杀耶稣。
From that day therefore they took counsel to kill Him.
11:54 所以耶稣不再公开在犹太人中间往来，却离开那里，往靠近旷野的地方去，到了一座城，名叫以法莲，就在那里同门徒住下。
Jesus therefore no longer walked openly among the Jews, but went away from there to the region near the wilderness, into a city called Ephraim, and there He
remained with the disciples.
11:55 犹太人的逾越节近了，有许多人从乡下上耶路撒冷去，要在节前洁净自己。
Now the Passover of the Jews was near, and many went up to Jerusalem out of the country before the Passover in order to purify themselves.
11:56 他们就寻找耶稣，站在殿里彼此说，你们怎么看？祂绝不来过节么？
They then sought Jesus, and said to one another as they stood in the temple, What do you think? That He will not, by any means, come to the feast?
11:57 那时，祭司长和法利赛人早已下了命令，若有人知道耶稣在那里，就要报明，他们好去捉拿祂。
Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where He was, he should disclose it, so that they might arrest Him.
约翰福音 John 第 12 章
12:1 逾越节前六日，耶稣来到伯大尼，就是祂从死人中所复活的拉撒路所在的地方。
Then Jesus, six days before the Passover, came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead.
12:2 有人在那里为耶稣预备晚宴，马大伺候，拉撒路也在那同耶稣坐席的人中。
Therefore they made Him a supper there; and Martha served, but Lazarus was one of the ones reclining at table with Him.
12:3 那时，马利亚就拿着一磅至贵的真哪哒香膏，抹耶稣的脚，又用自己的头发去擦祂的脚，屋里就满了膏的香气。
Then Mary took a pound of ointment, of very valuable pure nard, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped His feet with her hair; and the house was filled with
the fragrance of the ointment.
12:4 祂门徒中的一个，就是那将要出卖耶稣的加略人犹大说，
But Judas Iscariot, one of His disciples, who was about to betray Him, said,
12:5 这香膏为什么不卖三百银币分给穷人？
Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?
12:6 他说这话，不是因他顾念穷人，乃因他是个贼，又带着钱囊，常取其中所存的。
But he said this not because it mattered to him concerning the poor, but because he was a thief, and holding the purse, carried off what was put into it.
12:7 耶稣就说，由她罢，她是为我安葬之日存留的。
Then Jesus said, Leave her alone; she has reserved it for the day of My burial.
12:8 因为常有穷人和你们同在，只是你们不常有我。
For the poor you always have with you, but you do not always have Me.
12:9 有一大群犹太人知道耶稣在那里，就都来了，不但是为耶稣的缘故，也是要看祂从死人中所复活的拉撒路。
Then a great crowd of the Jews found out that He was there, and they came, not because of Jesus only, but that they might also see Lazarus, whom He had
raised from the dead.
12:10 但祭司长商议，连拉撒路也要杀了，
And the chief priests took counsel to kill Lazarus also,
12:11 因为有好些犹太人，为拉撒路的缘故，离去并信入了耶稣。
Because on account of him many of the Jews went away and believed into Jesus.
12:12 第二天，有大批上来过节的群众，听见耶稣将到耶路撒冷，
On the next day, the great crowd who had come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming into Jerusalem,
12:13 就拿着棕树枝，出去迎接祂，喊着说，和散那，在主名里来的以色列王，是当受颂赞的！
1017
Took the branches of the palm trees and went out to meet Him, and cried out, Hosanna! Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel!
12:14 耶稣得了一匹小驴，就骑上，如经上所记：
And Jesus, having found a young donkey, sat on it, as it is written,
12:15 “锡安的女儿，不要惧怕，看哪，你的王骑着驴驹来了。”
"Fear not, daughter of Zion; behold, your King comes, sitting on a donkey's colt.''
12:16 这些事，祂的门徒起先不明白，等到耶稣得了荣耀以后，他们才想起这话是指着祂写的，并且众人果然向祂这样行了。
These things His disciples did not understand at first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written of Him and that they
had done these things to Him.
12:17 当耶稣呼唤拉撒路，叫他从死人中复活，出坟墓的时候，同耶稣在那里的群众，就作见证。
The crowd therefore that was with Him when He called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead testified.
12:18 群众因听见耶稣行了这神迹，就去迎接祂。
For this reason the crowd also went and met Him, because they heard that He had done this sign.
12:19 于是法利赛人彼此说，看哪，你们是徒劳无益，你看世人都跟随祂去了。
The Pharisees then said to one another, You see that you are not doing anything worthwhile; behold, the world has gone after Him.
12:20 那时，上来过节敬拜的人中，有几个希利尼人。
And there were some Greeks among those who went up to worship at the feast.
12:21 他们来到加利利伯赛大的腓力跟前，求他说，先生，我们想要见耶稣。
These then came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, Sir, we wish to see Jesus.
12:22 腓力去告诉安得烈，安得烈同腓力去告诉耶稣。
Philip came and told Andrew; Andrew came, and Philip too, and they told Jesus.
12:23 耶稣回答说，人子得荣耀的时候到了。
And Jesus answered them, saying, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified.
12:24 我实实在在的告诉你们，一粒麦子不落在地里死了，仍旧是一粒；若是死了，就结出许多子粒来。
Truly, truly, I say to you, Unless the grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it abides alone; but if it dies, it bears much fruit.
12:25 爱惜自己魂生命的，就丧失魂生命；在这世上恨恶自己魂生命的，就要保守魂生命归入永远的生命。
He who loves his soul-life loses it; and he who hates his soul-life in this world shall keep it unto eternal life.
12:26 若有人服事我，就当跟从我；我在那里，服事我的人也要在那里。若有人服事我，我父必尊重他。
If anyone serves Me, let him follow Me; and where I am, there also My servant will be. If anyone serves Me, the Father will honor him.
12:27 现今我的魂受搅扰，我说什么才好？父阿，救我脱离这时刻，但我是为此才来到这时刻的。
Now is My soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save Me out of this hour. But for this reason I have come to this hour.
12:28 父阿，愿你荣耀你的名。当时就有声音从天上出来，说，我已经荣耀了，还要再荣耀。
Father, glorify Your name. Then a voice came out of heaven: I have both glorified it and will glorify it again.
12:29 站着的群众听见了，就说，打雷了；另有的说，有天使对祂说话。
The crowd therefore which stood by and heard it said that there had been thunder; others said, An angel has spoken to Him.
12:30 耶稣回答说，这声音不是为我，乃是为你们来的。
Jesus answered and said, This voice has not come for My sake, but for your sake.
12:31 现在这世界受审判，这世界的王要被赶出去。
Now is the judgment of this world; now shall the ruler of this world be cast out.
12:32 我若从地上被举起来，就要吸引万人来归我。
And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men to Myself.
12:33 耶稣这话是指明自己将要怎样死说的。
But He said this signifying by what kind of death He was about to die.
12:34 群众回答说，我们从律法上听见，基督是永远长存的，你怎么说，人子必须被举起来？这人子是谁？
The crowd therefore answered Him, We have heard out of the law that the Christ abides forever; and how is it that You say, The Son of Man must be lifted up?
Who is this Son of Man?
12:35 耶稣就对他们说，光在你们中间，还有不多的时候，应当趁着有光行走，免得黑暗胜过你们；那在黑暗里行走的，不知道往何处去。
Jesus then said to them, The light is still among you a little while. Walk while you have the light so that darkness may not overcome you; and he who walks in the
darkness does not know where he is going.
12:36 你们应当趁着有光，信入这光，使你们成为光的儿子。耶稣说了这话，就离开他们，隐藏了。
While you have the light, believe into the light, so that you may become sons of light. Jesus said these things, and He went away and was hidden from them.
12:37 祂虽然在他们面前行了许多神迹，他们还是不信入祂。
But though He had done so many signs before them, they did not believe into Him,
12:38 这是要应验申言者以赛亚的话，说，“主阿，我们所传给人听的，有谁信？主的膀臂向谁显露？”
That the word of the prophet Isaiah which he said might be fulfilled, "Lord, who has believed our report? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?''
12:39 他们所以不能信，因为以赛亚又说，
For this reason they could not believe, because again Isaiah said,
12:40 “主叫他们瞎了眼，硬了心，免得他们眼睛看见，心里明白，回转过来，我就医治他们。”
"He has blinded their eyes and He hardened their heart, that they might not see with their eyes and understand with their heart and turn, and I will heal them.''
12:41 以赛亚说这些话，是因为看见了祂的荣耀，就指着祂说的。
These things said Isaiah because he saw His glory and spoke concerning Him.
12:42 虽然如此，官长中却有好些信入祂的，只因法利赛人的缘故，就不承认，恐怕被赶出会堂。
Nevertheless even many of the rulers believed into Him, but because of the Pharisees they did not confess Him, so that they would not be put out of the
synagogue;
12:43 这是因为他们爱人的荣耀，过于爱神的荣耀。
For they loved the glory of men more than the glory of God.
12:44 耶稣喊着说，信入我的，不是信入我，乃是信入那差我来的。
1018
But Jesus cried out and said, He who believes into Me does not believe into Me, but into Him who sent Me;
12:45 看见我的，就是看见那差我来的。
And he who beholds Me beholds Him who sent Me.
12:46 我到世上来作光，叫一切信入我的，不住在黑暗里。
I have come as a light into the world, that every one who believes into Me would not remain in darkness.
12:47 若有人听见我的话不遵守，我不审判他；因为我来不是要审判世人，乃是要拯救世人。
And if anyone hears My words and does not keep them, I do not judge him; for I have not come to judge the world, but to save the world.
12:48 弃绝我不领受我话的人，有审判他的，就是我所讲的话，在末日要审判他。
He who rejects Me and does not receive My words has one who judges him; the word which I have spoken, that will judge him in the last day.
12:49 因为我所讲的没有出于自己的；惟有差我来的父，已经给了我命令，叫我说什么，讲什么。
For I have not spoken from Myself; but the Father who sent Me, He Himself has given Me commandment, what to say and what to speak.
12:50 我也知道祂的命令就是永远的生命。所以我所讲的，乃是父怎样告诉我，我就照样讲。
And I know that His commandment is eternal life. The things therefore that I speak, even as the Father has said to Me, so I speak.
约翰福音 John 第 13 章
13:1 逾越节以前，耶稣知道自己离世归父的时候到了。祂既爱世间属自己的人，就爱他们到底。
Now before the Feast of the Passover, Jesus knowing that His hour had come for Him to depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved His own who were
in the world, He loved them to the uttermost.
13:2 吃晚饭的时候，魔鬼已将出卖耶稣的意思，放在西门的儿子加略人犹大心里。
And while supper was taking place, the devil having already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, that he should betray Him,
13:3 耶稣知道父已将万有交在祂手里，且知道自己是从神出来的，又要往神那里去，
Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all into His hands and that He had come forth from God and was going to God,
13:4 就起身离席，脱了外衣，拿一条手巾束腰。
Rose from supper and laid aside His outer garments; and taking a towel, He girded Himself;
13:5 随后把水倒在盆里，就开始洗门徒的脚，并用自己所束的手巾擦干。
Then He poured water into the basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel with which He was girded.
13:6 来到西门彼得那里，彼得对祂说，主阿，你洗我的脚么？
He came then to Simon Peter. Peter said to Him, Lord, do You wash my feet?
13:7 耶稣回答说，我所作的，你如今不晓得，后来必明白。
Jesus answered and said to him, What I am doing you do not know now, but you will know after these things.
13:8 彼得说，你绝不可洗我的脚，永远不可。耶稣回答说，我若不洗你，你就与我无分了。
Peter said to Him, You shall by no means wash my feet forever. Jesus answered him, Unless I wash you, you have no part with Me.
13:9 西门彼得对祂说，主阿，不但我的脚，连手和头也要洗。
Simon Peter said to Him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head.
13:10 耶稣说，凡洗过澡的人，除了脚以外，没有需要洗的，他乃是完全洁净的。你们是洁净的，然而不都是洁净的。
Jesus said to him, He who is bathed has no need except to wash his feet, but is wholly clean; and you are clean, but not all of you.
13:11 耶稣原晓得要出卖祂的是谁，所以说，你们不都是洁净的。
For He knew the one betraying Him; for this reason He said, Not all of you are clean.
13:12 耶稣洗完了他们的脚，就穿上外衣，又坐下，对他们说，我向你们所作的，你们明白么？
Then when He had washed their feet and taken His outer garments and reclined at the table again, He said to them, Do you know what I have done to you?
13:13 你们称呼我夫子，称呼我主，你们说的不错，我本来就是。
You call Me the Teacher and the Lord, and you say rightly, for I am.
13:14 我是主，是夫子，尚且洗你们的脚，你们也当彼此洗脚。
If I then, the Lord and the Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet.
13:15 我给你们作了榜样，叫你们照着我向你们所作的去作。
For I have given you an example so that you also may do even as I have done to you.
13:16 我实实在在的告诉你们，奴仆并不大过主人，受差遣的也不大过差遣他的。
Truly, truly, I say to you, A slave is not greater than his master, nor one who is sent greater than the one who sends him.
13:17 你们既晓得这事，若是去行就有福了。
If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them.
13:18 我这话不是指着你们众人说的，我知道我所拣选的是谁；但这是要应验经书：“同我吃饭的人，举起脚跟踢我。”
I do not speak concerning all of you. I know whom I have chosen, but that the Scripture may be fulfilled, "He who eats bread with Me has lifted up his heel against
Me.''
13:19 现在事情还没有发生，我先告诉你们，叫你们到事情发生的时候，可以信我是。
From now on I am telling you before it happens, so that when it happens, you may believe that I am.
13:20 我实实在在的告诉你们，有人接待我所差遣的，就是接待我；接待我，就是接待那差遣我的。
Truly, truly, I say to you, He who receives whomever I shall send receives Me, and he who receives Me receives Him who sent Me.
13:21 耶稣说了这话，灵里受搅扰，就指证说，我实实在在的告诉你们，你们中间有一个人要出卖我了。
When Jesus had said these things, He became troubled in His spirit, and He testified and said, Truly, truly, I say to you that one of you will betray Me.
13:22 门徒彼此对看，猜不透祂所说的是谁。
The disciples looked at one another, perplexed over whom He was speaking about.
13:23 有一个门徒，是耶稣所爱的，侧身挨近耶稣的怀里。
One of His disciples, whom Jesus loved, was reclining on Jesus' bosom.
13:24 西门彼得向他点头，要他问主是指着谁说的。
1019
Simon Peter therefore nodded to him to inquire who it might be about whom He was speaking.
13:25 那门徒便就势靠着耶稣的胸膛，问祂说，主阿，是谁？
Then he, while reclining thus on Jesus' breast, said to Him, Lord, who is it?
13:26 耶稣回答说，我蘸一点饼给谁，就是谁。耶稣就蘸了一点饼，递给西门的儿子加略人犹大。
Jesus answered, It is he for whom I will dip the morsel and to whom I will give it. And dipping the morsel, He gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon.
13:27 他拿了那点饼以后，撒但就进入他里面。耶稣便对他说，你所要作的快作吧。
And at that moment, after the morsel, Satan entered into him. Jesus therefore said to him, What you do, do quickly.
13:28 同席的人，没有一个知道耶稣为什么对他说这话。
But none of those reclining at table knew why He said this to him.
13:29 有人因犹大带着钱囊，以为耶稣是对他说，你去买我们过节所需用的东西，或是叫他拿什么分给穷人。
For some supposed, since Judas held the purse, that Jesus was saying to him, Buy the things that we have need of for the feast, or that he should give something
to the poor.
13:30 犹大接受了那点饼，就立即出去，那时候是夜间了。
Therefore having taken the morsel, he went out immediately; and it was night.
13:31 他既出去，耶稣就说，如今人子得了荣耀，神在人子身上也得了荣耀。
Then when he went out, Jesus said, Now has the Son of Man been glorified, and God has been glorified in Him.
13:32 神若在人子身上得了荣耀，祂也要在自己身上荣耀人子，并且要快快的荣耀祂。
If God has been glorified in Him, God will also glorify Him in Himself, and He will glorify Him immediately.
13:33 孩子们，我还有不多的时候与你们同在，以后你们要找我，但我曾对犹太人说过，如今也照样对你们说，我所去的地方，你们不能到。
Little children, I am still with you a little while; you will seek Me, and even as I said to the Jews, Where I am going, you cannot come, now I say to you also.
13:34 我赐给你们一条新诫命，乃是叫你们彼此相爱，正如我爱你们，为使你们也彼此相爱。
A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another, even as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
13:35 你们若彼此相爱，众人因此就认出你们是我的门徒了。
By this shall all men know that you are My disciples, if you have love for one another.
13:36 西门彼得问耶稣说，主阿，你往那里去？耶稣回答说，我所去的地方，你现在不能跟我去，后来却要跟我去。
Simon Peter said to Him, Lord, where are You going? Jesus answered him, Where I go you cannot follow Me now, but you will follow later.
13:37 彼得说，主阿，我为什么现在不能跟你去？我愿意为你舍命。
Peter said to Him, Lord, why can't I follow You now? I will lay down my life for You.
13:38 耶稣回答说，你愿意为我舍命么？我实实在在的告诉你，鸡叫以前，你要三次不认我。
Jesus answered, Will you lay down your life for Me? Truly, truly, I say to you, A rooster shall by no means crow until you deny Me three times.
约翰福音 John 第 14 章
14:1 你们心里不要受搅扰，你们当信入神，也当信入我。
Do not let your heart be troubled; believe into God, believe also into Me.
14:2 在我父的家里，有许多住处；若是没有，我早已告诉你们了；我去是为你们预备地方。
In My Father's house are many abodes; if it were not so, I would have told you; for I go to prepare a place for you.
14:3 我若去为你们预备了地方，就再来接你们到我那里，我在那里，叫你们也在那里。
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I am coming again and will receive you to Myself, so that where I am you also may be.
14:4 我往那里去，你们知道那条路。
And where I am going you know the way.
14:5 多马对祂说，主阿，我们不知道你往那里去，怎能知道那条路？
Thomas said to Him, Lord, we do not know where You are going; how can we know the way?
14:6 耶稣说，我就是道路、实际、生命；若不借着我，没有人能到父那里去。
Jesus said to him, I am the way and the reality and the life; no one comes to the Father except through Me.
14:7 你们若认识我，也就认识我的父；从今以后，你们认识祂，并且已经看见祂。
If you had known Me, you would have known My Father also; and henceforth you know Him and have seen Him.
14:8 腓力对祂说，主阿，将父显给我们看，我们就知足了。
Philip said to Him, Lord, show us the Father and it is sufficient for us.
14:9 耶稣对他说，腓力，我与你们同在这样长久，你还不认识我么？人看见了我，就是看见了父；你怎么说，将父显给我们看？
Jesus said to him, Have I been so long a time with you, and you have not known Me, Philip? He who has seen Me has seen the Father; how is it that you say,
Show us the Father?
14:10 我在父里面，父在我里面，你不信么？我对你们所说的话，不是我从自己说的，乃是住在我里面的父作祂自己的事。
Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in Me? The words that I say to you I do not speak from Myself, but the Father who abides in Me does
His works.
14:11 你们当信我，我在父里面，父在我里面；即或不然，也当因我所作的事而信。
Believe Me that I am in the Father and the Father is in Me; but if not, believe because of the works themselves.
14:12 我实实在在的告诉你们，我所作的事，信入我的人也要作，并且要作比这更大的事，因为我往父那里去。
Truly, truly, I say to you, He who believes into Me, the works which I do he shall do also; and greater than these he shall do because I am going to the Father.
14:13 你们在我的名里无论求什么，我必作成，叫父在子身上得荣耀。
And whatever you ask in My name, that I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
14:14 你们若在我的名里求我什么，我必作成。
If you ask Me anything in My name, I will do it.
14:15 你们若爱我，就必遵守我的诫命。
If you love Me, you will keep My commandments.
1020
14:16 我要求父，祂必赐给你们另一位保惠师，叫祂永远与你们同在，
And I will ask the Father, and He will give you another Comforter, that He may be with you forever,
14:17 就是实际的灵，乃世人不能接受的，因为不见祂，也不认识祂；你们却认识祂，因祂与你们同住，且要在你们里面。
Even the Spirit of reality, whom the world cannot receive, because it does not behold Him or know Him; but you know Him, because He abides with you and shall
be in you.
14:18 我不撇下你们为孤儿，我正往你们这里来。
I will not leave you as orphans; I am coming to you.
14:19 还有不多的时候，世人不再看见我，你们却看见我，因为我活着，你们也要活着。
Yet a little while and the world beholds Me no longer, but you behold Me; because I live, you also shall live.
14:20 到那日，你们就知道我在我父里面，你们在我里面，我也在你们里面。
In that day you will know that I am in My Father, and you in Me, and I in you.
14:21 有了我的诫命又遵守的，这人就是爱我的；爱我的必蒙我父爱他，我也要爱他，并且要亲自向他显现。
He who has My commandments and keeps them, he is the one who loves Me; and he who loves Me will be loved by My Father, and I will love him and will
manifest Myself to him.
14:22 犹大（不是那加略人）问耶稣说，主阿，为什么要亲自向我们显现，不向世人显现？
Judas, not Iscariot, said to Him, Lord, and what has happened that You are to manifest Yourself to us and not to the world?
14:23 耶稣回答说，人若爱我，就必遵守我的话，我父也必爱他，并且我们要到他那里去，同他安排住处。
Jesus answered and said to him, If anyone loves Me, he will keep My word, and My Father will love him, and We will come to him and make an abode with him.
14:24 那不爱我的，就不遵守我的话；你们所听见的话不是我的，乃是差我来之父的。
He who does not love Me does not keep My words; and the word which you hear is not Mine, but the Father's who sent Me.
14:25 我还与你们同住的时候，已将这些话对你们说了。
These things I have spoken to you while abiding with you;
14:26 但保惠师，就是父在我的名里所要差来的圣灵，祂要将一切的事教导你们，并且要叫你们想起我对你们所说的一切话。
But the Comforter, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in My name, He will teach you all things and remind you of all the things which I have said to you.
14:27 我留下平安给你们，我将我的平安赐给你们；我所赐给你们的，不像世人所赐的。你们心里不要受搅扰，也不要胆怯。
Peace I leave with you; My peace I give to you; not as the world gives do I give to you. Do not let your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.
14:28 你们听见我曾对你们说，我去，并且我正往你们这里来。你们若爱我，因我往父那里去，就必喜乐，因为父比我大。
You have heard that I said to you, I am going away and I am coming to you. If you loved Me, you would rejoice because I am going to the Father, for the Father is
greater than I.
14:29 现在事情还没有发生，我就告诉了你们，叫你们到事情发生的时候，可以信。
And now I have told you before it happens, so that when it happens you may believe.
14:30 以后我不再同你们多说话，因为这世界的王将到，他在我里面是毫无所有；
I will no longer speak much with you, for the ruler of the world is coming, and in Me he has nothing;
14:31 但要叫世人知道我爱父，并且父怎样吩咐我，我就怎样行。起来，我们离开这里走吧。
But this is so that the world may know that I love the Father, and as the Father commanded Me, so I do. Rise, let us go from here.
约翰福音 John 第 15 章
15:1 我是真葡萄树，我父是栽培的人。
I am the true vine, and My Father is the husbandman.
15:2 凡在我里面不结果子的枝子，祂就剪去；凡结果子的，祂就修理干净，使枝子结果子更多。
Every branch in Me that does not bear fruit, He takes it away; and every branch that bears fruit, He prunes it that it may bear more fruit.
15:3 现在你们因我讲给你们的话，已经干净了。
You are already clean because of the word which I have spoken to you.
15:4 你们要住在我里面，我也住在你们里面。枝子若不住在葡萄树上，自己就不能结果子，你们若不住在我里面，也是这样。
Abide in Me and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides in the vine, so neither can you unless you abide in Me.
15:5 我是葡萄树，你们是枝子；住在我里面的，我也住在他里面，这人就多结果子；因为离了我，你们就不能作什么。
I am the vine; you are the branches. He who abides in Me and I in him, he bears much fruit; for apart from Me you can do nothing.
15:6 人若不住在我里面，就像枝子丢在外面枯干了，人收集起来，扔在火里烧了。
If one does not abide in Me, he is cast out as a branch and is dried up; and they gather them and cast them into the fire, and they are burned.
15:7 你们若住在我里面，我的话也住在你们里面，凡你们所愿意的，祈求就给你们成就。
If you abide in Me and My words abide in you, ask whatever you will, and it shall be done for you.
15:8 你们多结果子，我父就因此得荣耀，你们也就是我的门徒了。
In this is My Father glorified, that you bear much fruit and so you will become My disciples.
15:9 我爱你们，正如父爱我一样；你们要住在我的爱里。
As the Father has loved Me, I also have loved you; abide in My love.
15:10 你们若遵守我的诫命，就住在我的爱里，正如我遵守了我父的命令，住在祂的爱里。
If you keep My commandments, you will abide in My love; even as I have kept My Father's commandments and abide in His love.
15:11 这些事我已经对你们说了，是要叫我的喜乐可以在你们里面，并叫你们的喜乐可以满足。
These things I have spoken to you that My joy may be in you and that your joy may be made full.
15:12 你们要彼此相爱，像我爱你们一样，这就是我的诫命。
This is My commandment, that you love one another even as I have loved you.
15:13 人为朋友舍命，人的爱没有比这个大的。
No one has greater love than this, that one lay down his life for his friends.
15:14 你们若遵行我所吩咐你们的，就是我的朋友了。
1021
You are My friends if you do what I command you.
15:15 以后我不再称你们为奴仆，因为奴仆不知道主人所作的事；我乃称你们为朋友，因我从我父所听见的，都已经告诉你们了。
No longer do I call you slaves, for the slave does not know what his master is doing; but I have called you friends, for all the things which I have heard from My
Father I have made known to you.
15:16 不是你们拣选了我，乃是我拣选了你们，并且立了你们，要你们前去，并要你们结果子，且要你们的果子常存，使你们在我的名里，无论向父求什
么，祂就赐给你们。
You did not choose Me, but I chose you, and I set you that you should go forth and bear fruit and that your fruit should remain, that whatever you ask the Father in
My name, He may give you.
15:17 我将这些事吩咐你们，是要叫你们彼此相爱。
These things I command you that you may love one another.
15:18 世界若恨你们，你们要知道在恨你们以先，世界已经恨我了。
If the world hates you, know that it has hated Me before you.
15:19 你们若属世界，世界必爱属自己的；只因你们不属世界，乃是我从世界中把你们拣选出来，所以世界就恨你们。
If you were of the world, the world would love its own; but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you.
15:20 你们要记得我从前对你们所说的话，奴仆并不大过主人。他们若逼迫了我，也要逼迫你们；若遵守了我的话，也要遵守你们的话。
Remember the word which I said to you, A slave is not greater than his master. If they have persecuted Me, they will persecute you also; if they have kept My
word, they will keep yours also.
15:21 但他们因我的名，要向你们行这一切的事，因为他们不认识那差我来的。
But all these things they will do to you because of My name, because they do not know Him who sent Me.
15:22 我若没有来对他们说话，他们就没有罪；但如今他们的罪无可推诿了。
If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have sin; but now they have no excuse for their sin.
15:23 恨我的，也恨我的父。
He who hates Me hates My Father also.
15:24 我若没有在他们中间行过别人未曾行的事，他们就没有罪；但如今连我与我的父，他们都看见了，也都恨了。
If I did not do among them the works which no one else has done, they would not have sin; but now they have both seen and hated both Me and My Father.
15:25 这不过是要应验他们律法上所写的话：“他们无故的恨我。”
But it is so that the word written in their law may be fulfilled, "They hated Me without cause.''
15:26 但我要从父差保惠师来，就是从父出来实际的灵，祂来了，就要为我作见证；
But when the Comforter comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of reality, who proceeds from the Father, He will testify concerning Me;
15:27 你们也要作见证，因为你们从起初就与我同在。
And you testify also, because from the beginning you have been with Me.
约翰福音 John 第 16 章
16:1 我已将这些事对你们说了，免得你们绊跌。
These things I have spoken to you so that you would not be stumbled.
16:2 人要把你们赶出会堂；并且时候将到，凡杀你们的，就以为是事奉神。
They will put you out of the synagogues; but an hour is coming for every one who kills you to think that he is offering service to God.
16:3 他们这样行，是因未曾认识父，也未曾认识我。
And these things they will do because they have not known the Father nor Me.
16:4 我将这些事对你们说了，是要叫你们到了时候，可以想起我对你们说过了。我起初没有将这些事告诉你们，因为我与你们同在。
But these things I have spoken to you that when their hour comes you may remember them, that I told you of them. Now these things I have not said to you from
the beginning, because I was with you.
16:5 现今我往差我来的那里去，你们中间并没有人问我，你往那里去？
But now I am going to Him who sent Me; and none of you asks Me, Where are You going?
16:6 只因我将这些事对你们说了，你们就满心忧愁。
But because I have spoken these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart.
16:7 然而我将真情告诉你们，我去是与你们有益的。因为我若不去，保惠师就不到你们这里来；我若去，就差祂到你们这里来。
But I tell you the truth, It is expedient for you that I go away; for if I do not go away, the Comforter will not come to you; but if I go, I will send Him to you.
16:8 祂来了，就要为罪，为义，为审判，使世人知罪自责。
And when He comes, He will convict the world concerning sin and concerning righteousness and concerning judgment:
16:9 为罪，是因他们不信入我；
Concerning sin, because they do not believe into Me;
16:10 为义，是因我往父那里去，你们就不再看见我；
And concerning righteousness, because I am going to the Father and you no longer behold Me;
16:11 为审判，是因这世界的王受了审判。
And concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged.
16:12 我还有好些事要告诉你们，但你们现在担当不了。
I have yet many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now.
16:13 只等实际的灵来了，祂要引导你们进入一切的实际；因为祂不是从自己说的，乃是把祂所听见的都说出来，并要把要来的事宣示与你们。
But when He, the Spirit of reality, comes, He will guide you into all the reality; for He will not speak from Himself, but what He hears He will speak; and He will
declare to you the things that are coming.
16:14 祂要荣耀我，因为祂要从我有所领受而宣示与你们。
He will glorify Me, for He will receive of Mine and will declare it to you.
16:15 凡父所有的，都是我的，所以我说，祂从我有所领受而要宣示与你们。
1022
All that the Father has is Mine; for this reason I have said that He receives of Mine and will declare it to you.
16:16 等不多时，你们就不再看见我；再等不多时，你们还要看见我。
A little while and you no longer behold Me, and again a little while and you will see Me.
16:17 有几个门徒就彼此说，祂对我们说，等不多时，你们就不得看见我；再等不多时，你们还要看见我；又说，因我往父那里去；这是什么意思？
Some of His disciples then said to one another, What is this that He says to us, A little while and you do not behold Me, and again a little while and you will see
Me; and, Because I am going to the Father?
16:18 于是他们说，祂说等不多时，到底是什么意思？我们不知道祂说什么。
Therefore they said, What is this that He says, A little while? We do not know what He is talking about.
16:19 耶稣看出他们想要问祂，就说，我说等不多时，你们就不得看见我；再等不多时，你们还要看见我；你们为这话彼此相问么？
Jesus knew that they wanted to ask Him and He said to them, Are you inquiring among yourselves concerning this, that I said, A little while and you do not
behold Me, and again a little while and you will see Me?
16:20 我实实在在的告诉你们，你们将要痛哭哀号，世人倒要喜乐；你们将要忧愁，然而你们的忧愁，要变为喜乐。
Truly, truly, I say to you that you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice; you will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will be turned into joy.
16:21 妇人生产的时候会有忧愁，因为她的时候到了；既生了孩子，就不再记得那苦楚，因为欢喜世上生了一个人。
A woman, when she gives birth, has sorrow because her hour has come; but when she brings forth the little child, she no longer remembers the affliction
because of the joy that a man has been born into the world.
16:22 你们现在也有忧愁，但我要再见你们，你们的心就喜乐了，并且你们的喜乐，没有人能从你们夺去。
Therefore you also now have sorrow; but I will see you again and your heart will rejoice, and no one takes your joy away from you.
16:23 到那日，你们就不问我什么了。我实实在在的告诉你们，你们在我的名里，无论向父求什么，祂必赐给你们。
And in that day you will ask Me nothing. Truly, truly, I say to you, Whatever you ask the Father in My name, He will give to you.
16:24 向来你们没有在我的名里求什么，现在你们求，就必得着，叫你们的喜乐可以满足。
Until now you have asked for nothing in My name; ask and you shall receive, that your joy may be made full.
16:25 这些事，我用比喻对你们说了；时候将到，我不再用比喻对你们说，乃要将父明明的告诉你们。
These things I have spoken to you in parables; an hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in parables, but I will report to you plainly concerning the
Father.
16:26 到那日，你们要在我的名里求；我并不对你们说，我要为你们求父；
In that day you will ask in My name, and I do not say to you that I will ask the Father concerning you,
16:27 父自己爱你们，因为你们已经爱我，又信我是从神出来的。
For the Father Himself loves you, because you have loved Me and have believed that I came forth from God.
16:28 我是出于父而前来的，并且进入世界；我又离开世界，往父那里去。
I came forth out from the Father and have come into the world; again, I am leaving the world and am going to the Father.
16:29 门徒说，看哪，如今你是明说，不是用比喻说了。
His disciples said, Behold, now You are speaking plainly and not saying any parable.
16:30 现在我们晓得你凡事都知道，也不用人问你，所以我们信你是从神出来的。
Now we know that You know all things and have no need that anyone ask You; by this we believe that You came forth from God.
16:31 耶稣回答说，现在你们信么？
Jesus answered them, Do you now believe?
16:32 看哪，时候将到，且是已经到了，你们要分散，各归自己的地方去，留下我独自一人；其实我不是独自一人，因为有父与我同在。
Behold, an hour is coming, and has come, that you will be scattered each to his own place and will leave Me alone; yet I am not alone, because the Father is with
Me.
16:33 我将这些事对你们说了，是要叫你们在我里面有平安。在世上你们有苦难，但你们可以放心，我已经胜了世界。
These things I have spoken to you that in Me you may have peace. In the world you have affliction, but take courage; I have overcome the world.
约翰福音 John 第 17 章
17:1 耶稣说了这些话，就举目望天说，父阿，时候到了，愿你荣耀你的儿子，使儿子也荣耀你；
These things Jesus spoke, and lifting up His eyes to heaven, He said, Father, the hour has come; glorify Your Son that the Son may glorify You;
17:2 正如你曾赐给祂权柄，管理一切属肉体的人，叫祂将永远的生命赐给一切你所赐给祂的人。
Even as You have given Him authority over all flesh to give eternal life to all whom You have given Him.
17:3 认识你独一的真神，并你所差来的耶稣基督，这就是永远的生命。
And this is eternal life, that they may know You, the only true God, and Him whom You have sent, Jesus Christ.
17:4 我在地上已经荣耀你，你交给我要我作的工，我已经完成了。
I have glorified You on earth, finishing the work which You have given Me to do.
17:5 父阿，现在求你使我与你同得荣耀，就是未有世界以先，我与你同有的荣耀。
And now, glorify Me along with Yourself, Father, with the glory which I had with You before the world was.
17:6 你从世上赐给我的人，我已将你的名显明与他们。他们本是你的，你将他们赐给我，他们也遵守了你的话。
I have manifested Your name to the men whom You gave Me out of the world. They were Yours, and You gave them to Me, and they have kept Your word.
17:7 如今他们知道，凡你所赐给我的，都是从你来的；
Now they have come to know that all that You have given Me is from You,
17:8 因为你所赐给我的话，我已经赐给他们，他们也领受了，又确实知道我是从你出来的，并且信你差了我来。
For the words which You gave Me I have given to them, and they received them and knew truly that I came forth from You, and they have believed that You sent
Me.
17:9 我为他们祈求，不为世人祈求，乃为你所赐给我的人祈求，因他们本是你的。
I ask concerning them; I do not ask concerning the world, but concerning those whom You have given Me, for they are Yours;
17:10 凡是我的都是你的，你的也是我的，并且我已经在他们身上得了荣耀。
1023
And all that is Mine is Yours, and Yours Mine; and I have been glorified in them.
17:11 我不再在世上，他们却在世上，我往你那里去。圣父阿，求你在你的名，就是你所赐给我的名里，保守他们，使他们成为一，像我们一样。
And I am no longer in the world; yet they are in the world, and I am coming to You. Holy Father, keep them in Your name, which You have given to Me, that they
may be one even as We are.
17:12 我与他们同在的时候，我在你的名，就是你所赐给我的名里，保守了他们，也护卫了他们，其中除了那灭亡之子，没有一个灭亡的，好叫经书得着
应验。
When I was with them, I kept them in Your name, which You have given to Me, and I guarded them; and not one of them perished, except the son of perdition,
that the Scripture might be fulfilled.
17:13 现在我往你那里去，我还在世上说这话，是叫他们里面充满我的喜乐。
But now I am coming to You, and these things I speak in the world that they may have My joy made full in themselves.
17:14 我已将你的话赐给他们，世界又恨他们，因为他们不属世界，正如我不属世界一样。
I have given them Your word, and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world even as I am not of the world.
17:15 我不求你使他们离开世界，只求你保守他们脱离那恶者。
I do not ask that You would take them out of the world, but that You would keep them out of the hands of the evil one.
17:16 他们不属世界，正如我不属世界一样。
They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.
17:17 求你用真理圣别他们，你的话就是真理。
Sanctify them in the truth; Your word is truth.
17:18 你怎样差我到世上，我也照样差他们到世上。
As You have sent Me into the world, I also have sent them into the world.
17:19 我为他们的缘故，圣别自己，使他们也在真理中得以圣别。
And for their sake I sanctify Myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth.
17:20 我不但为这些人祈求，也为那些因他们的话信入我的人祈求，
And I do not ask concerning these only, but concerning those also who believe into Me through their word,
17:21 使他们都成为一；正如你父在我里面，我在你里面，使他们也在我们里面，叫世人可以信你差了我来。
That they all may be one; even as You, Father, are in Me and I in You, that they also may be in Us; that the world may believe that You have sent Me.
17:22 你所赐给我的荣耀，我已赐给他们，使他们成为一，正如我们是一一样。
And the glory which You have given Me I have given to them, that they may be one, even as We are one;
17:23 我在他们里面，你在我里面，使他们被成全成为一，叫世人知道是你差了我来，并且知道你爱他们如同爱我一样。
I in them, and You in Me, that they may be perfected into one, that the world may know that You have sent Me and have loved them even as You have loved Me.
17:24 父阿，我在那里，愿你所赐给我的人，也同我在那里，叫他们看见你所赐给我的荣耀，因为创立世界以前，你已经爱我了。
Father, concerning that which You have given Me, I desire that they also may be with Me where I am, that they may behold My glory, which You have given Me,
for You loved Me before the foundation of the world.
17:25 公义的父阿，世人未曾认识你，我却认识你，这些人也知道你差了我来。
Righteous Father, though the world has not known You, yet I have known You, and these have known that You have sent Me.
17:26 我已叫他们认识了你的名，并且还要叫他们认识，使你爱我的爱在他们里面，我也在他们里面。
And I have made Your name known to them and will yet make it known, that the love with which You have loved Me may be in them, and I in them.
约翰福音 John 第 18 章
18:1 耶稣说了这些话，就同门徒出去，过了汲沦溪，在那里有一个园子，祂和门徒进去了。
When Jesus had said these things, He went forth with His disciples across the brook Kedron, where there was a garden, into which He entered as well as His
disciples.
18:2 出卖耶稣的犹大也知道那地方，因为耶稣同门徒时常到那里聚集。
And Judas also, who was betraying Him, knew the place, for Jesus often gathered there with His disciples.
18:3 犹大领了一队兵，和祭司长并法利赛人的差役，拿着火把、灯笼、武器，来到那里。
Then Judas, having gotten the cohort and some attendants from the chief priests and Pharisees, came there with torches and lamps and weapons.
18:4 耶稣知道将要临到自己的一切事，就出来，对他们说，你们找谁？
Jesus therefore, knowing all the things that were coming upon Him, went forth and said to them, Whom do you seek?
18:5 他们回答说，拿撒勒人耶稣。祂说，我是。出卖祂的犹大也同他们站在一起。
They answered Him, Jesus the Nazarene. He said to them, I am. And Judas also, who was betraying Him, was standing with them.
18:6 耶稣一说，我是，他们就退后，倒在地上。
When therefore He said to them, I am, they drew back and fell to the ground.
18:7 祂又问他们说，你们找谁？他们说，拿撒勒人耶稣。
Then again He asked them, Whom do you seek? And they said, Jesus the Nazarene.
18:8 耶稣回答说，我已经告诉你们，我是；你们若找我，就让这些人走吧。
Jesus answered, I told you that I am; if therefore you seek Me, let these go away,
18:9 这是要应验耶稣从前所说的话：你所赐给我的人，我一个也没有失落。
That the word might be fulfilled which He spoke, Of those whom You have given Me, I have not lost one.
18:10 西门彼得带着一把刀，就拔出来，将大祭司的奴仆砍了一刀，削掉他的右耳，那奴仆名叫马勒古。
Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and struck the slave of the high priest and cut off his right ear; and the slave's name was Malchus.
18:11 耶稣就对彼得说，收刀入鞘吧！我父所给我的那杯，我岂可不喝？
Jesus therefore said to Peter, Put the sword into its sheath. The cup which the Father has given Me, shall I not drink it?
18:12 那队兵和千夫长并犹太人的差役，就捉住耶稣，把祂捆绑起来，
Then the cohort and the commander and the attendants of the Jews seized Jesus and bound Him
1024
18:13 先带到亚那跟前，因为亚那是当年大祭司该亚法的岳父。
And led Him away to Annas first; for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was high priest that year.
18:14 这该亚法就是从前给犹太人出过主意说，一个人替百姓死是有益的那位。
Now it was Caiaphas who had advised the Jews that it was expedient for one man to die for the people.
18:15 西门彼得跟着耶稣，另有一个门徒也跟着。那门徒是大祭司所认识的，他就同耶稣进了大祭司的院子。
And Simon Peter followed Jesus, as well as another disciple. And that disciple was known to the high priest, and he entered with Jesus into the court of the high
priest;
18:16 彼得却站在门外。大祭司所认识的那个门徒出来，和看门的使女说了一声，就领彼得进去。
But Peter stood at the door outside. Then the other disciple, the one known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the maid who kept the door and brought
Peter in.
18:17 那看门的使女对彼得说，你不也是这人的门徒么？他说，我不是。
Then the maid who kept the door said to Peter, Are you not also one of this man's disciples? He said, I am not.
18:18 奴仆和差役，因为寒冷，就生了炭火，站着烤火，彼得也同他们站着烤火。
Now the slaves and the attendants were standing there, having made a fire of coals, for it was cold, and they were warming themselves; and Peter also was with
them, standing and warming himself.
18:19 大祭司就盘问耶稣关于祂门徒和祂教训的事。
The high priest then questioned Jesus concerning His disciples and concerning His teaching.
18:20 耶稣回答说，我向来是公开的对世人说话；我常在众多犹太人聚集的会堂和殿里施教，在暗地里我并没有说什么。
Jesus answered him, I have spoken openly to the world; I always taught in the synagogue and in the temple, where all the Jews come together, and I spoke
nothing in secret.
18:21 你为什么问我？可以问那听见的人，我对他们说的是什么。看哪，我所说的，他们都知道。
Why do you question Me? Question those who have heard Me, concerning what I spoke to them; behold, these know what I said.
18:22 耶稣说了这些话，旁边站着的一个差役，用手掌打祂，说，你这样回答大祭司么？
And when He said these things, one of the attendants standing by slapped Jesus, saying, Is that how You answer the high priest?
18:23 耶稣回答说，我若说的不对，你可以指证那里不对；若说的对，你为什么打我？
Jesus answered him, If I have spoken wrongly, testify concerning the wrong; but if rightly, why do you strike Me?
18:24 亚那把耶稣仍然捆着，解到大祭司该亚法那里去。
Annas then sent Him bound to Caiaphas the high priest.
18:25 西门彼得正站着烤火，有人对他说，你不也是祂的门徒么？彼得不承认，说，我不是。
Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. Then they said to him, Are you not also one of His disciples? He denied and said, I am not.
18:26 有大祭司的一个奴仆，是彼得削掉耳朵那人的亲属，说，我不是看见你同祂在园子里么？
One of the slaves of the high priest, who was a relative of him whose ear Peter had cut off, said, Did I not see you in the garden with Him?
18:27 彼得又不承认，立刻鸡就叫了。
Then Peter denied again, and immediately a rooster crowed.
18:28 众人将耶稣从该亚法那里解往总督府去，那时是清早。他们自己却不进总督府去，恐怕染了污秽，不能吃逾越节的筵席。
Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas into the praetorium, and it was early morning. And they themselves did not enter into the praetorium, so that they would not
be defiled, but might eat the passover.
18:29 彼拉多就出来，到他们那里，说，你们拿什么控告这人？
Pilate therefore went outside to them and said, What accusation do you bring against this man?
18:30 他们回答说，这人若不是作恶的，我们就不会把祂交给你。
They answered and said to him, If this man were not doing evil, we would not have delivered Him to you.
18:31 彼拉多对他们说，你们自己把祂带去，按着你们的律法审判祂吧。犹太人说，我们杀人是不可的。
Pilate said then to them, You take Him and judge Him according to your law. The Jews said to him, It is not lawful for us to kill anyone,
18:32 这是要应验耶稣所说，那指明祂将要怎样死的话。
That the word of Jesus might be fulfilled which He spoke, signifying by what kind of death He was to die.
18:33 彼拉多又进了总督府，叫耶稣来，对祂说，你是犹太人的王么？
Pilate therefore entered again into the praetorium and called for Jesus. And he said to Him, You are the King of the Jews?
18:34 耶稣回答说，这话是你由于自己说的，还是别人对你论到我说的？
Jesus answered, Are you saying this of yourself, or did others tell you about Me?
18:35 彼拉多说，我岂是犹太人？你本国的人和祭司长把你交给我，你究竟作了什么事？
Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Your nation and its chief priests have delivered You to me. What have You done?
18:36 耶稣回答说，我的国不属这世界；我的国若属这世界，我的臣仆必要争战，使我不至于被交给犹太人；只是我的国不是来自这里的。
Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If My kingdom were of this world, My attendants would be struggling so that I would not be delivered to the
Jews; but as it is, My kingdom is not from here.
18:37 彼拉多就对祂说，这样，你不是王么？耶稣回答说，你说我是王，我为此而生，也为此来到世间，为要给真理作见证；凡属真理的人，就听我的声
音。
Pilate said therefore to Him, So then You are a king? Jesus answered, You say that I am a king. For this I have been born, and for this I have come into the world,
that I would testify to the truth. Every one who is of the truth hears My voice.
18:38 彼拉多对祂说，真理是什么？说了这话，又出来到犹太人那里，对他们说，我查不出祂有什么该定罪的。
Pilate said to Him, What is truth? And having said this, he again went out to the Jews and said to them, I find no fault in Him.
18:39 但你们有个规矩，在逾越节要我给你们释放一个人。你们要我给你们释放犹太人的王么？
But you have a custom that I release one man to you at the Passover. Is it your will therefore that I release to you the King of the Jews?
18:40 他们又喊着说，不要这人，要巴拉巴。这巴拉巴是个强盗。
Then they cried out again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber.
1025
约翰福音 John 第 19 章
19:1 当下，彼拉多将耶稣带去鞭打了。
Therefore at that time Pilate took Jesus and scourged Him.
19:2 兵丁用荆棘编作冠冕，戴在祂头上，给祂穿上紫袍，
And the soldiers wove a crown of thorns and put it on His head, and they threw a purple garment around Him.
19:3 又来到祂跟前，说，犹太人的王！愿你喜乐！他们就用手掌打祂。
And they came to Him and said, Rejoice, King of the Jews! and slapped Him.
19:4 彼拉多又出来对众人说，看哪，我把祂带出来给你们，叫你们知道我查不出祂有什么该定罪的。
And Pilate went outside again and said to them, Behold, I am bringing Him out to you that you may know that I find no fault in Him.
19:5 耶稣出来，戴着荆棘冠冕，穿着紫袍。彼拉多对他们说，看哪，这个人。
Then Jesus came out, wearing the thorny crown and the purple garment. And he said to them, Behold, the man!
19:6 祭司长和差役看见祂，就喊着说，钉祂十字架！钉祂十字架！彼拉多说，你们自己把祂带去钉十字架吧，因为我查不出祂有什么该定罪的。
When therefore the chief priests and the attendants saw Him, they cried out, saying, Crucify! Crucify! Pilate said to them, You take Him and crucify Him, for I do
not find fault in Him.
19:7 犹太人回答说，我们有律法，按那律法祂是该死的，因祂自命为神的儿子。
The Jews answered him, We have a law, and according to that law He ought to die because He made Himself the Son of God.
19:8 彼拉多听见这话，就越发害怕，
When Pilate therefore heard this word, he became frightened the more,
19:9 又进总督府，对耶稣说，你是那里来的？耶稣却不回答。
And he entered into the praetorium again and said to Jesus, Where are You from? But Jesus gave him no answer.
19:10 彼拉多对祂说，你不对我说话么？你岂不知我有权柄释放你，也有权柄把你钉十字架么？
Therefore Pilate said to Him, You do not speak to me? Do You not know that I have authority to release You and I have authority to crucify You?
19:11 耶稣回答说，若不是从上头赐给你的，你就毫无权柄办我；所以把我交给你的那人，罪更重了。
Jesus answered him, You would have no authority against Me if it were not given to you from above; for this reason, he who has delivered Me to you has the
greater sin.
19:12 从此彼拉多想要释放耶稣，无奈犹太人喊着说，你若释放这个人，就不是该撒的朋友；凡自命为王的，就是反对该撒了。
From then on, Pilate sought to release Him, but the Jews cried out, saying, If you release this man, you are not a friend of Caesar; every one who makes himself a
king opposes Caesar.
19:13 彼拉多听见这些话，就带耶稣出来，到了一个地方，名叫铺华石处，希伯来话叫厄巴大，就在那里坐在审判台上。
Pilate therefore, when he heard these words, brought Jesus outside and sat down on the judgment seat in a place called the Pavement, but in Hebrew,
Gabbatha.
19:14 那日是逾越节的预备日，约在早晨六时。彼拉多对犹太人说，看哪，你们的王！
Now it was the day of preparation for the Passover; it was about the sixth hour. And he said to the Jews, Behold, your King!
19:15 他们喊着说，除掉祂，除掉祂，钉祂十字架！彼拉多对他们说，我可以把你们的王钉十字架么？祭司长回答说，除了该撒，我们没有王。
They cried out then, Take Him away! Take Him away! Crucify Him! Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your King? The chief priests answered, We have no king
except Caesar.
19:16 于是彼拉多将耶稣交给他们钉十字架。
Therefore at that time he delivered Him to them that He might be crucified. Therefore they took Jesus.
19:17 他们就把耶稣带了去。耶稣自己背着十字架出来，到了一个地方，名叫髑髅地，希伯来话叫各各他。
And bearing the cross for Himself, He went out to the place called the Place of a Skull, which is called in Hebrew, Golgotha,
19:18 他们就在那里钉祂十字架，另有两个人和祂同钉，一边一个，耶稣在中间。
Where they crucified Him, and with Him two others, on this side and that, and Jesus in the middle.
19:19 彼拉多又写了一个标示，安在十字架上，写的是：犹太人的王拿撒勒人耶稣。
And Pilate wrote a notice also and put it on the cross; and it was written, Jesus The Nazarene, The King Of The JEWS.
19:20 有许多犹太人念这标示，因为耶稣被钉十字架的地方与城相近，并且这标示是用希伯来文、罗马文、希利尼文写的。
This notice therefore many of the Jews read, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Hebrew, in Latin, and in Greek.
19:21 犹太人的祭司长就对彼拉多说，不要写犹太人的王；要写这个人自己说，我是犹太人的王。
The chief priests of the Jews therefore said to Pilate, Do not write, The King of the Jews, but that He said, I am the King of the JEWS.
19:22 彼拉多回答说，我所写的，我已经写上了。
Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written.
19:23 兵丁既将耶稣钉在十字架上，就拿祂的外衣分为四分，每兵一分，又拿祂的里衣，这里衣原没有缝，是上下一片织成的。
The soldiers then, when they had crucified Jesus, took His garments and made four parts, a part for each soldier, and they took the tunic as well. But the tunic
was seamless, woven from the top throughout.
19:24 他们就彼此说，我们不要撕开，只要拈阄，看谁得着。这是要应验经书：“他们分了我的外衣，又为我的衣服拈阄。”兵丁果然作了这事。
They said therefore to one another, Let us not tear it, but let us cast lots for it to see whose it shall be, that the Scripture might be fulfilled which says, "They divided
My garments among themselves, and for My clothing they cast lots.'' So then the soldiers did these things.
19:25 站在耶稣十字架旁边的，有祂母亲，与祂母亲的姊妹，并革罗罢的妻子马利亚，和抹大拉的马利亚。
And there were standing by the cross of Jesus His mother and His mother's sister and Mary the wife of Clopas and Mary the Magdalene.
19:26 耶稣看见祂母亲和祂所爱的那门徒站在旁边，就对祂母亲说，妇人，看哪，你的儿子。
Then Jesus, seeing His mother and the disciple whom He loved standing by, said to His mother, Woman, behold, your son.
19:27 又对那门徒说，看哪，你的母亲。从那时候，那门徒就接她到自己家里去了。
Then He said to the disciple, Behold, your mother. And from that hour the disciple took her into his own home.
19:28 这事以后，耶稣知道各样的事已经成就，为要成就经书，就说，我渴了。
After this, Jesus, knowing that all things had now been finished and so that the Scripture might be fulfilled, said, I thirst.
19:29 有一个器皿盛满了醋，放在那里；他们就拿海绵蘸满了醋，绑在牛膝草上，送到祂口边。
1026
There was lying there a vessel full of vinegar; therefore, they put a sponge full of vinegar on hyssop and brought it to His mouth.
19:30 耶稣受了那醋，就说，成了！便低下头，将灵交付了。
Then when Jesus had taken the vinegar, He said, It is finished! And He bowed His head and delivered up His spirit.
19:31 犹太人因这日是预备日，又因那安息日是个大日，就求彼拉多叫人打断他们的腿，把他们拿去，免得身体当安息日留在十字架上。
Then the Jews, since it was the day of preparation and so that the bodies might not remain on the cross on the Sabbath (for that Sabbath day was a great
Sabbath), requested of Pilate that their legs might be broken and that they might be taken away.
19:32 于是兵丁来，把头一个人的腿，并与耶稣同钉另一个人的腿，都打断了；
The soldiers therefore came and broke the legs of the first man and of the other man who had been crucified with Him.
19:33 只是来到耶稣那里，见祂已经死了，就不打断祂的腿。
But coming to Jesus, when they saw that He had already died, they did not break His legs;
19:34 惟有一个兵用枪扎祂的肋旁，随即有血和水流出来。
But one of the soldiers pierced His side with a spear, and immediately there came out blood and water.
19:35 那看见的人就作见证，他的见证也是真实的，并且他知道自己所说的是真实的，叫你们也可以信。
And he who has seen this has testified, and his testimony is true; and he knows that he says what is true, that you also may believe.
19:36 这些事发生，为要应验经书：“祂的骨头，一根也不可折断。”
For these things happened that the Scripture might be fulfilled: "No bone of His shall be broken.''
19:37 另有一处经书说，“他们要仰望自己所扎的人。”
And again another Scripture says, "They shall look on Him whom they pierced.''
19:38 这些事以后，有亚利马太人约瑟，是耶稣的门徒，只因怕犹太人，就暗暗的作门徒，他求彼拉多，要领耶稣的身体，彼拉多准许了，他就来把耶稣
的身体领去。
And after these things Joseph from Arimathea, being a disciple of Jesus, but a hidden one for fear of the Jews, requested of Pilate that he might take the body of
Jesus away; and Pilate allowed it. He came therefore and took His body away.
19:39 又有先前夜间到耶稣那里的尼哥底母也来了，带着没药与沉香调和的香料，约有一百磅。
And Nicodemus, he who had come to Him the first time by night, came also, bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes of about a hundred pounds.
19:40 他们就领了耶稣的身体，照犹太人殡葬的规矩，用细麻布加上香料裹好。
Therefore they took the body of Jesus and bound it in linen cloths with the spices, as is the custom of the Jews for burying.
19:41 在耶稣钉十字架的地方，有一个园子，园里有一座新坟墓，是从来没有葬过人的。
Now in the place where He was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb, in which no one had ever yet been laid.
19:42 只因是犹太人的预备日，又因那坟墓近，他们就把耶稣安放在那里。
Therefore because of the day of preparation for the Jews and because the tomb was near, they laid Jesus there.
约翰福音 John 第 20 章
20:1 七日的第一日清早，天还黑的时候，抹大拉的马利亚来到坟墓那里，看见石头从坟墓挪开了。
Now on the first day of the week, Mary the Magdalene came early to the tomb while it was yet dark and saw the stone taken away from the tomb.
20:2 她就跑到西门彼得，和耶稣所爱的那另一个门徒那里，对他们说，有人把主从坟墓里取了去，我们不知道他们把祂放在那里。
She ran therefore and came to Simon Peter and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved and said to them, They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we
do not know where they have laid Him.
20:3 彼得和那另一个门徒就出来，往坟墓那里去。
Peter therefore went forth, as well as the other disciple, and came to the tomb.
20:4 两个人同跑，那另一个门徒跑在前头，比彼得更快，先到了坟墓；
And the two ran together, yet the other disciple ran ahead faster than Peter and came first to the tomb.
20:5 低头往里看，见细麻布还放着，只是没有进去。
And stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloths lying there; however, he did not enter.
20:6 西门彼得随后也到了，进坟墓里去，就看见细麻布还放着，
Then Simon Peter also came, following him, and entered into the tomb; and he beheld the linen cloths lying there
20:7 又看见耶稣的裹头巾，没有和细麻布放在一起，是另在一处卷着。
And the handkerchief which had been over His head, not lying with the linen cloths, but folded up in one place apart.
20:8 那时，先到坟墓的那另一个门徒也进去，看见就信了。
At that time therefore the other disciple also, who came first to the tomb, entered, and he saw and believed;
20:9 因为他们还不明白经书所说的，就是耶稣必须从死人中复活。
For as yet they did not understand the Scripture, that He had to rise from among the dead.
20:10 于是两个门徒又回自己的住处去了。
The disciples therefore went away again to their own home.
20:11 马利亚却站在坟墓外面哭，哭的时候，低头往坟墓里看，
But Mary stood outside at the tomb weeping. Then as she wept, she stooped to look into the tomb
20:12 就见两个天使，身穿白衣，在安放耶稣身体的地方坐着，一个在头，一个在脚。
And beheld two angels in white sitting, one at the head and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain.
20:13 天使对她说，妇人，你为什么哭？她对他们说，有人把我的主取了去，我不知道他们把祂放在那里。
And they said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? She said to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid Him.
20:14 她说了这话，就转过身来，看见耶稣站着，却不知道是耶稣。
When she said these things, she turned backward and beheld Jesus standing there, yet she did not know that it was Jesus.
20:15 耶稣对她说，妇人，为什么哭？你找谁？马利亚以为是看园的，就对祂说，先生，若是你把祂移走了，请告诉我，你把祂放在那里，我好去取祂。
Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? She, supposing that He was the gardener, said to Him, Sir, if You have carried Him
away, tell me where You have laid Him, and I will take Him away.
1027
20:16 耶稣对她说，马利亚。马利亚就转过身来，用希伯来话对祂说，拉波尼（意思就是夫子）。
Jesus said to her, Mary! She turned and said to Him in Hebrew, Rabboni! (which means Teacher).
20:17 耶稣对她说，不要摸我，因我还没有升到父那里；你往我弟兄那里去，告诉他们说，我要升到我的父，也是你们的父那里，到我的神，也是你们的
神那里。
Jesus said to her, Do not touch Me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father; but go to My brothers and say to them, I ascend to My Father and your Father, and
My God and your God.
20:18 抹大拉的马利亚就去告诉门徒说，我已经看见主了；并且告诉他们主也对她说了这些话。
Mary the Magdalene came, announcing to the disciples, I have seen the Lord, and that He had said these things to her.
20:19 那日（就是七日的第一日）晚上，门徒所在的地方，因怕犹太人，门都关了；耶稣来站在当中，对他们说，愿你们平安。
When therefore it was evening on that day, the first day of the week, and while the doors were shut where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus came
and stood in the midst and said to them, Peace be to you.
20:20 说了这话，就把手和肋旁指给他们看。门徒看见主，就喜乐了。
And when He had said this, He showed them His hands and His side. The disciples therefore rejoiced at seeing the Lord.
20:21 耶稣又对他们说，愿你们平安，父怎样差遣了我，我也照样差遣你们。
Then Jesus said to them again, Peace be to you; as the Father has sent Me, I also send you.
20:22 说了这话，就向他们吹入一口气，说，你们受圣灵。
And when He had said this, He breathed into them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit.
20:23 你们赦免谁的罪，谁的罪就赦免了；你们留下谁的罪，谁的罪就留下了。
Whosever sins you forgive, they are forgiven them; and whosever sins you retain, they are retained.
20:24 那十二个门徒中，有一个称为低土马的多马，耶稣来的时候，他没有和他们在一起。
But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came.
20:25 其他的门徒就对他说，我们已经看见主了。多马却对他们说，除非我看见祂手上的钉痕，用指头探入那钉痕，又用手探入祂的肋旁，我总不信。
The other disciples therefore said to him, We have seen the Lord! But he said to them, Unless I see in His hands the mark of the nails and put my finger into the
mark of the nails and put my hand into His side, I will by no means believe.
20:26 过了八日，耶稣的门徒又在屋里，多马也和他们在一起。门虽都是关的，耶稣却来站在当中，说，愿你们平安。
And after eight days, His disciples were again within, and Thomas was with them. Jesus came, though the doors were shut, and stood in the midst and said,
Peace be to you.
20:27 就对多马说，伸过你的指头来，摸我的手；伸出你的手来，探入我的肋旁。不要不信，总要信。
Then He said to Thomas, Bring your finger here and see My hands, and bring your hand and put it into My side; and do not be unbelieving, but believing.
20:28 多马回答祂说，我的主，我的神。
Thomas answered and said to Him, My Lord and my God!
20:29 耶稣对他说，你因看见了我才信，那没有看见就信的有福了。
Jesus said to him, Because you have seen Me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and have believed.
20:30 耶稣在门徒面前，另外行了许多神迹，没有记在这书上。
Moreover indeed many other signs also Jesus did before His disciples, which are not written in this book.
20:31 但记这些事，要叫你们信耶稣是基督，是神的儿子；并且叫你们信了，就可以在祂的名里得生命。
But these have been written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing, you may have life in His name.
约翰福音 John 第 21 章
21:1 这些事以后，耶稣在提比哩亚海边，又向门徒显现如下：
After these things Jesus manifested Himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias. And He manifested Himself in this way:
21:2 有西门彼得，和称为低土马的多马，并加利利的迦拿人拿但业，还有西庇太的两个儿子，又另有两个门徒，都在一处。
Simon Peter and Thomas, called Didymus, and Nathanael from Cana of Galilee and the sons of Zebedee and two others of His disciples were there together.
21:3 西门彼得对他们说，我打鱼去。他们说，我们也和你同去。他们就出去，上了船，那一夜并没有打着什么。
Simon Peter said to them, I am going fishing. They said to him, We also are coming with you. They went forth and got into the boat, and that night they caught
nothing.
21:4 天将亮的时候，耶稣站在岸上，门徒却不知道是耶稣。
Now as soon as the morning broke, Jesus stood on the shore; however the disciples did not know that it was Jesus.
21:5 耶稣就对他们说，孩子们，你们有鱼吃么？他们回答祂说，没有。
Then Jesus said to them, Little children, you do not have any fish to eat, do you? They answered Him, No.
21:6 耶稣对他们说，把网撒在船的右边，就必得着。他们便撒下网去，竟拉不上来，因为鱼甚多。
And He said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some. They cast therefore, and they were no longer able to haul it in because of
the abundance of fish.
21:7 耶稣所爱的那门徒就对彼得说，是主！那时西门彼得赤着身子，一听见是主，就束上外衣，跳进海里。
Then that disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, It is the Lord! Therefore when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put his outer garment around himself,
for he was naked; and he threw himself into the sea.
21:8 其余的门徒离岸不远，约有二百肘，就在小船上把那网鱼拉过来。
But the other disciples came in the little boat, for they were not far from the land, but about two hundred cubits away, dragging the net of fish.
21:9 他们上了岸，就看见那里放着炭火，上面放着鱼和饼。
Then when they got out onto the land, they saw a fire of coals laid there, and fish lying on it and bread.
21:10 耶稣对他们说，把刚才打的鱼，拿几条来。
Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish that you have just now caught.
21:11 西门彼得就去，把网拉到岸上，那网满了大鱼，共一百五十三条；鱼虽这样多，网却没有破。
Simon Peter therefore went up and hauled the net to the land full of large fish, a hundred and fifty-three; and though there were so many, the net was not torn.
1028
21:12 耶稣对他们说，来吃早饭。门徒中没有一个敢问祂，你是谁？因为知道是主。
Jesus said to them, Come and have breakfast. But none of the disciples dared to inquire of Him, Who are you? knowing that it was the Lord.
21:13 耶稣就来拿饼给他们，也照样拿鱼给他们。
Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and the fish likewise.
21:14 耶稣从死人中复活以后，向门徒显现，这是第三次。
This was now the third time that Jesus was manifested to the disciples after He had been raised from the dead.
21:15 他们吃完了早饭，耶稣对西门彼得说，约翰的儿子西门，你爱我比这些更深么？彼得对祂说，主阿，是的，你知道我爱你。耶稣对他说，你喂养我
的小羊。
Then when they had eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love Me more than these? He said to Him, Yes, Lord, You know that I
love You. He said to him, Feed My lambs.
21:16 耶稣第二次又对他说，约翰的儿子西门，你爱我么？彼得对祂说，主阿，是的，你知道我爱你。耶稣对他说，你牧养我的羊。
He said to him again a second time, Simon, son of John, do you love Me? He said to Him, Yes, Lord, You know that I love You. He said to him, Shepherd My
sheep.
21:17 耶稣第三次对他说，约翰的儿子西门，你爱我么？彼得因为耶稣第三次对他说，你爱我么？就忧愁，对耶稣说，主阿，你是无所不知的，你知道我
爱你。耶稣对他说，你喂养我的羊。
He said to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love Me? Peter was grieved that He said to him the third time, Do you love Me? And he said to Him, Lord,
You know all things; You know that I love You. Jesus said to him, Feed My sheep.
21:18 我实实在在的告诉你，你年轻的时候，自己束上带子，随意往来；但年老的时候，你要伸出手来，别人要把你束上，带你到不愿意去的地方。
Truly, truly, I say to you, When you were younger, you girded yourself and walked where you wished; but when you grow old, you will stretch out your hands, and
another will gird you and carry you where you do not wish to go.
21:19 耶稣说这话，是指明彼得要怎样死荣耀神。说了这话，就对他说，你跟从我吧。
Now this He said, signifying by what kind of death he would glorify God. And when He had said this, He said to him, Follow Me.
21:20 彼得转过身来，看见耶稣所爱的那门徒跟着，就是在晚饭的时候，靠着耶稣胸膛，说，主阿，出卖你的是谁的那门徒。
Peter, turning around, saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following, who also reclined on His breast at the supper, and said, Lord, who is the one betraying You?
21:21 彼得看见他，就对耶稣说，主阿，这人怎么样？
Peter therefore, seeing him, said to Jesus, Lord, and what about this man?
21:22 耶稣对他说，我若要留他直到我来的时候，与你何干？你跟从我吧。
Jesus said to him, If I want him to remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow Me.
21:23 于是这话传在弟兄中间，说那门徒不死。其实耶稣不是说他不死，乃是说，我若要留他直到我来的时候，与你何干。
This word therefore went out among the brothers, that that disciple would not die, yet Jesus did not say to him that he would not die, but, If I want him to remain
until I come, what is that to you?
21:24 为这些事作见证，并且记载这些事的，就是这门徒；我们也知道他的见证是真实的。
This is the disciple who testifies concerning these things, and the one who has written these things; and we know that his testimony is true.
21:25 耶稣所行的，还有许多别的事，若是一一都写出来，我想所写的书，就是世界也容不下了。
And there are also many other things which Jesus did, which, if they were written one by one, I suppose that not even the world itself could contain the books
written.
1029
44. 使徒行传 Acts
使徒行传 Acts 第 1 章
1:1 提阿非罗阿，我已经作了前书，论到耶稣开头所行所教训的一切事，
The former account I have made, O Theophilus, concerning all the things that Jesus began both to do and to teach,
1:2 直到祂借着圣灵，吩咐所拣选的使徒以后，被接上升的日子为止。
Until the day on which He was taken up, after He had given commandment through the Holy Spirit to the apostles whom He chose;
1:3 祂受害之后，用许多确据，将自己活活的显给使徒看，四十天之久向他们显现，讲说神国的事。
To whom also He presented Himself alive after His suffering by many irrefutable proofs, appearing to them through a period of forty days and speaking the
things concerning the kingdom of God.
1:4 耶稣同他们聚集的时候，嘱咐他们说，不要离开耶路撒冷，却要等候父所应许的，就是你们听我说过的；
And as He met together with them, He charged them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which, He said, You heard from Me;
1:5 因为约翰是在水里施浸，但过不多几日，你们要在圣灵里受浸。
For John baptized with water, but you shall be baptized in the Holy Spirit not many days from now.
1:6 那些聚在一起的人问耶稣说，主阿，你复兴以色列国，就在这时候么？
So the ones who came together asked Him, saying, Lord, are You at this time restoring the kingdom to Israel?
1:7 耶稣对他们说，父凭着自己的权柄所定的时候或时期，不是你们可以知道的。
But He said to them, It is not for you to know times or seasons which the Father has set by His own authority.
1:8 但圣灵降临在你们身上，你们就必得着能力，并要在耶路撒冷、犹太全地、撒玛利亚，直到地极，作我的见证人。
But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you, and you shall be My witnesses both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and unto the
uttermost part of the earth.
1:9 说了这话，他们正看的时候，祂就被取上升，有一朵云彩把祂从他们的眼界中接上去了。
And when He had said these things, while they were looking on, He was lifted up, and a cloud took Him away from their sight.
1:10 当祂往上去，他们定睛望天的时候，看哪，有两个人身穿白衣，站在他们旁边，说，
And while they were looking intently into heaven as He went, behold, two men in white clothing stood beside them,
1:11 诸位，加利利人哪，你们为什么站着望天？这离开你们被接升天的耶稣，你们见祂怎样往天上去，祂还要怎样来。
Who also said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus, who has been taken up from you into heaven, will come in the same way as
you beheld Him going into heaven.
1:12 有一座山名叫橄榄山，离耶路撒冷不远，有安息日可走的路程，当下门徒从那里回耶路撒冷去。
Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey away.
1:13 他们进了城，就上了所住的一间楼房，在那里有彼得、约翰、雅各、安得烈、腓力、多马、巴多罗买、马太、亚勒腓的儿子雅各、热烈派的西门和雅
各的兄弟犹大。
And when they entered, they went up to the upper room where they were residing, Peter and John and James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew
and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus and Simon the Zealot and Judas the brother of James.
1:14 这些人同着几个妇人，和耶稣的母亲马利亚，并耶稣的兄弟，都同心合意，坚定持续的祷告。
These all continued steadfastly with one accord in prayer, together with the women and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with His brothers.
1:15 在那些日子，有许多人聚集，约一百二十名，彼得在弟兄中间站起来，说，
And in those days Peter stood up in the midst of the brothers and said (there was a group of persons gathered together, about a hundred and twenty),
1:16 诸位，弟兄们，圣灵借着大卫的口，在经上预先讲到那领人捉拿耶稣的犹大，这话是必须应验的。
Men, brothers, the Scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke before through the mouth of David concerning Judas, who became a guide to those
who seized Jesus;
1:17 他本来列在我们数中，并且在这职事上得了一分。
For he was numbered among us and was allotted his portion of this ministry.
1:18 这人用不义的工价买了一块田，以后他倒头坠下，肚腹迸裂，肠子都流出来。
(Now this man acquired a piece of land with the wages of unrighteousness; and falling headlong, he burst in the middle, and all his inward parts gushed out.
1:19 住在耶路撒冷的众人都知道这事，所以按着他们的本地话，称那块田为亚革大马，就是血田的意思。
And it became known to all those dwelling in Jerusalem, so that that piece of land was called in their own dialect, Akeldamach, that is, Field of Blood.)
1:20 因此诗篇上写着，“愿他的住处变为荒场，无人在内居住。”又说，“愿别人得他的监督职分。”
For it is written in the book of Psalms, "Let his habitation become desolate, and let no one dwell in it''; and, "His overseership let another take.''
1:21 所以在主耶稣出入于我们中间的时候，
It is necessary therefore that of the men who accompanied us all the time in which the Lord Jesus went in and went out among us,
1:22 从约翰施浸起，直到主离开我们被接上升的日子，始终与我们作伴的那些人中，现在必须有一位与我们同作耶稣复活的见证人。
Beginning from the baptism of John until the day on which He was taken up from us, one of these should become a witness of His resurrection with us.
1:23 于是他们推举两个人，就是那称为巴撒巴，又名犹士都的约瑟，和马提亚，
And they proposed two, Joseph, called Barsabbas, who was surnamed Justus, and Matthias.
1:24 就祷告说，主阿，你知道万人的心，求你从这两个人中，指明你所拣选的是那一个，
And they prayed and said, You Lord, Knower of the hearts of all, show us clearly the one whom You have chosen of these two
1:25 叫他得这职事与使徒职分的地位。这一分犹大已经离弃，往自己的地方去了。
To take the place of this ministry and apostleship, from which Judas turned aside to go to his own place.
1:26 于是众人为他们摇签，摇出马提亚来，他就和十一位使徒同列。
And they cast lots for them, and the lot fell on Matthias; and he was counted with the eleven apostles.
使徒行传 Acts 第 2 章
1030
2:1 五旬节那天到了，门徒都聚集在一处。
And as the day of Pentecost was being fulfilled, they were all together in the same place.
2:2 忽然从天上有响声下来，好像一阵暴风刮过，充满了他们所坐的整个屋子。
And suddenly there was a sound out of heaven, as of a rushing violent wind, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting.
2:3 又有舌头如火焰向他们显现出来，分开落在他们各人身上，
And there appeared to them tongues as of fire, which were distributed; and it sat on each one of them;
2:4 他们就都被圣灵充溢，并且按着那灵所赐的发表，用别种不同的语言说起话来。
And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in different tongues, even as the Spirit gave to them to speak forth.
2:5 那时，有犹太人，就是从天下各国来的虔诚人，住在耶路撒冷。
Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men, from every nation under heaven.
2:6 这声音一响，许多人都来在一起，各人因听见门徒用听众各人的本地话讲论，就感困惑。
And when this sound occurred, the multitude came together and was confounded because each one heard them speaking in his own dialect.
2:7 他们都惊讶希奇，说，看哪，这些说话的不都是加利利人么？
And they were amazed and marveled, saying, Behold, are not all these who are speaking Galileans?
2:8 我们各人怎么听见他们说我们生来所用的本地话？
And how is it that we each hear them in our own dialect in which we were born?
2:9 我们帕提亚人、玛代人、以拦人、和住在米所波大米、犹太、加帕多家、本都、亚西亚、
Parthians and Medes and Elamites and those dwelling in Mesopotamia, both in Judea and Cappadocia, in Pontus and Asia,
2:10 弗吕家、旁非利亚、埃及的人，并靠近古利奈的吕彼亚一带地方的人，以及旅居的罗马人，或是犹太人，或是入犹太教的人，
Both in Phrygia and Pamphylia, in Egypt and the parts of Libya around Cyrene, and the sojourning of Rome, both Jews and proselytes,
2:11 革哩底和亚拉伯人，都听见他们用我们的语言，讲说神的大作为。
Cretans and Arabians, we hear them speaking in our tongues the magnificent works of God?
2:12 众人就都惊讶猜疑，彼此说，这是什么意思？
And they were all amazed and perplexed, saying to one another, What does this mean?
2:13 还有人讥诮说，他们无非是被新酒灌满了。
But others jeered and said, They are full of new wine!
2:14 彼得同十一位使徒站起来，高声对众人说，诸位，犹太人和一切住在耶路撒冷的人哪，这件事你们当知道，也当侧耳听我的话。
But Peter, standing with the eleven, lifted up his voice and spoke forth to them: Men of Judea, and all who are dwelling in Jerusalem, let this be known to you,
and give ear to my words.
2:15 这些人并不是像你们所想的喝醉了，因为时候不过是上午九时；
For these men are not drunk, as you suppose, for it is the third hour of the day;
2:16 这正是借着申言者约珥所说的，
But this is what is spoken through the prophet Joel:
2:17 “神说，在末后的日子，我要将我的灵浇灌在一切属肉体的人身上；你们的儿女要说预言，你们的青年人要见异象，你们的老年人要作异梦。
"And it shall be in the last days, says God, that I will pour out of My Spirit upon all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men
shall see visions, and your old men shall dream things in dreams;
2:18 在那些日子，我要将我的灵浇灌在我的奴仆和婢女身上，他们就要说预言。
And indeed upon My slaves, both men and women, I will pour out of My Spirit in those days, and they shall prophesy.
2:19 我要在天上显出奇事，在地上显出神迹，有血、有火、有烟雾。
And I will show wonders in heaven above and signs on the earth below, blood and fire and vapor of smoke.
2:20 在主大而显赫的日子来到以前，日头要变为黑暗，月亮要变为血。
The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and notable day of the Lord comes.
2:21 那时，凡呼求主名的，就必得救。”
And it shall be that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved.''
2:22 诸位，以色列人哪，你们要听这些话：神借着拿撒勒人耶稣，在你们中间施行异能、奇事、神迹，将祂证明出来，正如你们自己所知道的。
Men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus the Nazarene, a man shown by God to you to be approved by works of power and wonders and signs, which God did
through Him in your midst, even as you yourselves know --
2:23 祂既按着神的定议先见被交给人，你们就借着不法之人的手，把祂钉在十字架上杀了。
This man, delivered up by the determined counsel and foreknowledge of God, you, through the hand of lawless men, nailed to a cross and killed;
2:24 神却将死的痛苦解除，叫祂复活了，因为祂不能被死拘禁。
Whom God has raised up, having loosed the pangs of death, since it was not possible for Him to be held by it.
2:25 大卫指着祂说，“我看见主常在我眼前，因祂在我右边，我便不至摇动。
For David says regarding Him, "I saw the Lord continually before me, because He is on my right hand, that I may not be shaken.
2:26 所以我的心快乐，我的舌欢腾，并且我的肉身要安居在指望中；
Therefore my heart was made glad and my tongue exulted; moreover, also my flesh will rest in hope,
2:27 因你必不将我的魂撇在阴间，也不叫你的圣者见朽坏。
Because You will not abandon my soul to Hades, nor will You permit Your Holy One to see corruption.
2:28 你已将生命的道路指示我，你必用你的面容使我充满快乐。”
You have made known to me the ways of life; You will make me full of gladness with Your presence.''
2:29 诸位，弟兄们，先祖大卫的事，我可以明明的对你们说，他死了，也葬了，并且他的坟墓直到今日还在我们这里。
Men, brothers, I can say to you plainly concerning the patriarch David that he both deceased and was buried, and his tomb is among us until this day.
2:30 大卫既是申言者，又晓得神曾用誓言向他起誓，要从他的后裔中，立一位坐在他的宝座上，
Therefore, being a prophet and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him to seat One from the fruit of his loins upon his throne,
2:31 就预先看明这事，讲论基督的复活说，祂不被撇在阴间，祂的肉身也不见朽坏。
He, seeing this beforehand, spoke concerning the resurrection of the Christ, that neither was He abandoned to Hades, nor did His flesh see corruption.
2:32 这位耶稣，神已经叫祂复活了，我们都是这事的见证人。
1031
This Jesus God has raised up, of which we all are witnesses.
2:33 祂既被高举在神的右边，又从父领受了所应许的圣灵，就把你们所看见所听见的，浇灌下来。
Therefore having been exalted to the right hand of God and having received the promise of the Holy Spirit from the Father, He has poured out this which you both
see and hear.
2:34 大卫并没有升到诸天之上，但他自己说，“主对我主说，你坐在我的右边，
For David did not ascend into the heavens, but he himself says, "The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at My right hand
2:35 等我使你的仇敌作你的脚凳。”
Until I set Your enemies as a footstool for Your feet.''
2:36 所以，以色列全家当确实的知道，你们钉在十字架上的这位耶稣，神已经立祂为主为基督了。
Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made Him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you have crucified.
2:37 众人听了，觉得扎心，就对彼得和其余的使徒说，诸位，弟兄们，我们当怎样行？
And when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart, and they said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, What should we do, brothers?
2:38 彼得对他们说，你们要悔改，各人要靠耶稣基督的名受浸，叫你们的罪得赦，就必领受所赐的圣灵。
And Peter said to them, Repent and each one of you be baptized upon the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the
Holy Spirit.
2:39 因为这应许是给你们和你们的儿女，并一切在远方，凡是主我们的神所召来的人。
For to you is the promise and to your children, and to all who are far off, as many as the Lord our God calls to Himself.
2:40 彼得还用许多别的话郑重的作见证，劝勉他们说，你们要得救，脱离这弯曲的世代。
And with many other words he solemnly testified and exhorted them, saying, Be saved from this crooked generation.
2:41 于是领受他话的人，就受了浸，那一天约添了三千人。
Those then who received his word were baptized, and there were added on that day about three thousand souls.
2:42 他们都坚定持续在使徒的教训和交通里，持续擘饼和祷告。
And they continued steadfastly in the teaching and the fellowship of the apostles, in the breaking of bread and the prayers.
2:43 众人都起了敬畏，又有许多奇事神迹，借着使徒行出来。
And fear was upon every soul; and many wonders and signs took place through the apostles.
2:44 信的人都在一处，凡物公用，
And all those who believed were together and had all things common;
2:45 并且卖了田产家业，照各人所需用的分给各人。
And they sold their properties and possessions and divided them to all, as anyone had need.
2:46 他们天天同心合意，坚定持续的在殿里，并且挨家挨户擘饼，存着欢跃单纯的心用饭，
And day by day, continuing steadfastly with one accord in the temple and breaking bread from house to house, they partook of their food with exultation and
simplicity of heart,
2:47 赞美神，在众民面前有恩典。主将得救的人，天天和他们加在一起。
Praising God and having grace with all the people. And the Lord added together day by day those who were being saved.
使徒行传 Acts 第 3 章
3:1 午后三时祷告的时候，彼得、约翰上殿里去。
Now Peter and John were going up into the temple at the ninth-hour prayer;
3:2 有一个人，从母腹里就是瘸腿的，天天被人抬来，放在那名叫美门的殿门口，要求进殿的人周济。
And a certain man who had been lame from his mother's womb was being carried there, whom they had laid day by day at the door of the temple which is
called Beautiful to ask alms from those entering into the temple.
3:3 他看见彼得、约翰将要进殿，就求他们周济。
And he, seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, began to ask to receive alms.
3:4 彼得同约翰定睛看他，彼得说，你看我们。
And Peter, gazing at him with John, said, Look at us!
3:5 那人就留意看他们，指望从他们得着什么。
And he turned his attention to them, expecting to receive something from them.
3:6 彼得却说，金银我都没有，只把我所有的给你：我在拿撒勒人耶稣基督的名里，叫你起来行走！
But Peter said, Silver and gold I do not possess, but what I have, this I give to you: In the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene rise up and walk.
3:7 于是抓着他的右手，扶他起来；他的脚和踝子骨立刻健壮了，
And he seized him by the right hand and raised him up; and instantly his feet and ankles were made strong.
3:8 就跳起来，站着，又行走，同他们进了殿，走着，跳着，赞美神。
And leaping up and about, he stood and began to walk, and he entered with them into the temple, walking and leaping and praising God.
3:9 众百姓都看见他行走，赞美神；
And all the people saw him walking and praising God,
3:10 认得他是那素常坐在殿的美门口求周济的，就因他所遇着的事，满了希奇惊骇。
And they recognized him, that he was the one who had been sitting for alms at the temple's Beautiful Gate; and they were filled with amazement and
astonishment at what had happened to him.
3:11 那人正拉着彼得、约翰的时候，众百姓一齐跑到他们那里，在那称为所罗门的廊下，甚觉希奇。
And while he was holding on to Peter and John, all the people ran together toward them at the portico called Solomon's, greatly amazed.
3:12 彼得看见，就对百姓说，诸位，以色列人哪，为什么对这事感到希奇？为什么定睛看我们，以为我们是凭着自己的能力或虔诚，使这人行走？
And when Peter saw this, he replied to the people, Men of Israel, why are you marveling at this? Or why are you gazing at us, as though by our own power or
godliness we have made him walk?
1032
3:13 亚伯拉罕、以撒、雅各的神，就是我们列祖的神，已经荣耀了祂的仆人耶稣。这位耶稣，你们曾把祂交付彼拉多，彼拉多定意要释放祂，你们竟在彼
拉多面前弃绝了祂。
The God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified His Servant Jesus, whom you delivered up and denied in the presence of Pilate,
when he had decided to release Him.
3:14 你们弃绝了那圣别公义者，反而要求把一个作凶手的人给你们。
But you denied the holy and righteous One and asked that a man who was a murderer be granted to you;
3:15 你们杀了那生命的创始者，神却叫祂从死人中复活了，我们都是这事的见证人。
And the Author of life you killed, whom God has raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses.
3:16 因信祂的名，祂的名便叫你们所看见所认识的这人健壮了；借着祂而来的信，叫这人在你们众人面前完全好了。
And upon faith in His name, His name has made this man strong, whom you behold and know; and the faith which is through Him has given him this wholeness
of health before you all.
3:17 弟兄们，我晓得你们作这事是出于无知，你们的官长也是如此，
And now, brothers, I know that you acted in ignorance, as also your rulers did;
3:18 但神借着众申言者的口所预先宣告，祂的基督将要受害的事，就这样应验了。
But the things which God announced beforehand through the mouth of all the prophets, that His Christ would suffer, He has thus fulfilled.
3:19 所以你们要悔改，并要回转，使你们的罪得以涂抹，这样，那舒爽的时期，就得以从主面前来到，
Repent therefore and turn, that your sins may be wiped away,
3:20 祂也必差遣所预先选定给你们的基督，就是耶稣。
So that seasons of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord and that He may send the Christ, who has been previously appointed for you, Jesus,
3:21 天必留祂，直到万物复兴的时候，就是神自古以来，借着祂圣申言者的口所说的。
Whom heaven must indeed receive until the times of the restoration of all things, of which God spoke through the mouth of His holy prophets from of old.
3:22 摩西曾说，“主神要从你们弟兄中间，给你们兴起一位申言者像我，凡祂向你们所说的，你们都要听从。
Moses said, "A Prophet will the Lord your God raise up unto you from your brothers, like me; Him shall you hear in whatever things He speaks to you.
3:23 凡不听从那申言者的人，必要从民中灭绝。”
And it shall be that every soul who does not hear that Prophet shall be utterly destroyed from among the people.''
3:24 从撒母耳起，以及相继兴起的众申言者，凡说预言的，也都宣告了这些日子。
And also all the prophets, from Samuel and those in succession after him, as many as spoke, also announced these days.
3:25 你们是申言者的子孙，也是神与你们祖宗所立之约的子孙，神在那约中，曾对亚伯拉罕说，地上万族，都要因你的后裔得福。
You are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant which God covenanted with your fathers, saying to Abraham, "And in your seed shall all the families of the
earth be blessed.''
3:26 神既兴起祂的仆人，就先差祂到你们这里来，祝福你们，叫你们各人回转，离开邪恶。
To you first, God, having raised up His Servant, has sent Him to bless you in turning each of you away from your wicked deeds.
使徒行传 Acts 第 4 章
4:1 使徒对百姓说话的时候，祭司们、守殿官和撒都该人，来到他们那里，
And as they were speaking to the people, the priests and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them,
4:2 因他们教训百姓，凭着耶稣宣传从死人中的复活，就很恼怒，
Being greatly disturbed because they were teaching the people and announcing in Jesus the resurrection from the dead.
4:3 于是下手拿住他们。因为天已经晚了，就把他们收在监里，直到第二天。
And they laid their hands on them and placed them in custody until the next day, for it was already evening.
4:4 但听道的人中，有许多信的，男人的数目约到五千。
But many of those who heard the word believed; and the number of men came to about five thousand.
4:5 到了第二天，百姓的官长、长老和经学家，在耶路撒冷聚集，
And on the next day their rulers and elders and scribes were gathered together in Jerusalem,
4:6 又有大祭司亚那和该亚法、约翰、亚力山大、并所有大祭司的亲族，都在那里。
As well as Annas the high priest and Caiaphas and John and Alexander and as many as were of high-priestly descent.
4:7 他们叫使徒站在当中，查问说，你们用什么能力，或在谁的名里作这事？
And they stood them in the midst and inquired, By what power or in what name did you do this?
4:8 那时，彼得被圣灵充溢，对他们说，
Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, Rulers of the people and elders,
4:9 百姓的官长和长老阿，若是今日，因为在一个病人身上所行的善事，审问我们他是怎么得了拯救的，
If we today are being examined regarding a good deed done to a sick man, by what means this man has been healed,
4:10 你们众人和以色列众百姓就当知道，乃是在拿撒勒人耶稣基督，就是你们所钉十字架，神从死人中所复活者的名里，在这名里，这人才站在你们面前
健康完好。
Let it be known to you all and to all the people of Israel that in the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, whom you crucified and whom God has raised from the
dead, in this name this man stands before you in good health.
4:11 祂是你们匠人所轻弃的石头，已成了房角的头块石头。
This is the stone which was considered as nothing by you, the builders, which has become the head of the corner.
4:12 除祂以外，别无拯救，因为在天下人间，没有赐下别的名，我们可以靠着得救。
And there is salvation in no other, for neither is there another name under heaven given among men in which we must be saved.
4:13 他们见彼得、约翰的胆量，并且看出他们原是没有学问的平民，就都希奇，认出他们是跟过耶稣的。
And as they beheld the boldness of Peter and John and perceived that they were uneducated men and laymen, they marveled and they recognized them, that
they had been with Jesus.
4:14 又看见那治好了的人，和他们一同站着，就无话可驳。
1033
And seeing the man who had been healed standing with them, they had nothing to say against it.
4:15 于是吩咐他们到议会外面去，就彼此商议说，
But they ordered them to go away outside the Sanhedrin and conferred with one another,
4:16 我们当怎样办这两个人？因为借着他们确实有一件明显的神迹行出来了，凡住耶路撒冷的人都知道，我们也不能不承认。
Saying, What shall we do to these men? For that indeed a notable sign has occurred through them is manifest to all who dwell in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny
it.
4:17 惟恐这事越发传布在民间，我们必须恐吓他们，叫他们不要再靠这名对任何人讲论。
But in order that this would not be spread further among the people, let us threaten them that they no longer speak based upon this name to anyone.
4:18 于是叫了他们来，吩咐他们，绝对不要靠耶稣的名讲论、施教。
And when they called them, they charged them not to utter anything at all nor teach based upon the name of Jesus.
4:19 但彼得、约翰回答他们说，听从你们，不听从神，这在神面前对不对，你们去判断吧！
But Peter and John answered and said to them, Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you rather than to God, you judge;
4:20 因为我们所看见所听见的，不能不说。
For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard.
4:21 官长因百姓的缘故，找不出办法刑罚他们，只好再恐吓一番，把他们释放了；这是因众人为所发生的事，都荣耀神。
And when they had further threatened them, they released them, finding no way that they could punish them on account of the people, because they all were
glorifying God for what had happened;
4:22 原来借着神迹医好的那人，有四十多岁了。
For the man on whom this sign of healing had occurred was more than forty years old.
4:23 二人既被释放，就到自己的人那里去，把祭司长和长老所说的话，都报告他们。
And when they had been released, they went to their own people and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said to them.
4:24 他们听见了，就同心合意的高声向神说，主宰阿，你是造天、地、海和其中万物的。
And when they heard this, they lifted up their voice with one accord to God and said, Sovereign Master, You are the One who has made heaven and earth and
the sea and all things in them,
4:25 你曾借着圣灵，托你仆人我们祖宗大卫的口，说，“外邦为什么吼闹，万民为什么谋算虚妄的事？
Who, through the Holy Spirit, through the mouth of our father David Your servant, has said, "Why did the Gentiles rage, and the peoples devise vain things?
4:26 地上的君王一齐起来，臣宰也聚集在一起，要抵挡主并祂的受膏者。”
The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against His Christ.''
4:27 希律和本丢彼拉多，同外邦人和以色列民，果真在这城里聚集，要抵挡你所膏的圣仆耶稣，
For truly in this city there were gathered together against Your holy Servant Jesus, whom You anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the
peoples of Israel,
4:28 成就你手和你定议所预定必有的事。
To do what Your hand and Your counsel predestined to take place.
4:29 主阿，他们恐吓我们，现在求你鉴察，并叫你的奴仆大放胆量，讲说你的话，
And now, Lord, look upon their threatenings and grant Your slaves to speak Your word with all boldness,
4:30 同时伸出你的手施行医治，使神迹奇事，借着你圣仆耶稣的名行出来。
While stretching out Your hand to heal, and that signs and wonders may take place through the name of Your holy Servant Jesus.
4:31 祈求完了，聚会的地方震动，他们就都被圣灵充溢，放胆讲说神的话。
And when they had so besought, the place in which they were gathered was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak the word of
God with boldness.
4:32 那许多信的人，都是一心一魂的，没有人说他的财物有一样是自己的，都是大家公用。
And the heart and soul of the multitude of those who had believed was one; and not even one said that any of his possessions was his own, but all things were
common to them.
4:33 使徒大有能力，见证主耶稣的复活，众人也都蒙大恩。
And with great power the apostles gave testimony of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all.
4:34 他们中间没有一个缺乏的，因为凡有田产房屋的都卖了，把所卖的价银拿来，放在使徒脚前，
For neither was anyone among them in need; for as many as were owners of lands or of houses sold them and brought the proceeds of the things which were
sold
4:35 照各人所需用的，分给各人。
And placed them at the feet of the apostles; and it was distributed to each, as anyone had need.
4:36 有一个利未人约瑟，按籍贯是居比路人，使徒称他为巴拿巴。（巴拿巴翻出来，就是劝慰子。）
And Joseph, who was surnamed Barnabas by the apostles (which is translated, Son of encouragement), a Levite, a Cyprian by birth,
4:37 他有一块田地，也卖了，把钱拿来，放在使徒脚前。
Who possessed a field, sold it and brought the sum of money and placed it at the feet of the apostles.
使徒行传 Acts 第 5 章
5:1 但是有一个人，名叫亚拿尼亚，同他的妻子撒非喇，卖了产业，
But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a piece of property
5:2 把价银私自留下一部分，他的妻子也知道。他把一部分拿来放在使徒脚前。
And put aside for himself some of the proceeds, his wife also being aware of it. And he brought some part of it and laid it at the feet of the apostles.
5:3 彼得说，亚拿尼亚，为什么撒但充满了你的心，叫你欺骗圣灵，把田产的价银私自留下一部分？
But Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to deceive the Holy Spirit and to put aside for yourself some of the proceeds of the land?
5:4 田产还留着，所留下的不是你自己的么？既卖了，价银不也是由你作主么？你为什么心里起这意念？你不是欺骗人，乃是欺骗神了。
1034
While it remained, was it not your own? And when it was sold, was it not under your authority? Why is it that you have contrived this thing in your heart? You have
not lied to men but to God.
5:5 亚拿尼亚听见这话，就仆倒断了气，听见的人都甚惧怕。
And when Ananias heard these words, he fell down and expired; and great fear came upon all those who heard this.
5:6 有些青年人起来，把他包裹好，抬出去埋葬了。
And the young men arose and wrapped him up; and carrying him out, they buried him.
5:7 约隔了三小时，亚拿尼亚的妻子进来，还不知道所发生的事。
And it happened that after an interval of about three hours, his wife, not knowing what had happened, came in.
5:8 彼得对她说，你告诉我，你们卖田产的价银，就是这些么？她说，是的，就是这些。
And Peter answered her, Tell me whether you have sold the land for this much? And she said, Yes, for this much.
5:9 彼得对她说，你们为什么同心试探主的灵？看哪，埋葬你丈夫之人的脚已到了门口，他们也要把你抬出去。
And Peter said to her, Why is it that it was agreed between you two to test the Spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at
the door, and they will carry you out.
5:10 妇人立刻仆倒在彼得脚前，断了气。那些青年人进来，见她已经死了，就抬出去，埋在她丈夫旁边。
And she fell down instantly at his feet and expired. And the young men came in and found her dead; and carrying her out, they buried her with her husband.
5:11 全召会以及所有听见这事的人，都甚惧怕。
And great fear came upon the whole church and upon all those who heard these things.
5:12 主藉使徒的手，在民间行了许多神迹奇事；他们都同心合意的在所罗门廊下，
And through the hands of the apostles many signs and wonders took place among the people; and they were all with one accord in the portico of Solomon.
5:13 其余的人没有一个敢贴近他们，百姓却尊重他们；
And none of the rest dared to join themselves to them, but the people magnified them.
5:14 信的人越发加添归主，连男带女很多。
And believers were all the more being added to the Lord, multitudes of both men and women,
5:15 甚至有人将病人抬到街上，放在小榻或褥子上，指望彼得过来的时候，或者他的影子可以荫庇他们一些人。
So that they even carried the sick out into the streets and placed them on cots and mats, in order that when Peter came, at least his shadow might overshadow
some of them.
5:16 还有许多耶路撒冷周围城邑的人，也带着病人和被污灵缠磨的，聚拢了来，他们全都得了医治。
And the multitude from the cities surrounding Jerusalem also came together, carrying the sick and those troubled by unclean spirits, for such ones were all being
healed.
5:17 大祭司和一切同他在一起的人，就是当地撒都该派的人，都起来，充满忌恨，
And the high priest and all those with him, the local sect of the Sadducees, rose up and were filled with jealousy;
5:18 就下手拿住使徒，将他们收在公共拘留所。
And they laid their hands on the apostles and put them in public custody.
5:19 但主的使者，夜里开了监门，领他们出来，说，
But during the night an angel of the Lord opened the doors of the prison, and leading them out, said,
5:20 你们去站在殿里，把这生命的话，都讲给百姓听。
Go and stand in the temple and speak to the people all the words of this life.
5:21 使徒听了这话，天将亮的时候，就进殿里去施教。大祭司和同他在一起的人来了，叫齐议会的人，就是以色列子孙的众元老，就差人到监牢去，要把
使徒提出来。
And when they heard this, they entered about daybreak into the temple and began to teach. And the high priest and those with him came up and called together
the Sanhedrin, even all the council of elders of the sons of Israel, and sent men to the prison for them to be brought.
5:22 但差役到了，不见他们在监里，就回来禀报说，
But when the officers arrived, they did not find them in the prison; and they returned and reported,
5:23 我们看见监牢关得非常妥当，守卫也站在门外，及至开了门，里面一个人都见不到。
Saying, The prison we found locked with all security, and the guards standing at the doors; but when we opened the doors, we found no one inside.
5:24 守殿官和祭司长听见这话，非常为难，不知道这事将会如何。
Now when they heard these words, both the captain of the temple and the chief priests were utterly perplexed concerning them as to what this would come to.
5:25 有一个人来向他们报告说，看哪，你们收在监里的人，现正站在殿里教训百姓。
And someone came up and reported to them, Behold, the men whom you put in the prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people.
5:26 于是守殿官同差役去带使徒来，并没有用暴力，因为怕百姓用石头打他们。
Then the captain with the officers went away and brought them without violence, for they feared the people, lest they would be stoned.
5:27 带到了，便叫使徒站在议会中。大祭司问他们说，
And having brought them, they stood them in the Sanhedrin. And the high priest questioned them,
5:28 我们曾严严的吩咐你们，不要靠这名施教。看哪，你们倒把你们的教训充满了耶路撒冷，想要叫这人的血归到我们身上。
Saying, We strictly charged you not to teach based upon this name; and behold, you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching and intend to bring this man's
blood upon us.
5:29 彼得和众使徒回答说，顺从神，不顺从人，是应当的。
But Peter and the apostles answered and said, It is necessary to obey God rather than men.
5:30 你们挂在木头上杀害的耶稣，我们祖宗的神已经叫祂复活了。
The God of our fathers has raised Jesus, whom you slew by hanging Him on a tree.
5:31 这一位，神已将祂高举在自己的右边，作元首，作救主，将悔改和赦罪赐给以色列人。
This One God has exalted to His right hand as Leader and Savior, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins.
5:32 我们就是这些事的见证人，神赐给顺从之人的圣灵，也是这些事的见证人。
And we are witnesses of these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey Him.
5:33 议会的人听见，就极其恼怒，想要杀他们。
But when they heard this, they were exasperated and intended to do away with them.
1035
5:34 但有一个法利赛人，名叫迦玛列，是众百姓所敬重的律法教师，在议会中站起来，吩咐把使徒暂时带到外面去，
But a certain Pharisee in the Sanhedrin named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law honored by all the people, stood up and commanded that they put the men outside
for a little while.
5:35 就对众人说，诸位，以色列人哪，对于这些人，你们应当小心怎样办理。
And he said to them, Men of Israel, take heed to yourselves, with regard to these men, in what you are about to do.
5:36 因为前些日子，丢大起来，自夸为大，附和他的人为数约有四百。他被杀后，附从他的全都散了，归于无有。
For before these days Theudas rose up, saying that he was somebody, with whom a number of men, about four hundred, took sides. And he was done away
with, and all who were persuaded by him were dispersed and came to nothing.
5:37 此后，当户口申报的日子，又有加利利人犹大起来，引诱百姓跟从他。他灭亡了，附从他的人也全都四散了。
After him Judas the Galilean rose up in the days of the enrollment and drew away a group of people after him. And that man perished, and all who were
persuaded by him were scattered.
5:38 现在我告诉你们，不要管这些人，任凭他们吧。因为他们所谋所行的，若是出于人，必遭毁坏；
And now I say to you, withdraw from these men and leave them alone; for should this counsel or this work be of men, it will be overthrown;
5:39 若是出于神，你们就不能毁坏他们，恐怕你们倒要显为是攻击神了。
But if it is of God, you will not be able to overthrow them, lest you be found to be even fighters against God.
5:40 议会的人听从了他，便叫使徒来，打了他们，又吩咐他们不可靠耶稣的名讲论，就把他们释放了。
And they were persuaded by him. And having called the apostles to them, they beat them and charged them not to speak based upon the name of Jesus; and
they released them.
5:41 他们欢欢喜喜从议会跟前走开，因被算是配为这名受辱。
So they went from the presence of the Sanhedrin, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to be dishonored on behalf of the Name.
5:42 他们每日在殿里，并且挨家挨户，不住的施教，传耶稣是基督为福音。
And every day, in the temple and from house to house, they did not cease teaching and announcing the gospel of Jesus as the Christ.
使徒行传 Acts 第 6 章
6:1 那些日子，门徒繁增，有说希利尼话的犹太人，埋怨希伯来人，因为在每天的供给上，忽略了他们的寡妇。
And in these days, as the disciples were multiplying in number, a murmuring of the Hellenists against the Hebrews occurred, because their widows were being
overlooked in the daily dispensing.
6:2 于是十二使徒召众门徒来，说，我们撇下神的话去服事饭食，原是不相宜的。
And the twelve called the multitude of the disciples to them and said, It is not fitting for us to forsake the word of God and serve tables.
6:3 所以弟兄们，当从你们中间拣选七个有好见证，满有那灵和智慧的人，我们就派他们管理这事。
But brothers, look for seven well-attested men from among you, full of the Spirit and of wisdom, whom we will appoint over this need.
6:4 但我们要坚定持续的祷告，并尽话语的职事。
But we will continue steadfastly in prayer and in the ministry of the word.
6:5 这话使众人都喜悦，他们就拣选了司提反，乃是满有信心和圣灵的人，又有腓利、伯罗哥罗、尼迦挪、提门、巴米拿，并入犹太教的安提阿人尼哥拉，
And the word pleased all the multitude; and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, and Philip and Prochorus and Nicanor and Timon and
Parmenas and Nicolas, a proselyte of Antioch,
6:6 叫他们站在使徒面前；使徒祷告了，就按手在他们身上。
Whom they set before the apostles; and when they had prayed, they laid their hands on them.
6:7 神的话扩长起来，在耶路撒冷门徒的数目大为繁增，也有大群的祭司顺从了这信仰。
And the word of God grew, and the number of the disciples in Jerusalem multiplied greatly; and a large number of the priests obeyed the faith.
6:8 司提反满有恩典和能力，在民间行了大奇事和神迹。
And Stephen, full of grace and power, did great wonders and signs among the people.
6:9 当时有一些称为利百地拿会堂的人，并古利奈、亚力山大、基利家、和亚西亚等各处会堂的人都起来，和司提反辩论。
But some of those of the synagogue which is called the synagogue of the Libertines and of the Cyrenians and of the Alexandrians and of those from Cilicia and
Asia rose up and disputed with Stephen;
6:10 司提反凭智慧和那灵说话，他们抵挡不住。
Yet they were not able to withstand the wisdom and the Spirit with which he spoke.
6:11 于是他们教唆人，说，我们听见他说谤讟摩西和神的话。
Then they instigated some men to say, We have heard him speaking blasphemous words against Moses and God.
6:12 并且他们耸动了百姓、长老和经学家，他们就忽然来捉住他，把他带到议会去，
And they stirred up the people and the elders and the scribes, and they came upon him and seized him and led him to the Sanhedrin.
6:13 设下假见证人，说，这个人说话，不住的蹧践这圣地和律法。
And they set up false witnesses, saying, This man does not cease speaking words against this holy place and the law,
6:14 我们曾听见他说，这拿撒勒人耶稣要毁坏此地，也要改变摩西所交给我们的规例。
For we have heard him saying that this Jesus the Nazarene will destroy this place and will change the customs which Moses delivered to us.
6:15 在议会里坐着的人，都定睛看他，见他的面貌好像天使的面貌。
And all those sitting in the Sanhedrin looked intently at him and saw his face as though it were the face of an angel.
使徒行传 Acts 第 7 章
7:1 大祭司就说，果真有这些事么？
And the high priest said, Are these things so?
7:2 司提反说，诸位，弟兄父老请听。当日我们的祖宗亚伯拉罕在米所波大米还未住哈兰的时候，荣耀的神向他显现，
1036
And he said, Men, brothers and fathers, listen. The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham while he was in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt in Haran,
7:3 对他说，“你要从你本地和你亲族中出来，往我所要指示你的地去。”
And said to him, "Come out from your land and from your relatives, and come into the land which I will show you.''
7:4 他就从迦勒底人之地出来，住在哈兰。他父亲死了以后，神使他从那里迁到你们现在所住之地。
Then he came forth from the land of the Chaldeans and dwelt in Haran. And from there, after his father died, He removed him into this land, in which you now
dwell.
7:5 在这地，神并没有给他产业，连立足之地也没有；但应许要将这地赐给他和他的后裔为业，那时他还没有孩子。
Yet He did not give him an inheritance in it, not even a place to set his foot on; and He promised to give it to him for a possession and to his seed after him, while
he had no child.
7:6 神这样说：“他的后裔必在别族之地作寄居的，那里的人要奴役他们，苦待他们四百年。”
And God spoke in this way that his seed would be a sojourner in a foreign land, and they would enslave them and mistreat them four hundred years.
7:7 神又说，“他们所服事的那国，我要审判，以后他们要出来，在这地方事奉我。”
"And whatever nation they will serve as slaves I will judge,'' said God, "and after these things they will come forth and serve Me as priests in this place.''
7:8 神又赐他割礼的约，于是亚伯拉罕生了以撒，第八日给他行了割礼；以撒生雅各，雅各生十二位先祖。
And He gave to him a covenant of circumcision; and thus Abraham begot Isaac and circumcised him on the eighth day; and Isaac, Jacob; and Jacob, the twelve
patriarchs.
7:9 先祖嫉妒约瑟，把他卖到埃及去，神却与他同在，
And the patriarchs became jealous of Joseph and sold him into Egypt; yet God was with him
7:10 救他脱离一切的苦难，又在埃及王法老面前，给他恩典和智慧，法老就派他作宰相，管理埃及和法老全家。
And rescued him out of all his afflictions and granted him favor and wisdom before Pharaoh, king of Egypt; and he appointed him governor over Egypt and over
all his house.
7:11 后来埃及和迦南全地遭遇饥荒，大受患难，我们的祖宗就绝了粮。
And a famine came over all Egypt and Canaan as well as great affliction; and our fathers could find no sustenance.
7:12 雅各听见在埃及有粮，就初次打发我们的祖宗去。
But when Jacob heard that there was grain in Egypt, he sent our fathers out the first time.
7:13 第二次约瑟与他的弟兄们相认，他的家族也被法老知道了。
And during the second time Joseph was made known to his brothers, and Joseph's race became manifest to Pharaoh.
7:14 约瑟就打发弟兄，请他父亲雅各和他全体亲族七十五人都来。
And Joseph sent word and called for Jacob his father and all his family, seventy-five souls in all.
7:15 于是雅各下了埃及，后来他和我们的祖宗都死了，
And Jacob went down into Egypt; and he ended his days, he and our fathers.
7:16 又被迁到示剑，安放于亚伯拉罕在示剑用价银从哈抹子孙买来的坟墓里。
And they were carried over to Shechem and placed in the tomb which Abraham had bought for a sum of silver from the sons of Hamor in Shechem.
7:17 及至神向亚伯拉罕所宣告应许的时期临近，以色列民在埃及增长繁多，
But as the time of the promise which God had assured to Abraham drew near, the people grew and were multiplied in Egypt,
7:18 直到有另一个不晓得约瑟的王兴起，治理埃及。
Until another king rose up over Egypt who did not know of Joseph.
7:19 他用诡计待我们的宗族，苦害我们的祖宗，叫他们丢弃婴孩，使婴孩不能存活。
This one dealt craftily with our race and mistreated our fathers, so that they threw out their babies in order that they would not be kept alive.
7:20 那时，摩西生下来，俊美非凡，在他父亲家里抚养了三个月。
At this time Moses was born and was lovely to God. And he was nurtured three months in his father's house.
7:21 他被丢弃的时候，法老的女儿将他拾去，收养为自己的儿子。
And when he was thrown out, Pharaoh's daughter took him up and nurtured him as a son for herself.
7:22 摩西在埃及人的一切智慧上受了训练，说话行事都有能力。
And Moses was educated in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and he was powerful in his words and works.
7:23 他将到四十岁的时候，心中起意，去看望他的弟兄以色列子孙。
But when he was approaching forty years of age, it came into his heart to visit his brothers, the sons of Israel.
7:24 他见有一个人被欺负，就护庇他，为那受欺压的人报仇，打死了那埃及人。
And when he saw one of them being wronged, he defended him, and he avenged him who was being oppressed by striking the Egyptian dead.
7:25 他以为弟兄必明白神是借着他的手向他们施行拯救，他们却不明白。
And he supposed that his brothers understood that God through his hand was giving salvation to them; but they did not understand.
7:26 第二天，有人在争斗，摩西出面想要使他们和睦，说，诸位，你们是弟兄，为什么彼此欺负？
And on the following day he appeared to them as they were fighting and tried to reconcile them in peace, saying, Men, you are brothers. Why are you wronging
one another?
7:27 那欺负邻舍的把他推开，说，“谁立你作我们的首领和审判官？
But the one who was wronging his neighbor pushed him away, saying, "Who appointed you a ruler and a judge over us?
7:28 难道你想要杀我，像昨天杀那埃及人一样么？”
Do you want to do away with me the same way you did away with the Egyptian yesterday?''
7:29 摩西因这话就逃走了，在米甸地寄居，在那里生了两个儿子。
And Moses fled at this word and became a sojourner in the land of Midian, where he begot two sons.
7:30 满了四十年，在西乃山的旷野，有一位天使在荆棘火焰中向摩西显现。
And when forty years had been fulfilled, an Angel appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai in the flame of a thornbush fire.
7:31 摩西见了那异象，便觉希奇；他正上前察看的时候，有主的声音说，
And when Moses saw it, he marveled at the vision; and as he approached to examine it, there came the voice of the Lord:
7:32 “我是你祖宗的神，就是亚伯拉罕、以撒、雅各的神。”摩西战战兢兢，不敢察看。
"I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob.'' And Moses trembled and dared not examine it.
1037
7:33 主对他说，“把你脚上的鞋脱下来，因为你所站的地方乃是圣地。
And the Lord said to him, "Untie the sandals from your feet, for the place on which you stand is holy ground.
7:34 我的百姓在埃及所受的苦害，我实在看见了，他们的叹息，我也听见了，我下来要救他们。现在你来，我要差你往埃及去。”
I have surely seen the ill-treatment of My people who are in Egypt and have heard their groaning, and I have come down to rescue them. And now, come, I will
send you into Egypt.''
7:35 这摩西，就是他们曾弃绝说，谁立你作首领和审判官的，神却借着那在荆棘中向他显现之使者的手，差派他作首领，作救赎者。
This Moses, whom they refused, saying, Who appointed you a ruler and a judge? this one God has sent as both a ruler and a redeemer, along with the hand of
the Angel who appeared to him in the thornbush.
7:36 这人领百姓出来，在埃及地、在红海、在旷野，四十年间行了奇事神迹。
This man led them out, doing wonders and signs in the land of Egypt and in the Red Sea and in the wilderness for forty years.
7:37 那曾对以色列子孙说，“神要从你们弟兄中间，给你们兴起一位申言者像我”的，就是这位摩西。
This is the Moses who said to the sons of Israel, "A Prophet will God raise up unto you from your brothers, like me.''
7:38 这人曾在旷野会中，与那在西乃山上对他说话的使者同在，又与我们的祖宗同在，并且领受活的谕言传给我们。
This is the one who was in the assembly in the wilderness with the Angel who spoke to him in Mount Sinai and with our fathers, and who received living oracles
to give to us.
7:39 我们的祖宗不肯顺从，反倒弃绝他，心里转向埃及，
To him our fathers were not willing to become obedient, but thrust him away and turned in their hearts to Egypt,
7:40 对亚伦说，“你且为我们造些神像，可以在我们前面引路；因为领我们出埃及地的那个摩西，我们不知道他遭遇了什么事。”
Saying to Aaron, "Make gods for us who will go before us; for this Moses, who has led us out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has happened to him.''
7:41 当那些日子，他们造了一个牛犊，又拿祭物献给那偶像，并因自己手中的工作而欢乐。
And they made a calf in those days and brought up a sacrifice to the idol and were glad with the works of their hands.
7:42 神就转开，任凭他们事奉天象，正如众申言者书上所写的：“以色列家阿，你们四十年间在旷野，岂是将牺牲和祭物献给我么？
But God turned and delivered them up to serve the host of heaven, even as it is written in the book of the prophets, "Did you offer slain beasts and sacrifices to
Me for forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel?
7:43 你们抬着摩洛的帐幕，和理番神的星，就是你们所造为要敬拜的像。因此，我要把你们迁徙到巴比伦以外去。”
And you took up the tabernacle of Moloch and the star of your god Rompha, the images which you made to worship. And I will carry you away beyond Babylon.''
7:44 我们的祖宗在旷野有见证的帐幕，是照那对摩西说话者所吩咐，按他所看见的样式作的。
The tabernacle of testimony was with our fathers in the wilderness, even as He who spoke to Moses instructed him to make it, according to the pattern which he
had seen.
7:45 这帐幕，我们的祖宗相继承受，当神在他们面前赶出外邦人的时候，他们同约书亚把帐幕搬进承受为业之地，直到大卫的日子。
This tabernacle our fathers, having in their turn received, also brought in with Joshua when they took possession of the nations, whom God drove out before the
face of our fathers until the days of David,
7:46 大卫在神面前蒙恩，祈求为雅各的神寻得居所，
Who found favor before God and asked to find a habitation for the God of Jacob.
7:47 却由所罗门为神建造殿宇。
But Solomon built Him a house.
7:48 其实至高者并不住人手所造的，就如申言者所说，
Yet the Most High does not dwell in that which is made by hands, even as the prophet says,
7:49 “主说，天是我的座位，地是我的脚凳，你们要为我造怎样的殿宇，那里是我安息的地方？
"Heaven is My throne, and the earth is a footstool for My feet. What kind of house will you build for Me, says the Lord, or what is the place of My rest?
7:50 这一切不都是我手所造的么？”
Has not My hand made all these things?''
7:51 你们这硬着颈项，心与耳未受割礼的人，时常抗拒圣灵，你们的祖宗怎样，你们也怎样。
You stiff-necked and uncircumcised in hearts and ears, you always oppose the Holy Spirit; as your fathers did, you also do.
7:52 那一个申言者不是你们祖宗所逼迫的？他们也把预先宣告那义者要来的人杀了，如今你们又把那义者卖了，杀了。
Which of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? And they killed those who announced beforehand concerning the coming of the righteous One, whose
betrayers and murderers you have now become,
7:53 你们受了那成为天使典章的律法，竟不遵守。
You who received the law as ordinances of angels and did not keep it.
7:54 众人听见这话，心里极其恼怒，就向司提反咬牙切齿。
Now as they heard these things, they were exasperated and gnashed their teeth at him.
7:55 但司提反满有圣灵，定睛望天，看见神的荣耀，又看见耶稣站在神的右边，
But being full of the Holy Spirit, he looked intently into heaven and saw the glory of God and Jesus standing at the right hand of God;
7:56 就说，看哪，我看见诸天开了，人子站在神的右边。
And he said, Behold, I see the heavens opened up and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God.
7:57 众人大声喊叫，捂着耳朵，同心合意的冲向他去，
But they cried out with a loud voice and covered their ears and rushed upon him with one accord.
7:58 把他推到城外，用石头打他。作见证的人把自己的衣服，放在一个名叫扫罗的青年人脚前。
And they threw him outside of the city and stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their garments at the feet of a young man called Saul.
7:59 他们正用石头打的时候，司提反呼求说，主耶稣，求你接收我的灵！
And they stoned Stephen as he called upon the Lord and said, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit!
7:60 又跪下，大声喊着说，主阿，不要将这罪归与他们！说了这话，就睡了。扫罗也赞同他被杀。
And kneeling down, he cried out with a loud voice, Lord, do not hold this sin against them. And when he had said this, he fell asleep.
1038
使徒行传 Acts 第 8 章
8:1 就在那日，在耶路撒冷的召会大遭逼迫，除了使徒以外，门徒都分散在犹太和撒玛利亚各地。
And Saul approved of his killing. And there occurred in that day a great persecution against the church which was in Jerusalem; and all were scattered
throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles.
8:2 有虔诚的人把司提反收埋了，为他捶胸大哭。
And devout men carried Stephen to his burial and made great lamentation over him.
8:3 扫罗却残害召会，逐家进去，连男带女拉去下在监里。
But Saul was devastating the church, entering house after house; and dragging off men and women, he delivered them to prison.
8:4 那些分散的人就往各处去，传神的话为福音。
Those therefore who were scattered went throughout the land announcing the word as the gospel.
8:5 腓利下撒玛利亚城去，向他们传扬基督。
And Philip went down to the city of Samaria and proclaimed the Christ to them.
8:6 群众听见了，又看见腓利所行的神迹，就同心合意的注意他所说的话。
And the crowds gave heed with one accord to the things said by Philip as they heard and saw the signs which he did.
8:7 因为有许多人被污灵附着，那些污灵大声呼叫，就出来了；还有许多瘫痪的和瘸腿的，也都治好了。
For with many of those who had unclean spirits, the spirits came out crying with a loud voice; and many who were paralyzed and lame were healed.
8:8 在那城里，就大有欢乐。
And there was much joy in that city.
8:9 有一个人名叫西门，向来在那城里行邪术，自称大人物，使撒玛利亚的百姓惊奇，
And a certain man named Simon had previously been practicing magic in the city and had been amazing the people of Samaria, saying that he was someone
great.
8:10 众人从小到大都注意他，说，这人就是神的能力，那称为大的。
To him they all gave heed, from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is the power of God which is called Great.
8:11 他们注意他，因为他长久用邪术使他们惊奇。
And they gave heed to him because for a considerable time he had amazed them with his magic.
8:12 及至他们信了腓利所传神的国和耶稣基督之名的福音，连男带女就受了浸。
But when they believed Philip, who announced the gospel of the kingdom of God and of the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women.
8:13 连西门自己也信了，既受了浸，就常与腓利在一处，看见他所行的神迹和大异能，就甚惊奇。
And even Simon himself believed, and once he had been baptized, he continued steadfastly with Philip. And as he beheld the signs and great works of power
taking place, he was amazed.
8:14 使徒在耶路撒冷，听见撒玛利亚人领受了神的话，就打发彼得、约翰往他们那里去，
Now when the apostles in Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent to them Peter and John,
8:15 既到了，就为他们祷告，要叫他们受圣灵；
Who went down and prayed for them so that they might receive the Holy Spirit;
8:16 因为圣灵还没有降在他们任何人身上，他们只是浸入主耶稣的名里。
For He had not yet fallen upon any of them, but they had only been baptized into the name of the Lord Jesus.
8:17 于是使徒按手在他们身上，他们就受了圣灵。
Then they laid their hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit.
8:18 西门看见借着使徒的按手，便有那灵赐下，就拿钱给他们，说，
But when Simon saw that through the laying on of the hands of the apostles the Spirit was given, he offered them money, saying,
8:19 把这权柄也给我，叫我手按着谁，谁就可以受圣灵。
Give me also this authority that on whomever I lay my hands he may receive the Holy Spirit.
8:20 彼得对他说，你的银子和你一同毁坏吧，因你以为神的恩赐，是可以用钱买得的。
But Peter said to him, May your silver go with you into destruction, because you thought that you would acquire the gift of God through money.
8:21 你在这事上无分无关，因为在神面前你的心不正。
You have no part nor lot in this matter, for your heart is not straight before God.
8:22 你当悔改，离弃这恶，祈求主，或者你心里的意念可得赦免；
Repent therefore from this wickedness of yours and beseech the Lord if perhaps the intent of your heart may be forgiven you;
8:23 因为我看出你正在苦胆之中，被不义捆绑。
For I see that you are in the gall of bitterness and in the bond of unrighteousness.
8:24 西门回答说，愿你们为我祈求主，叫你们所说的，没有一样临到我身上。
And Simon answered and said, You beseech the Lord on my behalf, so that none of the things which you have spoken may come upon me.
8:25 使徒既郑重见证并讲论了主的话，就回耶路撒冷去，一路在撒玛利亚好些村庄传扬福音。
They therefore, having solemnly testified and spoken the word of the Lord, returned to Jerusalem; and they announced the gospel to many villages of the
Samaritans.
8:26 有主的一位使者对腓利说，起来，向南走，往那从耶路撒冷下迦萨的路上去，那路是旷野。
But an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying, Rise up and go south on the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza. This is the desert route.
8:27 腓利就起身去了。看哪，有一个埃提阿伯人，是个有大权的太监，在埃提阿伯女王干大基手下总管银库，他上耶路撒冷去敬拜，
And he rose up and went. And behold, an Ethiopian man, a eunuch, a man in power under Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was over all her treasure,
had come to Jerusalem to worship.
8:28 现在回来，在车上坐着，念申言者以赛亚的书。
And he was returning and was sitting in his chariot and reading the prophet Isaiah.
8:29 那灵对腓利说，你上前去，贴近那车走。
And the Spirit said to Philip, Approach and join this chariot.
8:30 腓利就跑上前去，听见他念申言者以赛亚的书，便说，你所念的，你明白么？
1039
And when Philip ran up, he heard him reading Isaiah the prophet and said, Do you really know the things that you are reading?
8:31 他说，没有人指引我，怎能明白？于是恳求腓利上车，与他同坐。
And he said, How could I unless someone guides me? And he entreated Philip to come up and sit with him.
8:32 他所念的那段经乃是：“祂像羊被牵去宰杀，又像羊羔在剪毛的人面前无声，祂也是这样不开口。
Now the passage of Scripture which he was reading was this: "As a sheep He was led to slaughter; and as a lamb before its shearer is dumb, so He does not
open His mouth.
8:33 祂卑微的时候，人不按公义审判祂；谁能述说祂的世代？因为祂的生命从地上被夺去。”
In His humiliation His judgment was taken away. Who shall declare His generation? For His life is taken away from the earth.''
8:34 太监对腓利说，请问，申言者说这话是指着谁？是指着自己，还是指着别人？
And the eunuch answered Philip and said, I beseech you, Concerning whom does the prophet say this? Concerning himself or concerning someone else?
8:35 腓利就开口，从这经上起，向他传耶稣为福音。
And Philip opened his mouth, and beginning from this Scripture he announced Jesus as the gospel to him.
8:36 二人正沿路走的时候，到了有水的地方，太监说，看哪，这里有水，我受浸有什么妨碍？
And as they were going along the road, they came upon some water, and the eunuch said, Look, water. What prevents me from being baptized?
8:37 腓利对他说，你若是全心相信就可以。他回答说，我信耶稣基督是神的儿子。
And Philip said, If you believe from all your heart, you will be saved. And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.
8:38 于是吩咐车停住，腓利和太监二人同下水里去，腓利就给他施浸。
And he ordered the chariot to stand still, and they both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him.
8:39 他们从水里上来的时候，主的灵把腓利提了去，太监也不再看见他，就欢欢喜喜走他的路。
And when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught Philip away; and the eunuch did not see him anymore, for he went on his way rejoicing.
8:40 后来有人在亚锁都遇见腓利，他走遍所有的城邑，传扬福音，直到该撒利亚。
But Philip was found in Azotus; and passing through, he announced the gospel to all the cities until he came to Caesarea.
使徒行传 Acts 第 9 章
9:1 扫罗仍然向主的门徒，口吐威吓凶杀的话。他来到大祭司跟前，
But Saul, still breathing threatening and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest
9:2 向他求文书给大马色的各会堂，若是找着这道路上的人，无论男女，都可以捆绑带到耶路撒冷。
And asked for letters from him to Damascus for the synagogues, so that if he found any who were of the Way, both men and women, he might bring them
bound to Jerusalem.
9:3 扫罗行路，将近大马色，忽然有光从天上四面照着他，
And as he went, he drew near to Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him.
9:4 他就仆倒在地，听见有声音对他说，扫罗，扫罗，你为什么逼迫我？
And he fell on the ground and heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting Me?
9:5 他说，主阿，你是谁？主说，我就是你所逼迫的耶稣。
And he said, Who are You, Lord? And He said, I am Jesus, whom you persecute.
9:6 起来，进城去，你所当作的事，必有人告诉你。
But rise up and enter into the city, and it will be told to you what you must do.
9:7 与他同行的人站着，说不出话来，听见声音，却看不见人。
And the men who journeyed with him stood speechless, hearing the voice but seeing no one.
9:8 扫罗从地上起来，睁开眼睛，竟不能看见什么；有人拉着他的手，领他进了大马色。
And Saul rose from the ground; and though his eyes were open, he could see nothing. And they led him by the hand and brought him into Damascus.
9:9 他三日不能看见，也不吃，也不喝。
And he was three days without seeing, and he neither ate nor drank.
9:10 当时在大马色有一个门徒，名叫亚拿尼亚，主在异象中对他说，亚拿尼亚。他说，主阿，看哪，我在这里。
And there was a certain disciple in Damascus named Ananias; and the Lord said to him in a vision, Ananias. And he said, Behold, I am here, Lord.
9:11 主对他说，起来，往那叫直的街上去，在犹大的家里，寻找一个大数人名叫扫罗。看哪，他正在祷告，
And the Lord said to him, Rise up and go to the lane called Straight, and seek in the house of Judas a man from Tarsus named Saul; for behold, he is praying;
9:12 在异象中看见一个人，名叫亚拿尼亚，进来按手在他身上，叫他能看见。
And he has seen in a vision a man named Ananias coming in and laying his hands on him so that he may receive his sight.
9:13 亚拿尼亚回答说，主阿，我听见许多人说到这人，他在耶路撒冷向你的圣徒行了多少恶事，
But Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard from many concerning this man, how many evil things he has done to Your saints in Jerusalem;
9:14 并且他在这里有从祭司长得来的权柄，要捆绑一切呼求你名的人。
And here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all who call upon Your name.
9:15 主却对亚拿尼亚说，你只管去，因为这人是我所拣选的器皿，要在外邦人和君王并以色列子孙面前，宣扬我的名；
But the Lord said to him, Go, for this man is a chosen vessel to Me, to bear My name before both the Gentiles and kings and the sons of Israel;
9:16 我要指示他，为我的名必须受许多的苦难。
For I will show him how many things he must suffer on behalf of My name.
9:17 亚拿尼亚就去了，进了那家，按手在扫罗身上，说，扫罗弟兄，在你来的路上向你显现的耶稣，就是主，差遣我来，叫你能看见，又被圣灵充溢。
And Ananias went away and entered into the house; and laying his hands on him, he said, Saul, brother, the Lord has sent me -- Jesus, who appeared to you
on the road on which you were coming -- so that you may receive your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit.
9:18 扫罗的眼睛上，好像有鳞立刻掉下来，他就能看见，于是起来受了浸，
And immediately there fell from his eyes something like scales, and he received his sight and rose up and was baptized.
9:19 吃过饭，就健壮了。扫罗和大马色的门徒同在了一些日子；
And once he had taken food, he was strengthened. And he was with the disciples in Damascus for some days.
1040
9:20 随即在各会堂里传扬耶稣，说祂是神的儿子。
And immediately he proclaimed Jesus in the synagogues, that this One is the Son of God.
9:21 凡听见的人都惊奇，说，在耶路撒冷损毁呼求这名者的，不就是这人么？并且他到这里来，不就是为要捆绑他们，带到祭司长面前去么？
And all who heard him were amazed and said, Is this not the one who ravaged those who call upon this name in Jerusalem and came here for this, that he
might bring them bound before the chief priests?
9:22 但扫罗越发有能力，驳倒住大马色的犹太人，证明这位耶稣就是基督。
But Saul was all the more empowered, and he confounded the Jews dwelling in Damascus by proving that this One is the Christ.
9:23 过了好些日子，犹太人商议要杀扫罗；
And as a considerable number of days were being fulfilled, the Jews took counsel together to do away with him;
9:24 但他们的计谋被扫罗知道了。他们又昼夜严密的看守城门，要杀害他。
But their plot was made known to Saul. And they also watched the gates closely, both day and night, so that they might do away with him.
9:25 他的门徒就在夜间，用筐子把他从城墙上缒下去。
But his disciples took him by night and let him down through the wall, lowering him in a basket.
9:26 扫罗到了耶路撒冷，想与门徒结交，众人却都怕他，不信他是门徒。
And when he arrived in Jerusalem, he tried to join himself to the disciples; yet all feared him, not believing that he was a disciple.
9:27 惟有巴拿巴接受他，领他到使徒那里去，把他在路上怎么看见主，主怎么向他说话，他在大马色怎么在耶稣的名里放胆讲说，都向他们述说出来。
But Barnabas took hold of him and led him to the apostles, and he related to them how Saul had seen the Lord on the road, and that He had spoken to him, and
how in Damascus he had spoken boldly in the name of Jesus.
9:28 于是扫罗在耶路撒冷，和门徒出入来往，
And he was with them, going in and going out in Jerusalem, speaking boldly in the name of the Lord.
9:29 在主的名里放胆讲说，并与说希利尼话的犹太人讲论辩驳，他们却想下手杀他。
And he spoke and disputed with the Hellenists, but they attempted to do away with him.
9:30 弟兄们知道了，就送他下该撒利亚，打发他往大数去。
But when the brothers realized it, they brought him down to Caesarea and sent him forth to Tarsus.
9:31 那时全犹太、加利利、撒玛利亚遍处的召会得平安，被建造，在对主的敬畏并圣灵的安慰中行动，人数就繁增了。
So then the church throughout the whole of Judea and Galilee and Samaria had peace, being built up; and going on in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of
the Holy Spirit, it was multiplied.
9:32 彼得周游各处的时候，也到了居住在吕大的圣徒那里。
Now as Peter was passing through all those parts, he came down also to the saints dwelling at Lydda.
9:33 遇见一个人，名叫以尼雅，得了瘫痪，在褥子上躺卧了八年。
And he found there a certain man named Aeneas, who for eight years had been lying on a mat, for he was paralyzed.
9:34 彼得对他说，以尼雅，耶稣基督医好你了。起来，收拾你的褥子。他就立刻起来了。
And Peter said to him, Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you. Rise up and make up your own bed. And immediately he rose up.
9:35 所有住在吕大和沙仑的人都看见了他，就转向了主。
And all those dwelling in Lydda and Sharon saw him; and they turned to the Lord.
9:36 在约帕有一个女徒，名叫大比大，翻成希利尼话就是多加；她广行善事，多施周济。
Now in Joppa there was a certain disciple named Tabitha (which, when translated, is Dorcas); this woman was full of good works and alms which she did.
9:37 当那些日子，她患病死了；有人把她洗净了，停放在楼上。
And in those days she became ill and died; and they bathed her body and laid it in an upper room.
9:38 吕大靠近约帕，门徒听见彼得在那里，就打发两个人到他那里去，恳求他说，快到我们那里去，不要耽延。
Now because Lydda was near Joppa, the disciples heard that Peter was there, and they sent two men to him, entreating him, Do not delay to come through to us.
9:39 彼得就起身和他们同去，到了，便有人领他上楼。众寡妇都站在彼得旁边哭，拿多加与她们同在时所作的里衣外衣给他看。
And Peter rose up and went with them. When he arrived, they led him up into the upper room. And all the widows stood by him, weeping and showing him
tunics and garments, all of which Dorcas had made while she was with them.
9:40 彼得叫众人都出去，就跪下祷告，转身对着尸体说，大比大，起来。她就睁开眼睛，看见了彼得，便坐起来。
And Peter put them all outside; and kneeling down, he prayed; and he turned to the body and said, Tabitha, rise up. And she opened her eyes; and when she
saw Peter, she sat up.
9:41 彼得伸手扶她起来，叫众圣徒和寡妇进去，把多加活活的交给他们。
And giving her his hand, he raised her up. And when he had called the saints and the widows, he presented her alive.
9:42 这事传遍了约帕，就有许多人信靠了主。
And it became known throughout all of Joppa and many believed on the Lord.
9:43 此后彼得在约帕一个硝皮匠西门的家里，住了好些日子。
And he remained a considerable number of days in Joppa with a certain Simon, a tanner.
使徒行传 Acts 第 10 章
10:1 在该撒利亚有一个人，名叫哥尼流，是那叫作义大利营的一个百夫长。
Now there was in Caesarea a certain man named Cornelius, a centurion of what was called the Italian cohort,
10:2 他是个虔诚人，同全家都敬畏神，多多周济百姓，常常祈求神。
Devout and one who feared God with all his household, giving many alms to the people and beseeching God continually.
10:3 有一天，约在午后三时，他在异象中，清楚看见神的一位使者来到他那里，对他说，哥尼流。
He saw clearly in a vision around the ninth hour of the day an angel of God coming in to him and saying to him, Cornelius.
10:4 哥尼流定睛看他，惊怕说，主阿，什么事？天使对他说，你的祷告和你的周济，已经上达神面前，蒙记念了。
And he looked intently at him and became terrified and said, What is it, Lord? And he said to him, Your prayers and your alms have ascended as a memorial
before God.
1041
10:5 现在你要打发人往约帕去，请那称呼彼得的西门来；
And now send men to Joppa and send for a certain Simon, who is surnamed Peter;
10:6 这人在一个硝皮匠西门的家里作客，房子就在海边。
This man is lodging with a certain Simon, a tanner, whose house is by the sea.
10:7 向他说话的天使走了以后，哥尼流叫了两个家仆，和常伺候他的一个虔诚兵来，
And when the angel who was speaking to him went away, he called two of his household servants and a devout soldier of those who waited on him;
10:8 把这一切事都述说给他们听，就打发他们往约帕去。
And relating all things to them, he sent them to Joppa.
10:9 第二天，他们行路将近那城的时候，约在正午，彼得上房顶去祷告。
And on the next day as they were journeying and drawing near to the city, Peter went up on the housetop to pray around the sixth hour.
10:10 他觉得很饿，就想要吃。人正预备饭的时候，彼得魂游象外，
And he became very hungry and wanted to eat. And while they were preparing, a trance came upon him;
10:11 看见天开了，有一器皿降下，好像一块大布，系着四角，缒在地上，
And he beheld heaven opened, and a certain vessel like a great sheet descending, being let down by four corners onto the earth,
10:12 里面有地上各样四足的走兽和爬物，并天空的飞鸟。
In which were all the four-footed animals and reptiles of the earth and birds of heaven.
10:13 又有声音向他说，彼得，起来，宰了吃！
And a voice came to him: Rise up, Peter; slay and eat!
10:14 彼得却说，主阿，绝对不可，因为一切凡俗并不洁之物，我从来没有吃过。
But Peter said, By no means, Lord, for I have never eaten anything common and unclean.
10:15 第二次又有声音向他说，神所洁净的，你不可当作俗物。
And a voice came to him again a second time: The things that God has cleansed, do not make common.
10:16 这样一连有三次，那器皿随即收回天上去了。
And this occurred three times; and immediately the vessel was taken up into heaven.
10:17 彼得自己里面正在极其困惑，不知所看见的异象是什么意思，看哪，哥尼流所差来的人，已经询问到西门的家，站在门外，
Now as Peter was utterly perplexed in himself as to what the vision which he had seen might be, behold, the men who were sent by Cornelius, having made
diligent inquiry for Simon's house, stood at the gate.
10:18 喊着查问：有称呼彼得的西门在这里作客没有？
And they called out and inquired whether Simon, who is surnamed Peter, was lodging there.
10:19 彼得还反覆思想那异象的时候，那灵对他说，看哪，有三个人来找你，
And while Peter was pondering over the vision, the Spirit said to him, Behold, there are three men seeking you.
10:20 起来，下去，和他们同往，不要疑惑，因为是我差他们来的。
But rise up, go down and go with them, doubting nothing, because I have sent them.
10:21 于是彼得下到那些人那里，说，看哪，我就是你们所找的人，你们来这里是为什么缘故？
And Peter went down to the men and said, Behold, I am he whom you seek; what is the cause for which you have come?
10:22 他们说，百夫长哥尼流是个义人，敬畏神，为犹太全国所称赞，他蒙一位圣天使指示，叫他请你到他家里去，并听你的话。
And they said, Cornelius, a centurion, a righteous man and one who fears God and is well attested to by the whole nation of the Jews, was divinely instructed by
a holy angel to send for you to come to his house and hear words from you.
10:23 彼得就请他们进去，留他们住下。次日起身和他们同去，还有约帕的几位弟兄同着他去。
So he called them in and lodged them. And on the next day he rose up and went away with them; and some of the brothers from Joppa accompanied him.
10:24 又次日，他们进入该撒利亚，哥尼流已经召齐了他的亲属密友，等候他们。
And on the next day they entered into Caesarea. And Cornelius was awaiting them, having called together his relatives and intimate friends.
10:25 彼得一进去，哥尼流就迎接他，俯伏在他脚前拜他。
And when Peter entered, Cornelius met him, and falling at his feet, worshipped him.
10:26 彼得却扶起他，说，起来，我也是人。
But Peter raised him up, saying, Rise up; I myself am also a man.
10:27 彼得同他说着话进去，见有好些人在那里聚集，
And as he talked with him, he entered and found many who had come together.
10:28 就对他们说，你们知道犹太人和别族的人亲近来往，本是不合律例的，但神已经指示我，不要说任何人是凡俗或不洁的；
And he said to them, You understand that it is unlawful for a man who is a Jew to join himself to or come near one of another race; yet God has shown me that I
should not call any man common or unclean.
10:29 所以我一被请，就不推辞而来。现在请问，你们请我来是为什么缘故？
Hence, even without objection I came when I had been sent for. I ask therefore, For what reason have you sent for me?
10:30 哥尼流说，前四天这个时候，我在家中守着午后三时的祷告，看哪，有一个人穿着明亮的衣服，站在我面前，说，
And Cornelius said, Four days ago to this hour I was praying at the ninth hour in my house, and behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing,
10:31 哥尼流，你的祷告已蒙垂听，你的周济在神面前已蒙记念了。
And he said, Cornelius, your prayer has been heard and your alms have been remembered before God.
10:32 你当打发人往约帕去，请那称呼彼得的西门来，他在海边一个硝皮匠西门的家里作客。
Send therefore to Joppa and call for Simon, who is surnamed Peter; this man is lodging in the house of Simon, a tanner, by the sea.
10:33 所以我立刻打发人到你那里，你来了很好。现在我们都在神面前，要听主所吩咐你的一切话。
Therefore I sent men at once to you, and you have done nobly in coming. Now therefore we all are present before God to hear all the things that have been
commanded to you by the Lord.
10:34 彼得就开口说，我真看出神是不偏待人的，
And opening his mouth, Peter said, In truth I perceive that God is not a respecter of persons,
10:35 各国中那敬畏祂，行义的人，都为祂所悦纳。
But in every nation he who fears Him and works righteousness is acceptable to Him.
1042
10:36 祂借着耶稣基督（祂是万人的主）传和平为福音，将这道传给以色列子孙。
The word which He sent to the sons of Israel in announcing the gospel of peace through Jesus Christ (this One is Lord of all)
10:37 你们都知道，在约翰宣传受浸以后，这话从加利利起，传遍了整个犹太，
You yourselves know, the word which has been spoken throughout the whole of Judea, beginning from Galilee after the baptism which John proclaimed:
10:38 就是神怎样以圣灵和能力膏拿撒勒人耶稣，祂周游各处行善事，医好凡被魔鬼压制的人，因为神与祂同在。
Jesus, the One from Nazareth, how God anointed Him with the Holy Spirit and with power, who went about doing good and healing all those who were being
oppressed by the devil, for God was with Him.
10:39 我们就是祂在犹太人之地，并耶路撒冷所行一切事的见证人；他们竟把祂挂在木头上杀了。
And we are witnesses of all the things which He did, both in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem; whom also they did away with by hanging Him on a tree.
10:40 第三日神叫祂复活，使祂显现出来，
This One, God raised on the third day; and He has made Him manifest,
10:41 不是给众百姓看，乃是给神预先所选派的见证人看，就是我们这些在祂从死人中复活以后，和祂同吃同喝的人。
Not to all the people, but to witnesses appointed beforehand by God, to us, ones who ate and drank with Him after He rose from the dead.
10:42 祂吩咐我们向百姓传道，并郑重见证祂是神所立定，要审判活人死人的那一位。
And He has charged us to proclaim to the people and solemnly testify that this is the One who was designated by God to be the Judge of the living and the dead.
10:43 众申言者也为祂作见证说，凡信入祂的人，必借着祂的名得蒙赦罪。
To this One all the prophets testify that through His name everyone who believes into Him will receive forgiveness of sins.
10:44 彼得还说这话的时候，圣灵降在一切听道的人身上。
While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell upon all those hearing the word.
10:45 那些奉割礼，和彼得同来的信徒，因圣灵的恩赐也浇灌在外邦人身上，就都惊奇；
And the believers who were of the circumcision, as many as had accompanied Peter, were amazed, because on the Gentiles also the gift of the Holy Spirit had
been poured out;
10:46 因为听见他们说方言，并尊神为大。
For they heard them speaking in tongues and magnifying God. Then Peter answered,
10:47 于是彼得说，这些人既受了圣灵，与我们一样，谁能禁止他们在水里受浸？
Can anyone forbid the water so that these would not be baptized, who have received the Holy Spirit even as we?
10:48 就吩咐他们在耶稣基督的名里受浸。他们又请彼得住了一些日子。
And he charged them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then they asked him to remain for some days.
使徒行传 Acts 第 11 章
11:1 使徒和在犹太的众弟兄，听见外邦人也领受了神的话。
And the apostles and the brothers who were throughout Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God.
11:2 及至彼得上了耶路撒冷，那些奉割礼的人和他争辩，说，
And when Peter went up to Jerusalem, those of the circumcision disputed with him,
11:3 你进到未受割礼的人那里，和他们一同吃饭了。
Saying, You went in to men who are uncircumcised and ate with them.
11:4 彼得就开始按着次序给他们解释，说，
And Peter began, and he explained to them in sequence, saying,
11:5 我在约帕城里祷告的时候，魂游象外，看见异象，有一器皿降下，好像一块大布，系着四角，从天缒下，直来到我跟前。
I was in the city of Joppa praying, and I saw in a trance a vision, a certain vessel like a great sheet descending, being let down by four corners out of heaven; and
it came unto me.
11:6 我定睛往里面察看，见有地上四足的牲畜、野兽、爬物并天空的飞鸟。
Looking intently into it, I examined it and saw the four-footed animals of the earth and the wild beasts and the reptiles and the birds of heaven.
11:7 我且听见有声音向我说，彼得，起来，宰了吃！
And I also heard a voice saying to me, Rise up, Peter; slay and eat!
11:8 我说，主阿，绝对不可，因为凡俗或不洁之物，从来没有入过我的口。
But I said, By no means, Lord, for no common or unclean thing has ever entered into my mouth.
11:9 第二次有声音从天上说，神所洁净的，你不可当作俗物。
And a voice answered a second time out of heaven, The things that God has cleansed, do not make common.
11:10 这样一连有三次，就都拉回天上去了。
And this occurred three times, and everything was drawn up again into heaven.
11:11 看哪，正当那时，有三个人站在我们所在的屋子前，是从该撒利亚差到我这里来的。
And behold, at that moment three men stood at the house in which we were, having been sent from Caesarea to me.
11:12 那灵吩咐我和他们同去，不要疑惑。同着我去的，还有这六位弟兄，我们都进了那人的家。
And the Spirit told me to go with them, doubting nothing. And these six brothers went with me also; and we entered into the man's house.
11:13 那人就告诉我们，他如何看见一位天使，站在他屋里，说，你打发人往约帕去，请那称呼彼得的西门来，
And he reported to us how he saw the angel standing in his house and saying, Send men to Joppa and send for Simon, who is surnamed Peter,
11:14 他有话要对你说，可以叫你和你的全家得救。
Who will speak words to you by which you shall be saved, you and all your house.
11:15 我一开讲，圣灵便降在他们身上，正像当初降在我们身上一样。
And as I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them just as also on us in the beginning.
11:16 我就想起主所说的话，约翰是在水里施浸，但你们要在圣灵里受浸。
And I remembered the word of the Lord, how He said, John baptized with water, but you shall be baptized in the Holy Spirit.
11:17 神既然给他们同样的恩赐，像给我们这些信靠主耶稣基督的人一样，我是谁，那能拦阻神？
1043
If therefore God has given to them the equal gift as also to us who have believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I that I could have forbidden God?
11:18 众人听见这话，就静默无声，只荣耀神说，这样看来，神也把悔改以得生命赐给外邦人了。
And when they heard these things, they became silent and glorified God, saying, Then to the Gentiles also God has given repentance unto life.
11:19 那些因司提反的事遭患难四散的人，直走到腓尼基、居比路和安提阿，他们不向别人讲道，只向犹太人讲。
Those then who were scattered by the tribulation which took place on account of Stephen passed through as far as Phoenicia and Cyprus and Antioch, speaking
the word to no one except Jews only.
11:20 但其中有的是居比路和古利奈人，他们到了安提阿，也向希利尼人讲论，传主耶稣为福音。
But there were some of them, men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who came to Antioch and spoke also to the Greeks, announcing the Lord Jesus as the gospel.
11:21 主的手与他们同在，信而转向主的人为数甚多。
And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number who believed turned to the Lord.
11:22 关于他们的传言，到了在耶路撒冷的召会耳中，他们就差遣巴拿巴出去，走到安提阿为止。
And the account concerning them was heard in the ears of the church which was in Jerusalem, and they sent out Barnabas to pass through as far as Antioch,
11:23 他到了，看见神的恩典，就欢乐，劝勉众人，要立定心志，一直与主同在；
Who, when he arrived and saw the grace of God, rejoiced and encouraged them all to remain with the Lord with purpose of heart;
11:24 这巴拿巴原是个好人，满有圣灵和信心，于是许多人加添归主。
For he was a good man and full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a considerable number was added to the Lord.
11:25 他又往大数去找扫罗，
And he went forth to Tarsus to search for Saul;
11:26 找着了，就带他到安提阿去。他们足有一年的时间，在召会里聚集，教训了许多人。门徒称为基督徒，是从安提阿开始。
And when he found him, he brought him to Antioch. And it happened with them that for a whole year they were gathered in the church and taught a
considerable number and that the disciples were first called Christians in Antioch.
11:27 当那些日子，有几位申言者从耶路撒冷下到安提阿。
And in these days prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch.
11:28 其中有一位，名叫亚迦布，站起来，借着那灵指明普天下将有大饥荒，这事到革老丢年间果然发生了。
And one of them named Agabus rose up and signified through the Spirit that there was about to be a great famine over the whole inhabited earth, which
occurred during the time of Claudius.
11:29 于是他们按照门徒中间，无论是谁得昌盛的情况，各自定意赠送，去供给住在犹太的弟兄们。
And the disciples, according to how one was prospered, determined, each one of them, to send things for dispensing to the brothers dwelling in Judea,
11:30 他们就这样行了，由巴拿巴和扫罗经手，送到众长老那里。
Which also they did, sending it to the elders through the hand of Barnabas and Saul.
使徒行传 Acts 第 12 章
12:1 那时，希律王下手苦害召会中的几个人，
Now about that time Herod the king laid hands on some from the church in order to mistreat them.
12:2 用刀杀了约翰的哥哥雅各。
And he did away with James, the brother of John, with the sword.
12:3 他见犹太人喜欢这事，又去捉拿彼得，那时正是除酵的日子。
And when he saw that it was pleasing to the Jews, he went on to arrest Peter also (now those were the days of Unleavened Bread),
12:4 希律拿了彼得，收在监里，交付四班兵丁看守，打算要在逾越节后，把他提出来，交给百姓。
Whom also he seized and put in prison, delivering him to four quaternions of soldiers to guard him, intending after the Passover to bring him out to the people.
12:5 于是彼得被囚在监里，召会就为他切切的祷告神。
So then Peter was kept in the prison; but prayer was being made fervently by the church to God concerning him.
12:6 希律将要提他出来的时候，那夜彼得被两条铁链捆锁，睡在两个兵丁当中，还有守卫在门外看守监牢。
And when Herod was about to bring him forward, that night Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains; and guards before the door were
keeping the prison.
12:7 看哪，有主的一位使者站在旁边，囚室里有光照耀；天使拍彼得的肋旁，叫醒了他，说，快快起来。那铁链就从他手上脱落下来。
And behold, an angel of the Lord stood by him, and a light shined in the cell; and he struck Peter's side and roused him, saying, Rise up quickly. And his chains
fell off his hands.
12:8 天使对他说，束上带子，穿上鞋。他就那样作。天使又对他说，披上外衣跟着我来。
And the angel said to him, Gird yourself and tie on your sandals. And he did so. And he said to him, Throw your cloak around you and follow me.
12:9 彼得就出来跟着他，不知道那借着天使所作的事是真的，还以为是见了异象。
And he went out and followed him; yet he did not know that what was taking place through the angel was real, but thought that he was seeing a vision.
12:10 过了第一道和第二道监牢，就来到通往城内的铁门，那门自动给他们开了。他们出来，走过一条街，天使随即离开他去了。
And passing the first guard and the second, they came to the iron gate that leads into the city, which opened of itself to them. And going out, they went forward
one lane; and immediately the angel departed from him.
12:11 彼得清醒过来，说，我现在真知道主差遣祂的使者，救我脱离希律的手，和犹太百姓一切所期待的。
And Peter came to himself and said, Now I know truly that the Lord has sent forth His angel and rescued me out of Herod's hand and from all the expectation of
the Jewish people.
12:12 他既明白过来，就往那称呼马可的约翰他母亲马利亚家去，在那里有好些人聚集祷告。
And when he became aware of this, he went to the house of Mary, the mother of John, who was surnamed Mark, where there was a considerable number
assembled together and praying.
12:13 彼得敲了外门，有一个使女，名叫罗大，上前来探听。
And when he knocked at the door of the entry, a maiden named Rhoda came to listen.
12:14 她认出是彼得的声音，就欢喜得顾不得开门，跑进去报告说，彼得站在门外。
1044
And when she recognized Peter's voice, she did not open the gate for joy, but ran in and reported that Peter was standing before the entry.
12:15 他们对她说，你疯了！使女却极力的说是这样。他们说，必是他的天使。
But they said to her, You are crazy! But she insisted that it was so. And they said, It is his angel.
12:16 彼得不住的敲门，他们开了门，看见他，就甚惊奇。
But Peter continued knocking; and when they had opened the gate, they saw him and were beside themselves.
12:17 彼得摆手，叫他们静默下来，就向他们述说主怎样领他出监，又说，你们把这事报告雅各和众弟兄。于是出去往别处去了。
And motioning to them with his hand to be silent, he related to them how the Lord had led him out of the prison, and he said, Report these things to James and
the brothers. And going out, he went to another place.
12:18 到了天亮，兵丁之中起了不小的骚乱，不知道彼得出了什么事。
Now when it became day, there was no small disturbance among the soldiers, they not knowing what had become of Peter.
12:19 希律急切的寻找他，却找不着，就审问守卫，吩咐把他们拉去杀了。后来希律离开犹太，下该撒利亚去，住在那里。
And when Herod searched for him and did not find him, he examined the guards and ordered that they be led off to execution. And he went down from Judea to
Caesarea and spent time there.
12:20 希律恼怒推罗和西顿的人；他们就同心合意的来到他那里，托王的内侍臣伯拉斯都说情，向王求和，因为他们那一带地方，是从王的地土得粮。
Now he was furious with the Tyrians and Sidonians. And they came to him with one accord; and having persuaded Blastus, the king's chamberlain, they asked
for peace, because their country was fed from the king's country.
12:21 希律在所定的日子，穿上朝服，坐在审判台上，对他们讲论一番。
And on an appointed day Herod arrayed himself in royal clothing and sat on the judgment seat; and he delivered a public address to them.
12:22 民众喊着说，这是神的声音，不是人的声音。
And the populace cried out, The voice of a god and not of a man!
12:23 主的使者立刻击打希律，因为他不归荣耀给神；他被虫所咬，气就断了。
And instantly an angel of the Lord struck him because he did not give the glory to God; and he was eaten by worms and expired.
12:24 但神的话却日见扩长，越发繁增。
But the word of God grew and multiplied.
12:25 巴拿巴和扫罗办完了供给的事，就从耶路撒冷回去，带着称呼马可的约翰同去。
And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem, having completed the dispensing; and they took along with them John, who was surnamed Mark.
使徒行传 Acts 第 13 章
13:1 在安提阿当地的召会中，有几位申言者和教师，就是巴拿巴和称呼尼结的西面，古利奈人路求，与分封王希律同养的马念，并扫罗。
Now there were in Antioch, in the local church, prophets and teachers: Barnabas and Simeon, who was called Niger, and Lucius the Cyrenian, and Manaen, the
foster brother of Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.
13:2 他们事奉主，禁食的时候，圣灵说，要为我分别巴拿巴和扫罗，去作我召他们所作的工。
And as they were ministering to the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, Set apart for Me now Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them.
13:3 于是禁食祷告，按手在他们身上，就打发他们去了。
Then, when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them, they sent them away.
13:4 他们既被圣灵差遣，就下到西流基，从那里坐船往居比路去。
They then, having been sent out by the Holy Spirit, went down to Seleucia; and from there they sailed away to Cyprus.
13:5 到了撒拉米，就在犹太人的各会堂里宣传神的话，也有约翰作他们的帮手。
And when they were in Salamis, they announced the word of God in the synagogues of the JEWS. And they also had John as their attendant.
13:6 他们经过全岛，到了帕弗，遇见一个犹太人，是个行法术的假申言者，名叫巴耶稣，
And when they had passed through the whole island as far as Paphos, they found a certain man, a magician and Jewish false prophet, whose name was Bar-
jesus,
13:7 他常和省长士求保罗同在，士求保罗是个通达人，他请了巴拿巴和扫罗来，切求要听神的话。
Who was with the proconsul, Sergius Paulus, an intelligent man; the latter called Barnabas and Saul to him and sought to hear the word of God.
13:8 只是那行法术的以吕马（他的名字翻出来就是行法术的）抵挡使徒，想要叫省长转离这信仰。
But Elymas the magician (for so his name is translated) opposed them, seeking to turn the proconsul away from the faith.
13:9 扫罗，又名保罗，被圣灵充溢，定睛看他，说，
But Saul, who is also Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, looked intently at him
13:10 你这满了各样诡诈和奸恶，魔鬼的儿子，众义的仇敌，你歪曲主的正路，还不止住么？
And said, O you who are full of all deceit and all unscrupulousness, son of the devil, enemy of all righteousness, will you not cease perverting the straight ways of
the Lord?
13:11 看哪，现在主的手临到你，你要瞎眼，暂时不见日光。立刻就有雾气和黑暗落在他身上，他就四下找人牵手领他。
And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon you, and you will be blind, not seeing the sun for a time. And instantly a mist and a darkness fell upon him; and he
went about and sought some to lead him by the hand.
13:12 省长看见所发生的事，因惊讶主的教训，就信了。
Then the proconsul, seeing what had happened, believed, being astonished at the teaching of the Lord.
13:13 保罗和他的同伴从帕弗开船，来到旁非利亚的别加；约翰就离开他们，回耶路撒冷去。
And putting out to sea from Paphos, Paul and his companions came to Perga of Pamphylia; and John departed from them and returned to Jerusalem.
13:14 他们离开别加往前行，来到彼西底的安提阿，在安息日进入会堂坐下。
And they passed through from Perga and arrived at Pisidian Antioch. And they went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and sat down.
13:15 读过了律法和申言者的书，管会堂的打发人到他们跟前，说，二位，弟兄们，若有什么劝勉百姓的话，请说。
And after the reading of the Law and the Prophets, the synagogue rulers sent word to them, saying, Men, brothers, if you have any word of exhortation for the
people, say it.
13:16 保罗就站起来，摆手说，诸位，以色列人和敬畏神的人，请听：
1045
And Paul, rising up and motioning with his hand, said, Men of Israel and those who fear God, listen.
13:17 这以色列民的神，拣选了我们的祖宗，当这民寄居埃及地的时候，抬举他们，以高举的膀臂领他们出来；
The God of this people Israel chose our fathers and exalted the people during their sojourn in the land of Egypt, and with a high arm He led them out of it.
13:18 又在旷野抚养他们，为时约有四十年；
And for a time of about forty years He carried them as a nurse in the wilderness.
13:19 既灭了迦南地的七族，就把那地分给他们为业；
And when He had overthrown seven nations in the land of Canaan, He distributed their land as an inheritance.
13:20 此后给他们设立士师，直到申言者撒母耳的时候，约有四百五十年。
And after these things, for about four hundred and fifty years, He gave them judges until Samuel the prophet.
13:21 后来他们求一个王，神就把便雅悯支派中的一个人，基士的儿子扫罗，赐给他们作王四十年。
And afterward they asked for a king; and God gave them Saul, the son of Kish, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years.
13:22 既废了扫罗，就兴起大卫作他们的王，又为他作见证说，我寻得耶西的儿子大卫，他是合乎我心的人，必实行我一切的旨意。
And when He had deposed him, He raised up David for them as king, to whom also He testified and said, I have found David, the son of Jesse, a man according
to My heart, who will do all My will.
13:23 从这人的后裔中，神已经照着所应许的，给以色列带来一位救主，就是耶稣。
From this man's seed, God, according to promise, brought to Israel a Savior, Jesus,
13:24 在祂来到以前，约翰预先向以色列众民宣传悔改的浸。
After John had proclaimed, prior to His public entrance, a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.
13:25 约翰将行尽他路程的时候，说，你们以为我是谁？我不是基督；只是看哪，有一位要在我以后来，我就是解祂脚上的鞋带也不配。
Now as John was completing his course, he said, What do you suppose that I am? I am not the Christ. But behold, One is coming after me, the sandals of whose
feet I am not worthy to untie.
13:26 诸位，弟兄们，亚伯拉罕种族的子孙，和你们中间敬畏神的人哪，这救恩的话是传给我们的。
Men, brothers, sons of the race of Abraham, and those among you who fear God, to us the word of this salvation has been sent forth.
13:27 耶路撒冷的居民和他们的官长，因为不认识这人，也不明白每安息日所读众申言者的话，就审判了祂，正应验了申言者的话。
For those dwelling in Jerusalem and their rulers, being ignorant of this One and of the words of the prophets which are read every Sabbath, fulfilled them by
judging Him.
13:28 虽然查不出祂有什么该定死罪的，还是求彼拉多杀祂。
And though they did not find one cause of death in Him, they asked of Pilate that He be done away with.
13:29 既成就了经上所记关于祂的一切事，就把祂从木头上取下来，放在坟墓里。
And when they had accomplished all that was written concerning Him, they took Him down from the tree and laid Him in a tomb.
13:30 神却叫祂从死人中复活。
But God raised Him from the dead.
13:31 祂多日向那些从加利利同祂上耶路撒冷的人显现，这些人如今向百姓作了祂的见证人。
And for many days He appeared to those who had come up with Him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are now His witnesses to the people.
13:32 我们也传福音给你们，就是那给祖宗的应许，
And we announce to you the gospel of the promise made to the fathers,
13:33 神已经向我们这作儿女的完全应验，叫耶稣复活了，正如诗篇第二篇上所记：“你是我的儿子，我今日生了你。”
That God has fully fulfilled this promise to us their children in raising up Jesus, as it is also written in the second Psalm, "You are My Son; this day have I begotten
You.''
13:34 论到神叫祂从死人中复活，不再归于朽坏，就这样说：“我必将大卫那圣的，那可靠的，赐给你们。”
And as to His having raised Him up from the dead, no longer to return to corruption, He spoke in this way, "I will give you the holy things of David, the faithful
things.''
13:35 所以又在另一篇上说，“你必不容你的圣者见朽坏。”
Therefore He also says in another place, "You will not allow Your Holy One to see corruption.''
13:36 大卫在神的旨意中，服事了他那一代的人，就睡了，归到他祖宗那里，已见朽坏；
Now David, having served his own generation by the counsel of God, did indeed fall asleep and was buried with his fathers and saw corruption;
13:37 惟独神所复活的，祂并未见朽坏。
But He whom God has raised did not see corruption.
13:38 所以诸位，弟兄们，你们当晓得，赦罪是藉这人传给你们的。
Therefore let it be known to you, men, brothers, that through this One forgiveness of sins is announced to you;
13:39 在一切你们靠摩西的律法不得称义的事上，靠这人，凡信的就都得称义了。
And from all the things from which you were not able to be justified by the law of Moses, in this One everyone who believes is justified.
13:40 所以你们要谨慎，免得申言者书上所说的临到你们：
Therefore beware that what is spoken in the prophets does not come upon you:
13:41 “轻慢的人哪，你们要观看，要希奇，要灭亡；因为在你们的日子，我行一件事，就是有人详细的告诉你们，你们也绝不信。”
"Look, you despisers, and marvel, and vanish away; for I am doing a work in your days, a work which you will by no means believe, though someone tells it to
you in detail.''
13:42 他们出会堂的时候，众人恳求他们到下个安息日，再讲这话给他们听。
And as Paul and Barnabas were going out, the people begged that these words would be spoken to them on the next Sabbath.
13:43 散会以后，犹太人和敬神入犹太教的人，多有跟从保罗、巴拿巴的，二人对他们讲论，劝勉他们要一直留于神的恩中。
And when the synagogue gathering had been dismissed, many of the Jews and the devout proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas, who spoke to them and
urged them to continue in the grace of God.
13:44 到了下个安息日，全城的人几乎都来聚集，要听神的话。
And on the following Sabbath almost all the city gathered together to hear the word of God.
13:45 但犹太人看见群众，就充满嫉妒，硬驳保罗所说的话，并且毁谤。
But when the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy and contradicted the things being spoken by Paul and blasphemed.
1046
13:46 保罗和巴拿巴放胆说，神的话先讲给你们听，原是应当的；只因你们弃绝这话，断定自己不配得永远的生命，看哪，我们就转向外邦人去。
And Paul and Barnabas spoke boldly and said, It was necessary for the word of God to be spoken to you first. Since you thrust it away and do not judge
yourselves worthy of eternal life, behold, we turn to the Gentiles.
13:47 因为主曾这样吩咐我们说，“我已经立你作外邦人的光，叫你施行救恩直到地极。”
For so the Lord has commanded us, "I have set you as a light of the Gentiles, that you would be for salvation unto the uttermost part of the earth.''
13:48 外邦人听见了，就欢乐，并且荣耀主的话，凡指定得永远生命的人都信了。
And the Gentiles, hearing this, rejoiced and glorified the word of the Lord; and as many as were appointed to eternal life believed.
13:49 于是主的话传遍了整个地区。
And the word of the Lord was carried through the whole region.
13:50 但犹太人挑唆敬神的尊贵妇女，和城内首要的人，掀起逼迫，反对保罗、巴拿巴，将他们赶出境外。
But the Jews incited the women of high standing who worshipped God, and the chief men of the city, and raised up a persecution against Paul and Barnabas
and cast them out from their borders.
13:51 二人对着众人跺下脚上的尘土，就往以哥念去了。
But they shook off the dust of their feet against them and came to Iconium.
13:52 门徒就被喜乐和圣灵充满。
And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit.
使徒行传 Acts 第 14 章
14:1 二人在以哥念同进犹太人的会堂，在那里讲论，叫一大群犹太人和希利尼人都信了。
And in Iconium they entered together into the synagogue of the Jews and spoke in such a way that a great multitude of both Jews and Greeks believed.
14:2 但那些不信从的犹太人，耸动并毒化外邦人的心意，使他们反对弟兄们。
But the Jews who were disobedient stirred up and ill-affected the minds of the Gentiles against the brothers.
14:3 二人住了多日，靠着主放胆讲论，主借着他们的手，施行神迹奇事，见证祂恩典的话。
Therefore they spent a considerable amount of time speaking with boldness in the Lord, who testified to the word of His grace by granting signs and wonders to
be done through their hands.
14:4 城里的众人就分裂了，有的附从犹太人，有的附从使徒。
But the multitude of the city was divided, and some were with the Jews and some with the apostles.
14:5 那时，外邦人和犹太人连同他们的官长，都在冲动，想要凌辱使徒，用石头打他们。
And when a hostile attempt was made by both the Gentiles and Jews with their rulers to treat the apostles outrageously and to stone them,
14:6 使徒知道了，就逃往吕高尼的路司得和特庇二城，以及周围的地方去，
They became aware of it and fled to the cities of Lycaonia, Lystra and Derbe, and the surrounding region.
14:7 在那里传福音。
And there they announced the gospel.
14:8 路司得城里，坐着一个两脚无力的人，从母腹里就是瘸腿的，从来没有行走过。
And in Lystra a certain man was sitting, without strength in his feet, lame from his mother's womb, who had never walked.
14:9 他听保罗讲论；保罗定睛看他，见他有信心，可以得救，
This man heard Paul speaking, who, looking intently at him and seeing that he had faith to be healed,
14:10 就大声说，你起来，两脚站直。那人就跳起来，而且行走。
Said with a loud voice, Stand upright on your feet. And he leaped up and began to walk.
14:11 群众看见保罗所作的事，就用吕高尼的话高声说，有神成了人形，降到我们这里来了。
And when the crowds saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voice, saying in Lycaonian, The gods have become like men and have come down to us.
14:12 于是称巴拿巴为丢斯，称保罗为希耳米，因为他是带头说话的。
And they called Barnabas, Zeus, and Paul, Hermes, since he was the one who took the lead in the discourse.
14:13 有城外丢斯庙的祭司，带着牛和花圈，来到门口，想要和群众一同献祭。
And the priest of Zeus, whose temple was before the city, brought bulls and garlands to the gates and wanted to offer a sacrifice with the crowds.
14:14 巴拿巴、保罗二使徒听见，就撕开衣服，冲进群众中间，喊着说，
But when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard this, they tore their garments and rushed out into the crowd, crying out
14:15 诸位，为什么作这事？我们也是人，性情和你们一样，我们传福音给你们，是叫你们离弃这些虚妄，转向那创造天、地、海和其中万物的活神。
And saying, Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men of like feeling as you, and announce the gospel to you that you should turn from these vain
things to the living God, who made heaven and earth and the sea and all things in them;
14:16 祂在已过的世代，容让万国各行其道，
Who in the generations gone by allowed all the nations to go their ways.
14:17 然而为自己未尝不显出证据来，就如常施恩惠，从天降雨，赏赐丰年，叫你们饮食饱足，满心快乐。
And yet He did not leave Himself without witness, in that He did good by giving you rain from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling your hearts with food and
gladness.
14:18 二人说了这些话，才勉强拦住群众不向他们献祭。
And saying these things, they restrained the crowds only with difficulty from offering sacrifices to them.
14:19 但有些犹太人从安提阿和以哥念来，挑唆群众，就用石头打保罗，以为他已经死了，便拖出城外。
But Jews from Antioch and Iconium came there; and having persuaded the crowds, they stoned Paul and dragged him outside the city, supposing that he was
dead.
14:20 门徒正围着他，他就起来，进城里去。第二天，同巴拿巴往特庇去。
But as the disciples surrounded him, he rose up and entered into the city. And on the next day he went out with Barnabas to Derbe.
14:21 他们对那城传了福音，使好些人作了门徒；就回路司得、以哥念、安提阿去，
And when they had announced the gospel to that city and had made a considerable number of disciples, they returned to Lystra and to Iconium and to Antioch,
1047
14:22 坚固门徒的魂，劝勉他们恒守信仰，又说，我们进入神的国，必须经历许多患难。
Establishing the souls of the disciples, exhorting them to continue in the faith and saying that through many tribulations we must enter into the kingdom of God.
14:23 二人在各召会中为他们选立了长老，又禁食祷告，就把他们交托所信入的主。
And when they had appointed elders for them in every church and had prayed with fastings, they committed them to the Lord into whom they had believed.
14:24 二人经过彼西底，来到旁非利亚，
And they passed through Pisidia and came to Pamphylia.
14:25 在别加讲了道；就下亚大利。
And when they had spoken the word in Perga, they came down to Attalia.
14:26 从那里坐船往安提阿去。当初他们被托与神的恩典，去作他们现在所已经完成之工的，就是在这地方。
And from there they sailed away to Antioch, where they had been commended to the grace of God for the work which they fulfilled.
14:27 他们到了，就聚集了召会，述说神同着他们所行的一切事，并神怎样为外邦人开了信的门。
And when they arrived and gathered the church together, they declared the things that God had done with them and that He had opened a door of faith to the
Gentiles.
14:28 二人就同门徒住了不少时候。
And they spent no little time there with the disciples.
使徒行传 Acts 第 15 章
15:1 有几个人从犹太下来，教训弟兄们说，你们若不按摩西的规例受割礼，就不能得救。
And certain men came down from Judea and began to teach the brothers, Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved.
15:2 保罗、巴拿巴与他们起了不小的争执和辩论，众人就指派保罗、巴拿巴、和他们其中的几个人，为所辩论的，上耶路撒冷去见使徒和长老。
And when no little dissension and discussion with them came about through Paul and Barnabas, the brothers directed Paul and Barnabas and certain others
among them to go up to the apostles and elders in Jerusalem concerning this question.
15:3 于是召会送他们起行，他们经过腓尼基、撒玛利亚，详述外邦人转向神的事，叫众弟兄都甚喜乐。
They therefore, having been sent forward by the church, passed through both Phoenicia and Samaria, telling in detail about the turning of the Gentiles; and they
brought great joy to all the brothers.
15:4 到了耶路撒冷，召会和使徒并长老都接待他们，他们就述说神同他们所行的一切事。
And when they arrived in Jerusalem, they were received by the church and the apostles and the elders, and they declared the things that God had done with
them.
15:5 惟有几个信徒原是法利赛派的人，起来说，必须给外邦人行割礼，嘱咐他们遵守摩西的律法。
But certain men from the sect of the Pharisees who had believed rose up from among them, saying, It is necessary to circumcise them and to charge them to
keep the law of Moses.
15:6 使徒和长老聚集商议这事。
And the apostles and the elders were gathered together to see about this matter.
15:7 辩论已经多了，彼得就起来，对他们说，诸位，弟兄们，你们知道神早已在你们中间拣选了我，叫外邦人从我口中得听福音的话，而且信了。
And when much discussion had taken place, Peter rose up and said to them, Men, brothers, you know that from the early days God chose from among you that
through my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel and believe.
15:8 知道人心的神，也为他们作了见证，赐圣灵给他们，正如给我们一样；
And God, the Knower of hearts, bore witness to them, giving them the Holy Spirit even as also to us;
15:9 又借着信洁净了他们的心，并不分他们我们。
And He made no distinction between us and them, cleansing their hearts by faith.
15:10 既然如此，现在你们为什么试探神，要把我们祖宗和我们所不能负的轭，放在门徒的颈项上？
Therefore why are you now testing God by placing a yoke upon the neck of the disciples which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear?
15:11 我们信，我们得救乃是借着主耶稣的恩，和他们一样。
But we believe that through the grace of the Lord Jesus we are saved in the same way also as they are.
15:12 大家都静默下来，听巴拿巴和保罗述说神借着他们在外邦人中所行的一切神迹奇事。
And all the multitude became silent, and they listened to Barnabas and Paul relating all the signs and wonders God had done among the Gentiles through them.
15:13 他们住了声，雅各就说，诸位，弟兄们，请听我说。
And when they finished speaking, James answered, saying, Men, brothers, listen to me.
15:14 方才西门述说神当初怎样眷顾外邦人，从他们中间选取百姓归于自己的名。
Simeon has related how God first visited the Gentiles to take out from them a people for His name.
15:15 众申言者的话也与此相合，
And with this the words of the prophets agree, even as it is written,
15:16 正如经上所写的，“此后我要回来，重新建造大卫倒塌的帐幕，我要重建它的颓墟，把它再立起来，
"After these things I will return, and I will rebuild the tabernacle of David which has fallen; and I will rebuild its ruins and erect it again,
15:17 叫余剩的人，就是一切称为我名下的外邦人，都寻求主，
So that the remainder of men may seek out the Lord, even all the Gentiles upon whom My name has been called,
15:18 这话是从时间起首显明这事的主说的。”
Says the Lord, who is making these things known from of old.''
15:19 所以我判断，不可难为那转向神的外邦人。
Therefore I judge that we do not harass those from the Gentiles who are turning to God,
15:20 只要写信，叫他们禁戒偶像的污秽和淫乱，并勒死的牲畜和血。
But that we write to them to abstain from the contaminations of idols and fornication and what is strangled and blood.
15:21 因为自古以来，摩西的书在各城有人传讲，每逢安息日，在会堂里诵读。
For Moses from ancient generations has in every city those who proclaim him in the synagogues, he being read every Sabbath.
1048
15:22 那时，使徒和长老同全召会，都认为该从他们中间拣选人，差他们和保罗、巴拿巴同往安提阿去，所拣选的就是称呼巴撒巴的犹大和西拉，这两个
人在弟兄中是领头的。
It then seemed good to the apostles and the elders with the whole church to choose men from among them to send to Antioch together with Paul and Barnabas:
Judas, who is called Barsabbas, and Silas, leading men among the brothers,
15:23 于是写信，经他们的手带去，信上说，使徒和长老弟兄们，向安提阿、叙利亚、和基利家遍处的外邦弟兄们问安。
Writing to them and sending by their hand the following: The apostles and the elder brothers, to the brothers throughout Antioch and Syria and Cilicia who are of
the Gentiles, rejoice.
15:24 我们听说有几个人，从我们这里出去，用言语搅扰你们，惑乱你们的心；其实我们并没有嘱咐他们。
Since we have heard that certain ones who went out from among us have troubled you with their words, unsettling your souls, to whom we gave no instruction,
15:25 所以我们同心合意，认为该拣选几个人，差他们同我们亲爱的巴拿巴和保罗，往你们那里去。
It seemed good to us, having become of one accord, to choose men to send to you together with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,
15:26 这二人是为我们主耶稣基督的名，不顾性命的。
Men who have risked their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
15:27 我们就差了犹大和西拉，他们也要亲口报告同样的事。
Therefore we have sent Judas and Silas, who themselves will report the same things by word of mouth.
15:28 因为圣灵和我们，认为不该将更多的重担放在你们身上，惟有几件事是不可少的，
For it seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to lay upon you no greater burden than these necessary things:
15:29 就是禁戒祭偶像之物和血，并勒死的牲畜和淫乱，这几件你们自己若能禁戒不犯，那就好了。愿你们康壮。
To abstain from things that have been sacrificed to idols and blood and things strangled and fornication, from which if you carefully keep yourselves, you will do
well. May you be strong.
15:30 他们既受差遣，就下安提阿去，聚集众人，交付书信。
So when they had been sent away, they went down to Antioch; and when they had gathered the multitude together, they handed them the letter.
15:31 众人念了，因得鼓励，就喜乐了。
And when they read it, they rejoiced at the encouragement.
15:32 犹大和西拉也是申言者，就用许多话鼓励并坚固弟兄们。
And Judas and Silas, also being prophets themselves, exhorted the brothers through much speaking and confirmed them.
15:33 过了一些时候，弟兄们打发他们平平安安的回到差遣他们的人那里去。
And when they had spent some time there, they were sent away with peace from the brothers to those who had sent them.
15:34 惟有西拉认为该住在那里。
But it seemed good to Silas to remain there.
15:35 但保罗和巴拿巴仍住在安提阿，和许多别的人一同施教，传主的话为福音。
And Paul and Barnabas stayed in Antioch, teaching and announcing the word of the Lord as the gospel with many others also.
15:36 过了些日子，保罗对巴拿巴说，我们要回到从前宣传主话的各城，看望弟兄们的景况如何。
Now after some days Paul said to Barnabas, Let us return now and visit the brothers in every city in which we announced the word of the Lord, and see how they
are doing.
15:37 巴拿巴定意也带着称呼马可的约翰同去，
And Barnabas intended to take John, who is called Mark, along with them also;
15:38 但保罗以为不带他同去是适宜的，因为马可从前曾在旁非利亚离开他们，不和他们同去作工。
But Paul did not consider it suitable to take with them this one who withdrew from them in Pamphylia and did not go with them to the work.
15:39 于是二人起了争执，甚至彼此分开；巴拿巴带着马可，坐船往居比路去；
And there was a sharp contention, so that they separated from each other; and Barnabas, taking Mark along, sailed away to Cyprus.
15:40 保罗却拣选了西拉，也出去，蒙弟兄们把他交与主的恩典。
But Paul chose Silas and went out, having been commended to the grace of the Lord by the brothers.
15:41 他就走遍叙利亚和基利家，坚固众召会。
And he passed through Syria and Cilicia, confirming the churches.
使徒行传 Acts 第 16 章
16:1 保罗来到特庇，又到路司得。看哪，在那里有一个门徒，名叫提摩太，是信主之犹太妇人的儿子，父亲却是希利尼人。
And he came also to Derbe and to Lystra. And behold, a certain disciple named Timothy was there, the son of a Jewish woman who was a believer, but of a
Greek father;
16:2 路司得和以哥念的弟兄们都称赞他。
He was well attested to by the brothers in Lystra and Iconium.
16:3 保罗有意要他一同出去，只因那些地方的犹太人，就带他去，给他行了割礼，因为他们都知道他父亲是希利尼人。
Paul wanted this one to go forth with him; and he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews who were in those places, for they all knew that his father
was a Greek.
16:4 他们经过各城，把耶路撒冷的使徒和长老所定的规条，交给门徒遵守。
And as they went through the cities, they delivered to them the decrees to keep which had been decided upon by the apostles and elders in Jerusalem.
16:5 于是众召会在信仰上得坚固，人数天天加增。
And so the churches were strengthened in the faith and increased in number daily.
16:6 圣灵既然禁止他们在亚西亚讲道，他们就经过弗吕家和加拉太地区。
And they passed through the region of Phrygia and Galatia, having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia.
16:7 到了每西亚的边界，他们试着要往庇推尼去，耶稣的灵却不许，
And when they had come to Mysia, they tried to go into Bithynia, yet the Spirit of Jesus did not allow them.
16:8 他们就越过每西亚，下到特罗亚去。
1049
And bypassing Mysia, they came down to Troas.
16:9 在夜间有异象现与保罗：有一个马其顿人站着求他说，请你过到马其顿来帮助我们。
And a vision appeared to Paul during the night: A certain man, a Macedonian, was standing and entreating him and saying, Come over into Macedonia and
help us.
16:10 保罗既看见这异象，我们便推断是神召我们去传福音给那里的人，就立刻想要往马其顿去。
And when he had seen the vision, we immediately endeavored to go forth into Macedonia, concluding that God had called us to announce the gospel to them.
16:11 于是从特罗亚开船，一直行到撒摩特喇，第二天到了尼亚波利。
And putting out to sea from Troas, we ran a straight course to Samothrace, and on the following day to Neapolis,
16:12 从那里来到腓立比，就是马其顿区的头一个城，也是罗马的驻防城。我们在这城里住了几天。
And from there to Philippi, which is the leading city of that part of Macedonia, a Roman colony; and we spent some days in this city.
16:13 当安息日，我们走出城门，到了河边，以为那里是个祷告的地方，我们就坐下对那聚集的妇女讲论。
And on the Sabbath day we went outside the gate by the river, where we supposed there would be a place of prayer; and we sat down and spoke to the women
who had come together.
16:14 有一个卖紫色布疋的妇人，名叫吕底亚，是推雅推喇城的人，素来敬拜神；她一直听着，主就开启她的心，叫她留意保罗所讲的。
And a certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple-dyed goods from the city of Thyatira who worshipped God, was listening, whose heart the Lord opened to
give heed to the things being spoken by Paul.
16:15 她和她一家既受了浸，便求我们说，你们若断定我对主是忠信的，就请到我家里来住；于是强留我们。
And when she was baptized, as well as her household, she entreated us, saying, If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my house and abide.
And she constrained us.
16:16 后来，我们往那祷告的地方去，有一个使女迎面而来，她有巫觋的灵附着，行占卜，叫她的主人们大得财利。
And as we were going to the place of prayer, a certain slave girl having a spirit of Python met us, who brought her masters much profit by divining.
16:17 她跟随保罗和我们，喊着说，这些人是至高神的奴仆，向你们宣传救人的道路。
This woman followed after Paul and us and cried out, saying, These men are slaves of the Most High God, who announce to you a way of salvation.
16:18 她一连多日都这样作，保罗就十分厌烦，转身对那巫觋的灵说，我在耶稣基督的名里，吩咐你从她身上出来。那巫觋的灵当时就出来了。
And she did this for many days. But Paul was greatly disturbed; and turning, he said to the spirit, I charge you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her. And
it came out that very hour.
16:19 使女的主人们见自己得利的指望没有了，便揪住保罗和西拉，拉到市场上首领面前；
But when her masters saw that their hope of profit had gone out, they laid hold of Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace before the rulers.
16:20 又把他们带到官长那里，说，这些人原是犹太人，竟骚扰我们的城，
And when they had brought them to the magistrates, they said, These men, being Jews, are throwing our city into confusion,
16:21 宣传我们罗马人所不可受，也不可行的规矩。
And they are announcing customs which are not lawful for us, being Romans, to accept or do.
16:22 群众就一同起来攻击他们，官长剥了他们的衣服，吩咐人用棍子打。
And the crowd rose up together against them, and the magistrates tore off their garments and ordered some to beat them with rods.
16:23 打了许多棍，便将他们下在监里，嘱咐禁卒看守妥当。
And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they threw them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them securely,
16:24 禁卒领了这样的命令，就把他们下在内监，两脚上妥了木狗。
Who, having received such a charge, threw them into the inner prison and secured their feet in the stocks.
16:25 约在半夜，保罗和西拉祷告唱诗赞美神，众囚犯也侧耳听他们。
And about midnight Paul and Silas, while praying, sang hymns of praise to God; and the prisoners were listening to them.
16:26 忽然地大震动，甚至监牢的地基都摇动了，监门立刻全开，众囚犯的锁炼也都松开了。
And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison house were shaken. And instantly all the doors were opened and everyone's
bonds were unfastened.
16:27 禁卒醒来，看见监门开了，以为囚犯已经逃走，就拔刀想要自杀。
And the jailer, waking up out of his sleep and seeing the doors of the prison opened, drew his sword and was about to do away with himself, supposing that the
prisoners had escaped.
16:28 保罗大声呼叫说，不要伤害自己，我们都在这里。
But Paul called out with a loud voice, saying, Do no harm to yourself, for we are all here.
16:29 禁卒叫人拿灯来，就冲进去，战战兢兢的俯伏在保罗、西拉面前；
And the jailer asked for lights and rushed in; and trembling, he fell down before Paul and Silas.
16:30 又领他们出来，说，先生们，我当怎样行才可以得救？
And leading them outside, he said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved?
16:31 他们说，当信靠主耶稣，你和你一家都必得救。
And they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus, and you shall be saved, you and your household.
16:32 他们就把主的话，讲给他同他全家的人听。
And they spoke the word of God to him together with all those in his house.
16:33 当夜，就在那时，禁卒把他们带去，洗他们的伤，他和属乎他的人，立即都受了浸。
And he took them with him in that very hour of the night and washed their wounds. And he was baptized immediately, he and all his household.
16:34 于是禁卒领他们上去，到他的家里，给他们摆上饭，他和全家因为信了神，就都欢腾。
And he brought them up into his house and set a table before them; and he exulted because he had believed in God with all his household.
16:35 到了天亮，官长打发差役来，说，释放那两个人吧。
Now when day came, the magistrates sent the lictors, saying, Release those men.
16:36 禁卒就把这话告诉保罗说，官长打发人来要释放你们。这样，你们现在就出监，平平安安的走吧。
And the jailer reported these words to Paul: The magistrates have sent that you may be released. Now therefore come out and go in peace.
16:37 保罗却对他们说，我们是罗马人，并没有定罪，他们就公开的打了我们，又把我们下在监里，现在要私下撵我们出去么？这是不行的，叫他们自己
来领我们出去吧。
1050
But Paul said to them, They have beaten us publicly, uncondemned, men who are Romans, and have thrown us into prison; and now secretly they are thrusting
us out? No indeed! But let them come themselves and bring us out.
16:38 差役把这话禀报官长。官长听见他们是罗马人，就害怕了。
And the lictors reported these words to the magistrates. And they became frightened when they heard that they were Romans.
16:39 于是来劝他们，领他们出来，请他们离开那城。
And they came and entreated them. And when they had brought them out, they asked them to depart from the city.
16:40 二人出了监，就到吕底亚家里去，见了弟兄们，劝勉他们一番，就走了。
And they went out from the prison and entered the house of Lydia; and when they saw the brothers, they exhorted them and went forth.
使徒行传 Acts 第 17 章
17:1 保罗和西拉路过暗妃波里、亚波罗尼亚，来到帖撒罗尼迦，在那里有犹太人的会堂。
And they traveled through Amphipolis and Apollonia and came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the JEWS.
17:2 保罗照他素常的规矩进到他们那里，一连三个安息日，本着圣经与他们辩论，
And according to his custom Paul went in to them, and on three Sabbaths he reasoned with them from the Scriptures,
17:3 讲解陈明基督必须受害，并从死人中复活，又说，我所传与你们的这位耶稣，就是基督。
Opening and setting before them that the Christ had to suffer and rise from the dead, and saying, This is the Christ, the Jesus whom I announce to you.
17:4 他们中间有些人信服了，就附从保罗和西拉，并有许多敬神的希利尼人，首要的妇女也不少。
And some of them were persuaded and were joined to Paul and Silas, as well as a great multitude of the devout Greeks, and of the chief women not a few.
17:5 但犹太人嫉妒起来，招聚了一些市井匪类，结伙成群，骚动那城，又闯进耶孙的家，想要将保罗、西拉带到民众那里；
But the Jews, becoming jealous and taking along some evil men from among the loafers in the marketplace, gathered a crowd and set the city in an uproar; and
coming upon the house of Jason, they sought to bring them to the populace.
17:6 只是找不着他们，就把耶孙和几位弟兄，拉到地方官那里，喊叫着说，这些扰乱天下的，也到这里来了，
But when they did not find them, they dragged Jason and some brothers before the city officials, shouting, These men who have upset the world have come here
also,
17:7 耶孙竟然接待他们。这些人行事都违背该撒的诏谕，说另有一个王耶稣。
Whom Jason has welcomed; and these all act contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus.
17:8 群众和地方官听见他们这话，就惊慌了。
And they stirred up the crowd and the city officials, who listened to these things.
17:9 于是向耶孙和其余的人取了保状，就释放了他们。
And when they had taken bail from Jason and the rest, they released them.
17:10 弟兄们随即在夜间打发保罗和西拉往庇哩亚去，二人到了，就进入犹太人的会堂。
And the brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away during the night to Berea, who, when they arrived, went off into the synagogue of the JEWS.
17:11 这里的人比帖撒罗尼迦的人开明，他们热切的领受这道，天天考查圣经，要晓得这些事是否这样。
Now these people were more noble than those in Thessalonica, for they received the word with all eagerness, examining the Scriptures daily to see whether
these things were so.
17:12 所以他们中间多有信的，又有尊贵的希利尼妇女，男人也不少。
Therefore many of them believed, and there were not a few Greek women of high standing and men.
17:13 但帖撒罗尼迦的犹太人，知道保罗又在庇哩亚宣传神的话，也就往那里去，耸动扰乱群众。
But when the Jews from Thessalonica found out that the word of God had been announced by Paul in Berea also, they came there as well, agitating and stirring
up the crowds.
17:14 当时弟兄们便立刻打发保罗往海边去，西拉和提摩太仍留在庇哩亚。
And immediately the brothers then sent Paul off, to go as far as the sea; and Silas and Timothy remained there.
17:15 护送保罗的人带他到了雅典；既领了保罗给西拉和提摩太的命令，叫他们赶紧到他这里来，就回去了。
And those who conducted Paul brought him as far as Athens; and receiving a command for Silas and Timothy to come to him as quickly as possible, they went
off.
17:16 保罗在雅典等候他们的时候，看见满城都是偶像，他里面的灵就受到激愤。
And while Paul was waiting for them in Athens, his spirit was provoked within him as he beheld that the city was full of idols.
17:17 于是在会堂里，与犹太人和敬神的人辩论，也与每日在市场上所遇见的人辩论。
He reasoned therefore in the synagogue with the Jews and the devout, and in the marketplace every day with those who happened to be there.
17:18 还有一些以彼古罗和斯多亚的哲学家，与他争论，有的说，这胡言乱语的想要说什么？有的说，他似乎是传说异邦鬼神的。这话是因保罗传扬耶稣
与复活为福音。
And some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers also confronted him. And some said, What would this babbler wish to say? And others, He seems to be an
announcer of foreign deities -- because he was announcing Jesus and the resurrection as the gospel.
17:19 他们就拉住保罗，把他带到亚略巴古，说，你所讲的这新教训是什么，我们可以知道么？
And they took hold of him and led him to the Areopagus, saying, May we know what this new teaching is which is being spoken by you?
17:20 因为你有些奇怪的事，传到我们耳中，我们愿意知道这些事是什么意思。
For you are bringing strange things to our ears. We intend to know therefore what these things mean.
17:21 （所有的雅典人和住在那里的客旅，都没有闲暇顾别的事，只将较新的事说说听听。）
(Now all the Athenians and the foreigners sojourning there spent their time on nothing other than telling or hearing something new.)
17:22 保罗站在亚略巴古当中，说，诸位，雅典人哪，我看你们凡事都很敬畏鬼神。
And Paul stood in the midst of the Areopagus and said, Men of Athens, I observe that in every way you very much revere your deities.
17:23 我经过各处的时候，仔细观看你们所敬拜的，遇见一座坛，上面写着：给未识之神。你们所不认识而敬拜的，我现在传给你们。
For while I was passing through and carefully observing the objects of your worship, I even found an altar on which was inscribed, To An UNKNOWN God. What
therefore you worship without knowing, this I announce to you.
1051
17:24 创造宇宙和其中万物的神，既是天地的主，就不住人手所造的殿，
The God who made the world and all things in it, this One, being Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands;
17:25 也不用人手服事，好像缺少什么，自己倒将生命、气息、万物赐给万人。
Neither is He served by human hands as though He needed anything in addition, since He Himself gives to all life and breath and all things.
17:26 祂从一本造出万族的人，住在全地面上，并且预先定准他们的时期，和居住的疆界，
And He made from one every nation of men to dwell on all the face of the earth, determining beforehand their appointed seasons and the boundaries of their
dwelling,
17:27 要叫他们寻求神，或者可以揣摩而得，其实祂离我们各人不远；
That they might seek God, if perhaps they might grope for Him and find Him, even though He is not far from each one of us;
17:28 因我们生活、行动、存留都在于祂，就如你们中间有些作诗的说，原来我们也是祂的族类。
For in Him we live and move and are, as even some poets among you have said, For we are also His race.
17:29 我们既是神的族类，就不当以为那神圣的，像人用手艺、心思所雕刻的金、银、石头一样。
Being then the race of God, we ought not to suppose that what is divine is like gold or silver or stone, like an engraving of art and thought of man.
17:30 世人蒙昧无知的时候，神并不鉴察，如今却吩咐各处的人都要悔改，
Therefore, having overlooked the times of ignorance, God now charges all men everywhere to repent,
17:31 因为祂已经定了日子，要借着祂所设立的人，按公义审判天下；祂已叫这人从死人中复活，供万人作可信的凭据。
Because He has set a day in which He is to judge the world in righteousness by the man whom He has designated, having furnished proof to all by raising Him
from the dead.
17:32 众人听见死人复活，就有讥诮他的，又有人说，我们还要再听你讲这个。
And when they heard of a resurrection of the dead, some scoffed; and others said, We will hear you yet again concerning this.
17:33 这样，保罗便从他们当中出去了。
Thus Paul went out from their midst.
17:34 但有几个人贴近他，并且信了，其中有亚略巴古的官丢尼修，和一个名叫大马哩的妇人，还有其他同着他们的人。
But some men joined him and believed, among whom also was Dionysius the Areopagite and a woman named Damaris and others with them.
使徒行传 Acts 第 18 章
18:1 这些事以后，保罗离开雅典，来到哥林多，
After these things he departed from Athens and came to Corinth.
18:2 遇见一位犹太人，名叫亚居拉，他按籍贯是本都人；因为革老丢曾命令犹太人都离开罗马，所以新近带着妻子百基拉从义大利来，保罗就到他们那里
去。
And having found a certain Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus, recently come from Italy, and Priscilla his wife (because Claudius had ordered all the Jews to
depart from Rome), he went to them.
18:3 他们本是以制造帐棚为业的，保罗因与他们同业，就和他们同住作工。
And because he was of the same trade, he remained with them and worked; for they were tentmakers by trade.
18:4 每逢安息日，保罗在会堂里辩论，劝导犹太人和希利尼人。
And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath, persuading both Jews and Greeks.
18:5 西拉和提摩太从马其顿下来的时候，保罗为道迫切，向犹太人郑重见证耶稣是基督。
And when both Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia, Paul was constrained by the word, solemnly testifying to the Jews that Jesus was the Christ.
18:6 他们既抗拒、毁谤，保罗就抖着衣服对他们说，你们的血归到你们自己头上，我是洁净的。从今以后，我要往外邦人那里去。
But when they resisted and blasphemed, he shook out his garments and said to them, Your blood be upon your head; I am clean. From now on I will go to the
Gentiles.
18:7 于是离开那里，到了一个人的家中，这人名叫提丢犹士都，是敬拜神的，他的家紧靠着会堂。
And he left there and went into the house of one named Titius Justus, one who worshipped God, whose house was next to the synagogue.
18:8 管会堂的基利司布同他全家都信了主，还有许多哥林多人听了，就信而受浸。
And Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord with his whole household; and many of the Corinthians, when they heard, believed and were
baptized.
18:9 夜里主借着异象对保罗说，不要怕，只管讲，不要静默，
And the Lord said to Paul in the night by a vision, Do not be afraid, but speak and do not be silent;
18:10 有我与你同在，必没有人下手害你，因为在这城里我有许多的百姓。
Because I Myself am with you, and no one will assail you to harm you, because I have many people in this city.
18:11 于是保罗住了一年零六个月，在他们中间教导神的话。
And he remained there a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.
18:12 到迦流作亚该亚省长的时候，犹太人同心合意起来攻击保罗，把他带到审判台，说，
But while Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews rose up against Paul with one accord and brought him to the judgment seat,
18:13 这个人煽动人不按着律法敬拜神。
Saying, This man incites men to worship God contrary to the law.
18:14 保罗刚要开口，迦流就对犹太人说，犹太人哪，如果是为冤枉或奸恶的事，我理当耐性听你们；
But when Paul was about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, If it were a matter of wrongdoing or some wicked crime, O Jews, I would for that reason
tolerate you;
18:15 但所争论的，若是关于言语、名目和你们中间的律法，你们自己看着办吧，这些事我不愿意审问。
But if there are questions concerning words and names and your own law, look after it yourselves. A judge of these things I do not intend to be.
18:16 于是把他们从审判台赶走。
And he drove them away from the judgment seat.
18:17 众人便揪住管会堂的所提尼，在审判台前打他；这些事迦流都不管。
1052
And they all laid hold of Sosthenes, the ruler of the synagogue, and beat him in front of the judgment seat. And Gallio was not concerned about any of these
things.
18:18 保罗又住了许多日，就辞别了弟兄，坐船往叙利亚去，百基拉、亚居拉和他同去。他因为有愿在身，就在坚革哩剪了头发。
And Paul, having remained there yet a considerable number of days, took leave of the brothers and sailed away to Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila,
having shorn his head in Cenchrea, for he had a vow.
18:19 到了以弗所，保罗就把他们留在那里，自己进了会堂，和犹太人辩论。
And they arrived at Ephesus, and he left them there; but he entered into the synagogue and reasoned with the JEWS.
18:20 众人请他多住些时候，他却没有答应，
And when they asked him to remain for a longer time, he did not consent;
18:21 就辞别他们说，神若愿意，我还要回到你们这里来。于是开船离了以弗所。
But taking leave of them and saying, I will come back to you again, God willing, he put out to sea from Ephesus.
18:22 在该撒利亚下了船，就上耶路撒冷问候召会，随后下安提阿去。
And coming down to Caesarea, he went up to Jerusalem and greeted the church and went down to Antioch.
18:23 住了些时候，就起行，挨次经过加拉太地区和弗吕家，坚固众门徒。
And when he had spent some time there, he went off, passing through the country of Galatia and Phrygia in order, confirming all the disciples.
18:24 有一个犹太人名叫亚波罗，来到以弗所；他按籍贯是亚力山大人，是个有口才的人，在圣经上很有能力。
And a certain Jew named Apollos, a native of Alexandria, an eloquent man, arrived at Ephesus, and he was powerful in the Scriptures.
18:25 这人已经在主的道路上受了教导，灵里火热，将耶稣的事详确的讲论教训人，只是他单晓得约翰的浸。
This man was instructed in the way of the Lord, and being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught accurately the things concerning Jesus, though he knew only the
baptism of John.
18:26 他在会堂里放胆讲论起来，百基拉和亚居拉听见，就接他来，将神的道路给他讲解得更加详确。
And this man began to speak boldly in the synagogue. And when Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they took him to themselves and expounded the way of God to
him more accurately.
18:27 他想要往亚该亚去，弟兄们就鼓励他，并写信请门徒接待他，他到了那里，就借着恩典多多帮助那些信主的人；
And when he intended to pass through into Achaia, the brothers encouraged him and wrote to the disciples to welcome him; and when he arrived there, he
helped much through grace those who had believed;
18:28 在公众面前极有能力，驳倒犹太人，引圣经证明耶稣是基督。
For he vigorously confuted the Jews publicly, showing by the Scriptures that Jesus was the Christ.
使徒行传 Acts 第 19 章
19:1 亚波罗在哥林多的时候，保罗经过上边一带地方，就来到以弗所，遇见几位门徒，
Now while Apollos was in Corinth, Paul, having passed through the upper districts, came down to Ephesus and found some disciples,
19:2 问他们说，你们信的时候，受了圣灵没有？他们对他说，我们连有圣灵都没有听说过。
And he said to them, Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed? And they said to him, On the contrary, we did not even hear whether there is a Holy Spirit.
19:3 保罗说，这样，你们受的是什么浸？他们说，是约翰的浸。
And he said, Into what then were you baptized? And they said, Into John's baptism.
19:4 保罗就说，约翰所施的是悔改的浸，告诉百姓，当信入那在他以后来的，就是耶稣。
And Paul said, John baptized with a baptism of repentance, telling the people that they should believe into the One coming after him, that is, into Jesus.
19:5 他们听了，就浸入主耶稣的名里。
And when they heard this, they were baptized into the name of the Lord Jesus.
19:6 保罗给他们按手，圣灵便降在他们身上，他们就说方言，又说预言。
And when Paul laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came upon them, and they spoke in tongues and prophesied.
19:7 一共约有十二个人。
And there were in all about twelve men.
19:8 保罗进会堂，放胆讲说，一连三个月，对于神国的事，与人辩论并劝服人。
And he entered into the synagogue and spoke boldly for three months, reasoning and persuading them in the things concerning the kingdom of God.
19:9 后来有些人刚硬不受劝服，在许多人面前毁谤这道路，保罗就离开他们，也叫门徒与他们分离，便在推喇奴的讲堂里天天辩论。
But when some were hardened and would not be persuaded, speaking evil of the Way before the multitude, he withdrew from them and separated the disciples,
reasoning daily in the school of Tyrannus.
19:10 这样有两年之久，叫一切住在亚西亚的，无论是犹太人，是希利尼人，都听见主的话。
And this took place for two years, so that all those dwelling in Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews and Greeks.
19:11 神藉保罗的手，行了非凡的异能，
And God did works of power of no ordinary kind through the hands of Paul,
19:12 甚至有人从保罗身上拿手巾或围裙，放在病人身上，疾病就离开他们，恶灵也出去了。
So that even handkerchiefs or aprons were carried away from his body to the sick, and their diseases left them, and the evil spirits went out.
19:13 那时，有几个游行各处，念咒赶鬼的犹太人，向那被恶灵附着的人，擅自称主耶稣的名，说，我靠保罗所传扬的耶稣，勒令你们出来。
But some of the Jewish exorcists who also went about took it upon themselves to name over those who had evil spirits the name of the Lord Jesus, saying, I
adjure you by the Jesus whom Paul preaches.
19:14 作这事的，有犹太祭司长士基瓦的七个儿子。
And there were seven sons of a certain Sceva, a Jewish chief priest, doing this.
19:15 恶灵回答他们说，耶稣我认识，保罗我也知道；你们却是谁？
And the evil spirit answered and said to them, Jesus I know of, and with Paul I am acquainted; but who are you?
19:16 恶灵所附的人，就扑在他们身上，制伏了二人，且胜过了他们，叫他们赤着身子带着伤，从那屋子里逃出去了。
1053
And the man in whom the evil spirit was leaped upon them, subdued both of them, and overpowered them, so that they escaped out of that house naked and
wounded.
19:17 凡住在以弗所的，无论是犹太人，是希利尼人，都知道这事，众人都惧怕，主耶稣的名也就尊大了。
And this became known to all, both Jews and Greeks, dwelling in Ephesus; and fear fell upon them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified.
19:18 那已经信的，多有人来承认并述说自己素来所行的事。
And many of those who had believed came, confessing and making known their practices.
19:19 又有许多行巫术的人，把书拿来，堆在众人面前烧毁了。他们计算书价，便知道共合五万银币。
And a considerable number of those who practiced magic brought their books together and burned them before all; and they counted up the price of them and
found it to be fifty thousand pieces of silver.
19:20 这样，主的话便强有力的扩长，而且得胜。
Thus, the word of the Lord grew mightily and prevailed.
19:21 这些事过后，保罗灵里定意，要经过马其顿、亚该亚，往耶路撒冷去，又说，我到了那里以后，也必须去罗马看看。
And when these things were fulfilled, Paul purposed in his spirit to pass through Macedonia and Achaia and go to Jerusalem, saying, After I have been there, I
must also see Rome.
19:22 于是从服事他的人中，打发提摩太和以拉都二人，往马其顿去，自己暂时留在亚西亚。
And having sent into Macedonia two of those who served him, Timothy and Erastus, he himself stayed in Asia for a time.
19:23 那时，关于这道路，起了不小的扰乱。
And about that time no small disturbance took place concerning the Way.
19:24 有一个银匠，名叫底米丢，是制造亚底米银龛的，他使这行手艺的人作了不少生意，
For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith who made silver shrines of Artemis, afforded no little business to the craftsmen.
19:25 他聚集他们和同行的工人，说，诸位，你们知道我们是倚靠这生意发财的。
These he assembled together with the workmen of similar trades as well and said, Men, you know that from this business we have our prosperity.
19:26 这保罗不但在以弗所，也几乎在全亚西亚，引诱迷惑许多群众，说，人手所作的不是神，这是你们所看见所听见的。
And you observe and hear that not only at Ephesus but in almost all of Asia this Paul has persuaded and perverted a considerable number, saying that the gods
being made by hands are no gods at all.
19:27 这样，不但我们同业这一行的荣誉会遭到损伤，就是大女神亚底米的庙，也要被算为无有，连全亚西亚和普天下所敬拜大女神的威荣，也要销灭了。
And not only is there danger that our trade will come into disrepute, but also that the temple of the great goddess Artemis will be counted as nothing and that the
magnificence of her whom the whole of Asia and the inhabited earth worships will also be overthrown.
19:28 众人听见，就怒气填胸，喊着说，大哉，以弗所人的亚底米阿！
And when they heard this, they became full of rage and began to cry out, saying, Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!
19:29 满城都混乱起来，众人抓住与保罗同行的马其顿人该犹和亚里达古，同心合意冲进剧场里去。
And the city was filled with confusion; and they rushed with one accord into the theater, seizing Gaius and Aristarchus of Macedonia, Paul's traveling companions.
19:30 保罗想要进去，到民众那里，门徒却不许他去。
And when Paul intended to enter into the populace, the disciples would not allow him.
19:31 还有几位亚西亚的首领，是保罗的朋友，打发人来劝他，不要冒险到剧场里去。
And some of the Asiarchs also, who were his friends, sent to him and entreated him not to venture into the theater himself.
19:32 聚集的人纷纷乱乱，有喊叫这个的，有喊叫那个的，多半不知道是为什么聚在一起。
So then some were crying out one thing, and some another; for the assembly was in confusion, and the majority did not know for what cause they had come
together.
19:33 有人把亚力山大从群众当中带出来，犹太人推他往前，亚力山大就摆手，要向民众分诉。
And they drew Alexander out of the crowd, the Jews having pushed him forward; and Alexander, motioning with his hand, wanted to make a defense to the
populace.
19:34 只因众人认出他是犹太人，就同声喊着：大哉，以弗所人的亚底米阿！如此约有两小时。
But when they realized that he was a Jew, one voice arose from all for about two hours, crying out, Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!
19:35 那城里的书记安抚了群众，就说，诸位，以弗所人哪，谁不知道以弗所人的城，是看守大亚底米庙，和从丢斯那里落下来之像的？
And the town clerk, having quieted the crowd, said, Men of Ephesus, which of you men is there then who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is the
temple keeper of the great Artemis and of the image fallen from Zeus?
19:36 这些事既是驳不倒的，你们就当安静，不可卤莽行事。
Since these things therefore cannot be disputed, you ought to be quiet and do nothing rash;
19:37 你们把这些人带来，他们并没有抢劫庙宇，也没有谤讟我们的女神。
For you have brought forth these men who are neither temple robbers nor blasphemers of our goddess.
19:38 若是底米丢和他同行的人，有控告人的事，自有上法庭的日期，也有省长在，他们尽可彼此对告。
If then Demetrius and the craftsmen with him have a matter against anyone, courts are being conducted and there are proconsuls; let them bring charges
against one another.
19:39 你们若还要求问别的事，就可以在合法的集会里解决。
But if you seek after anything further, it shall be settled in the legal assembly.
19:40 至于今日的事，本是无缘无故的，我们实在有被控作乱的危险；论到这闹事的集合，我们也说不出所以然来。
For indeed we are in danger of being charged with insurrection for today's affair, since there is no reason for it; and with reference to it we will not be able to give
an account concerning this disorderly gathering.
19:41 说完这话，便解散了会众。
And when he had said these things, he dismissed the assembly.
使徒行传 Acts 第 20 章
20:1 乱定之后，保罗请门徒来，劝勉了他们，就辞别起行，往马其顿去。
1054
And after the uproar had ceased, Paul, having sent for the disciples and having exhorted them, took leave of them and went off to go into Macedonia.
20:2 他走遍了那一带地方，用许多话劝勉众人，然后来到希腊。
And when he had passed through those parts and had exhorted them with many words, he came into Greece,
20:3 住了三个月，正要坐船往叙利亚去的时候，犹太人设计要害他，他就定意从马其顿回去。
And spent three months there. And when a plot was made against him by the Jews as he was about to set sail for Syria, he resolved to return through
Macedonia.
20:4 同他到亚西亚去的，有庇哩亚人毕罗斯的儿子所巴特，帖撒罗尼迦人亚里达古和西公都，还有特庇人该犹并提摩太，又有亚西亚人推基古和特罗非摩。
And Sopater of Berea, the son of Pyrrhus, accompanied him, as well as Aristarchus and Secundus of the Thessalonians and Gaius of Derbe and Timothy and the
Asians, Tychicus and Trophimus.
20:5 这些人先走，在特罗亚等候我们。
These had gone on ahead and were waiting for us at Troas.
20:6 过了除酵的日子，我们从腓立比开船，五天后到了特罗亚他们那里，在那里住了七天。
And we sailed away from Philippi after the days of Unleavened Bread and in five days came to them in Troas, where we spent seven days.
20:7 七日的第一日，我们聚集擘饼的时候，保罗因为次日要起行，就与他们讲论，直讲到半夜。
And on the first day of the week, when we gathered together to break bread, Paul conversed with them since he was to go forth on the next day; and he
extended his message until midnight.
20:8 我们聚集的那座楼上，有好些灯。
And there were a considerable number of lamps in the upper room where we were gathered together.
20:9 有一个青年人名叫犹推古，坐在窗台上，困倦沉睡；保罗讲论了多时，这青年人睡熟了，就从三层楼上掉下去；扶起来，已经死了。
And a certain young man named Eutychus was sitting in the window and began to sink into deep sleep while Paul conversed longer; and when he had been
overcome by sleep, he fell down from the third story and was taken up dead.
20:10 保罗下去，伏在他身上，抱着他说，你们不要慌张，因为他的魂还在身上。
But Paul went down and fell upon him, and embracing him, he said, Do not make a commotion, for his soul is in him.
20:11 保罗又上去，擘饼，吃了，谈论许久，直到天亮，这才走了。
And when he had gone up and broken the bread and eaten and had spoken for a considerable time, until daybreak, he therefore went forth.
20:12 他们把那孩子活活的领来，得了不少的安慰。
And they brought the boy alive and were comforted, and that not moderately.
20:13 我们先上船开往亚朔去，意思要在那里接保罗，因为他是这样安排的，他自己打算要步行。
But we, going ahead onto the ship, set sail for Assos, from there intending to pick up Paul, for so he had arranged it, himself intending to go by foot.
20:14 他既在亚朔与我们相会，我们就接他上船，来到米推利尼。
And when he met us in Assos, we picked him up and came to Mitylene.
20:15 从那里开船，次日到了基阿的对面，又次日越过去，在撒摩靠岸，又次日来到米利都。
And sailing away from there, on the following day we arrived opposite Chios; and on the next day we put in at Samos. And on the day following we came to
Miletus,
20:16 因为保罗早已定意越过以弗所，免得在亚西亚耽延时日；他急忙前行，巴不得赶五旬节能到耶路撒冷。
For Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus so that he might not have to spend time in Asia; for he was hurrying so that if possible he might be in Jerusalem on the
day of Pentecost.
20:17 保罗从米利都打发人往以弗所去，请召会的长老来。
And from Miletus he sent word to Ephesus and called for the elders of the church.
20:18 他们来到他那里，他就对他们说，你们知道，自从我到亚西亚第一天以来，与你们在一起始终为人如何，
And when they came to him, he said to them, You yourselves know, from the first day that I set foot in Asia, how I was with you all the time,
20:19 服事主，凡事谦卑，常常流泪，又因犹太人的谋害，历经试炼。
Serving the Lord as a slave with all humility and tears and trials which came upon me by the plots of the Jews;
20:20 凡与你们有益的，我没有一样避讳不告诉你们的，或在公众面前，或挨家挨户，我都教导你们。
How I did not withhold any of those things that are profitable by not declaring them to you and by not teaching you publicly and from house to house,
20:21 又对犹太人和希利尼人郑重作见证，当悔改归向神，信入我们的主耶稣。
Solemnly testifying both to Jews and to Greeks repentance unto God and faith in our Lord Jesus.
20:22 看哪，现在我灵里受捆绑，要往耶路撒冷去，不知道在那里要遇见什么事，
And now, behold, I am going bound in the spirit to Jerusalem, not knowing what will meet me there,
20:23 只知道圣灵在各城里向我郑重见证说，有捆锁与患难等着我。
Except that the Holy Spirit solemnly testifies to me in city after city, saying that bonds and afflictions await me.
20:24 我却不以性命为念，也不看为宝贵，只要行完我的路程，成就我从主耶稣所领受的职事，郑重见证神恩典的福音。
But I consider my life of no account as if precious to myself, in order that I may finish my course and the ministry which I have received from the Lord Jesus to
solemnly testify of the gospel of the grace of God.
20:25 我曾在你们中间来往，传扬国度，看哪，如今我晓得，你们众人都不会再见我的面了。
And now, behold, I know that you all, among whom I have gone about proclaiming the kingdom, will see my face no more.
20:26 所以我今日向你们见证，我在众人的血上是洁净的。
Therefore I testify to you on this day that I am clean from the blood of all men,
20:27 因为神的旨意，我并没有一样避讳不告诉你们。
For I did not shrink from declaring to you all the counsel of God.
20:28 圣灵立你们作全群的监督，你们就当为自己谨慎，也为全群谨慎，牧养神的召会，就是祂用自己的血所买来的。
Take heed to yourselves and to all the flock, among whom the Holy Spirit has placed you as overseers to shepherd the church of God, which He obtained through
His own blood.
20:29 我知道我离开以后，必有凶暴的豺狼进入你们中间，不爱惜羊群。
I know that after my departure fierce wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock.
20:30 就是你们中间，也必有人起来，说悖谬的话，要勾引门徒跟从他们。
1055
And from among you yourselves men will rise up, speaking perverted things to draw away the disciples after them.
20:31 所以你们应当儆醒，记念我三年之久，昼夜不住的流泪劝戒你们各人。
Therefore watch, remembering that for three years, night and day, I did not cease admonishing each one with tears.
20:32 如今我把你们交托神和祂恩典的话，这话能建造你们，叫你们在一切圣别的人中得着基业。
And now I commit you to God and to the word of His grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who have been
sanctified.
20:33 我未曾贪图过任何人的金、银、衣服。
I have coveted no one's silver or gold or clothing.
20:34 我这两只手常供给我和同伴的需用，这是你们自己知道的。
You yourselves know that these hands have ministered to my needs and to those who are with me.
20:35 我凡事给你们作了榜样，叫你们知道，必须这样劳苦，扶助软弱的人，并且记念主耶稣的话，祂自己说过，施比受更为有福。
In all things I have shown you by example that toiling in this way we ought to support the weak and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, that He Himself
said, It is more blessed to give than to receive.
20:36 保罗说完了这话，就跪下，同众人祷告。
And when he had said these things, he knelt down with them all and prayed.
20:37 众人痛哭，抱着保罗的颈项，热切的和他亲嘴。
And there was considerable weeping by all; and falling on Paul's neck, they kissed him affectionately,
20:38 叫他们最伤心的，就是他说，他们不能再见他面的那句话。于是送他上船去了。
Especially pained over the word which he had spoken, that they would no longer behold his face. And they escorted him to the ship.
使徒行传 Acts 第 21 章
21:1 我们离别了众人，就开船直航，来到哥士，第二天到了罗底，从那里到帕大喇；
And when we parted from them and set sail, we took a straight course and came to Cos, and on the next day to Rhodes, and from there to Patara.
21:2 遇见一只船要开往腓尼基去，就上船起行。
And having found a ship crossing over to Phoenicia, we went on board and set sail.
21:3 望见居比路，就从左边驶过，往叙利亚去，我们就在推罗上岸，因为船要在那里卸货。
And when we sighted Cyprus and left it on the left, we sailed to Syria and came down to Tyre; for there the ship was to unload its cargo.
21:4 我们找着了门徒，就在那里住了七天。他们借着那灵对保罗说，不要上耶路撒冷去。
And when we had sought out the disciples, we remained there seven days. These told Paul through the Spirit not to set foot in Jerusalem.
21:5 过了这几天，我们就动身前行，众人同妻子儿女送我们到城外，我们都跪在岸上祷告，彼此辞别。
And when we completed the days, we went forth and went on our way, with all of them, including the women and children, escorting us until we were outside
the city. And when we had knelt down on the beach and prayed,
21:6 我们上了船，他们就回自己家里去了。
We took leave of one another and went on board the ship; and they returned home.
21:7 我们行完了航程，从推罗来到多利买，问候弟兄们，同他们住了一天。
And when we finished the voyage from Tyre, we arrived at Ptolemais; and we greeted the brothers and remained with them one day.
21:8 第二天，我们离开那里，来到该撒利亚，就进了传福音者腓利家里，和他同住，他是那七个执事里的一个。
And on the next day we went forth and came to Caesarea; and entering into the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven, we remained with him.
21:9 他有四个女儿，都是童女，是说预言的。
Now this man had four virgin daughters who prophesied.
21:10 我们多住了几天，有一个申言者名叫亚迦布，从犹太下来。
And while we remained there many days, a certain prophet named Agabus came down from Judea.
21:11 到了我们这里，就拿保罗的腰带，捆上自己的手脚，说，圣灵这样说，犹太人在耶路撒冷，要如此捆绑这腰带的主人，把他交在外邦人手里。
And he came to us and took Paul's belt; and having bound his own feet and hands, he said, Thus says the Holy Spirit, In this way will the Jews in Jerusalem bind
the man whose belt this is and deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.
21:12 我们听见这话，就和当地的人苦劝保罗不要上耶路撒冷去。
And when we heard these things, both we and those in that place entreated him not to go up to Jerusalem.
21:13 保罗却回答说，你们为什么痛哭，使我心碎？我为主耶稣的名，不但被捆绑，就是死在耶路撒冷，我也准备好了。
Then Paul answered, What are you doing, weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be bound, but also to die in Jerusalem for the name of the
Lord Jesus.
21:14 保罗既不听劝，我们也就静默，只说，愿主的旨意成就。
And since he would not be persuaded, we became silent, saying, The will of the Lord be done.
21:15 过了几天，我们便收拾行李，上耶路撒冷去。
And after these days we gathered our baggage and went up to Jerusalem.
21:16 有该撒利亚的几个门徒也和我们同去，带着一个久为门徒的居比路人拿孙，我们好与他同住。
And some of the disciples from Caesarea also went with us, bringing us to a certain Mnason of Cyprus, an early disciple, with whom we were to lodge.
21:17 到了耶路撒冷，弟兄们欢欢喜喜的接待我们。
And when we had come to Jerusalem, the brothers welcomed us gladly.
21:18 第二天，保罗同我们去见雅各，长老们也都在那里。
And on the following day Paul went in with us to James, and all the elders were present.
21:19 保罗问候了他们，便将神借着他的职事，在外邦人中所行的事，都一一述说出来。
And having greeted them, he related one by one the things which God did among the Gentiles through his ministry.
21:20 他们听见了，就荣耀神，并对保罗说，弟兄，你看犹太人中信主的有多少万，并且都为律法热心。
1056
And when they heard it, they glorified God and said to him, You observe, brother, how many thousands there are among the Jews who have believed; and all
are zealous for the law.
21:21 他们听说，你教训一切在外邦的犹太人背弃摩西，对他们说，不要给孩子行割礼，也不要遵行规例。
And they have been informed concerning you that you are teaching all the Jews throughout the nations apostasy from Moses, telling them not to circumcise their
children, nor to walk according to the customs.
21:22 众人总会听见你已来了，这可怎么办？
What then is to be done? They will certainly hear that you have come.
21:23 你就照着我们所告诉你的行吧。我们这里有四个人，都有愿在身；
Therefore do this that we tell you: We have four men who have a vow on themselves;
21:24 你带这些人去，与他们一同行洁净的礼，替他们缴费，叫他们得以剃头，这样，众人就可知道，先前所听说你的事都是虚的，反而你自己却是按规
律而行，遵行律法。
Take these and be purified with them, and pay their expenses that they may shave their heads. And all will know that there is nothing to the things that they have
been informed of concerning you, but that you yourself also walk orderly, keeping the law.
21:25 至于信主的外邦人，我们已经写信断定，叫他们自守，远避祭偶像之物和血，并勒死的牲畜与淫乱。
But concerning the Gentiles who have believed, we have already written, having decided that they should keep themselves from idol sacrifices and blood and
anything strangled and fornication.
21:26 于是第二天，保罗带着那四个人，与他们一同行了洁净的礼，进了殿，报明洁净的日期满足，只等祭司为他们各人献上供物。
Then Paul took the men and on the following day, being purified with them, entered into the temple, giving notice of the completion of the days of the purification,
until the offering was offered for each one of them.
21:27 那七日将完，从亚西亚来的犹太人，看见保罗在殿里，就耸动了所有的群众，下手拿他，
And when the seven days were about to be concluded, the Jews from Asia saw him in the temple and threw all the crowd into confusion; and they laid their
hands on him,
21:28 喊叫着说，诸位，以色列人哪，请帮忙，这人就是那在各处教训众人反对我们的百姓、律法和这地方的；他又带着希利尼人进殿，污秽了这圣地。
Crying out, Men of Israel, help! This is the man who teaches all men everywhere against the people and the law and this place; and further, he has even brought
Greeks into the temple and has profaned this holy place.
21:29 原来他们先前看见以弗所人特罗非摩同保罗在城里，就以为保罗带他进了殿。
For they had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian in the city with him, whom they supposed Paul had brought into the temple.
21:30 全城都震动了，百姓一齐跑来，拿住保罗，拉他出殿，殿门立刻都关了。
And the whole city was stirred, and the people ran together; and they laid hold of Paul and dragged him outside the temple; and immediately the doors were
shut.
21:31 他们正想要杀他，有人报信给营里的千夫长说，全耶路撒冷都乱了。
And as they were seeking to kill him, a report came up to the commander of the cohort that all Jerusalem was in confusion.
21:32 千夫长立刻带着兵丁和几个百夫长，跑下去到他们那里；他们见了千夫长和兵丁，就止住不打保罗。
And he at once took soldiers and centurions and ran down to them. And when they saw the commander and the soldiers, they stopped beating Paul.
21:33 于是千夫长上前拿住他，吩咐用两条铁链捆锁，又查问他是什么人，作的是什么事。
Then the commander drew near and laid hold of him and ordered him to be bound with two chains. And he inquired who he might be and what he had done.
21:34 群众中间有喊叫这个的，有喊叫那个的，千夫长因为这样乱嚷，无法得知实情，就吩咐人将保罗带进营楼去。
And some among the crowd were shouting one thing, and some another. And since he could not find out the facts because of the uproar, he ordered him to be
brought into the barracks.
21:35 到了台阶上，由于群众挤得凶猛，兵丁只得将保罗抬起来，
And when Paul came to the stairs, it so happened that he was being carried by the soldiers because of the violence of the crowd;
21:36 有许多的百姓跟随着，喊叫说，除掉他！
For the multitude of the people were following and crying out, Away with him!
21:37 将要带进营楼的时候，保罗对千夫长说，我对你说句话，可以不可以？他说，你懂得希利尼话么？
And when he was about to be brought into the barracks, Paul said to the commander, Am I allowed to say anything to you? And he said, You know Greek?
21:38 莫非你是前些日子作乱，带领四千凶徒，往旷野去的那埃及人么？
You are not then the Egyptian who some days ago revolted and led out the four thousand men of the Assassins into the wilderness?
21:39 保罗说，我本是犹太人，是基利家的大数人，并不是无名小城的居民，求你准我向百姓说话。
But Paul said, I am a Jewish man of Tarsus in Cilicia, a citizen of no insignificant city, and I beg you, permit me to speak to the people.
21:40 千夫长准了，保罗就站在台阶上，向百姓摆手，他们都静默无声，保罗便用希伯来语对他们讲话，说：
And when he had given him permission, Paul stood on the stairs and motioned with his hand to the people. And when there was a great silence, he addressed
them in the Hebrew dialect, saying,
使徒行传 Acts 第 22 章
22:1 诸位，弟兄父老，请听我现在对你们所分诉的。
Men, brothers and fathers, hear my defense which I now make to you.
22:2 众人听见他用希伯来语对他们讲话，就更加安静了。
And when they heard that he addressed them in the Hebrew dialect, they became more quiet. And he said,
22:3 保罗说，我是犹太人，生在基利家的大数，在这城里长大，在迦玛列脚前，按着我们祖宗严紧的律法受教，我为神热心，像你们众人今日一样。
I am a Jew, born in Tarsus of Cilicia but brought up in this city and trained at the feet of Gamaliel, according to the strictness of the law of our fathers, being
zealous for God, even as you all are today.
22:4 我也曾逼迫过这道路上的人，直到死地，无论男女都捆绑起来，下在监里，
And I persecuted this Way unto death, binding and delivering to prisons both men and women,
22:5 这是大祭司和众长老都可以给我作见证的。我又从他们领了给弟兄们的文书，往大马色去，要把在那里走这道路的人捆绑起来，带到耶路撒冷受刑。
1057
As also the high priest and all the assembly of the elders testify for me; from whom I also received letters to the brothers and went to Damascus to bring those
also who were there bound to Jerusalem that they might be punished.
22:6 我将到大马色，正走的时候，约在中午，忽然从天上发出大光，四面照着我，
And as I journeyed and drew near to Damascus about midday, suddenly a great light flashed out of heaven around me;
22:7 我就仆倒在地，听见有声音对我说，扫罗，扫罗，你为什么逼迫我？
And I fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to me, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting Me?
22:8 我回答说，主阿，你是谁？祂对我说，我就是你所逼迫的拿撒勒人耶稣。
And I answered, Who are You, Lord? And He said to me, I am Jesus the Nazarene, whom you persecute.
22:9 与我同行的人看见了那光，却没有听明那对我说话者的声音。
And those who were with me beheld the light, but did not hear the voice of the One who was speaking to me.
22:10 我说，主阿，我当作什么？主对我说，起来，进大马色去，在那里要将所派你作的一切事都告诉你。
And I said, What shall I do, Lord? And the Lord said to me, Rise up and go into Damascus, and there it will be told to you concerning all the things which have
been appointed to you to do.
22:11 我因那光的荣耀，不能看见，就由同行的人牵着我的手，进了大马色。
And as I could not see because of the glory of that light, I was led by the hand by those who were with me and came into Damascus.
22:12 有一个人名叫亚拿尼亚，按着律法是虔诚人，为一切住在那里的犹太人所称赞。
And a certain Ananias, a devout man according to the law, well attested to by all the Jews dwelling there,
22:13 他到我这里来，站在旁边对我说，扫罗弟兄，你看见吧。我当时一看，就看见了他。
Came to me, and standing by, said to me, Brother Saul, receive your sight! And in that very hour I looked up at him.
22:14 他又说，我们祖宗的神预先选定了你，叫你认识祂的旨意，又得见那义者，且得听祂口中所出的声音；
And he said, The God of our fathers has previously appointed you to know His will and to see the righteous One and to hear the voice from His mouth;
22:15 因为你要将所看见所听见的，向万人为祂作见证。
For you will be a witness to Him unto all men of the things which you have seen and heard.
22:16 现在你为什么耽延？起来，呼求着祂的名受浸，洗去你的罪。
And now, why do you delay? Rise up and be baptized and wash away your sins, calling on His name.
22:17 后来我回到耶路撒冷，在殿里祷告的时候，魂游象外，
And when I returned to Jerusalem and was praying in the temple, I went into a trance;
22:18 看见主向我说，你要赶紧，快快离开耶路撒冷，因你为我所作的见证，人必不领受。
And I saw Him saying to me, Hurry, and go quickly out of Jerusalem, because they will not accept your testimony concerning Me.
22:19 我就说，主阿，他们知道我从前把信靠你的人收在监里，又在各会堂里鞭打他们，
And I said, Lord, they know that I was imprisoning and beating from synagogue to synagogue those who believe on You;
22:20 并且你的见证人司提反遇害流血的时候，我还亲自站在旁边，予以赞同，并且看守害死他之人的衣服。
And when the blood of Your witness Stephen was being shed, I myself also was standing by and approving and keeping the garments of those who did away
with him.
22:21 主向我说，你去吧，因为我要差遣你远远的往外邦人那里去。
And He said to me, Go, for I will send you forth far away to the Gentiles.
22:22 众人听他说到这句话，就高声说，这样的人从地上除掉吧，他是不该活着的。
And they listened to him up to this word, and then they lifted up their voice, saying, Away from the earth with such a man, for it is not fitting for him to live!
22:23 众人喧嚷，摔掉衣服，把尘土向空中扬起来，
And as they were crying out and casting off their garments and throwing dust in the air,
22:24 千夫长就吩咐人将保罗带进营楼，叫人用鞭子拷问他，要确知他们向他这样喊叫，是为什么缘故。
The commander ordered him to be brought into the barracks, saying that he should be examined by scourging in order that he might ascertain for what cause
they were shouting against him so.
22:25 刚用皮带捆上，保罗对旁边站着的百夫长说，人是罗马人，又没有定罪，你们就鞭打，这是合法的么？
But as they stretched him out with the thongs, Paul said to the centurion standing by, Is it lawful for you to scourge a man who is a Roman and uncondemned?
22:26 百夫长听了，就到千夫长跟前，报告说，你要怎么作？这人是个罗马人。
And when the centurion heard this, he went to the commander and reported, saying, What are you about to do? For this man is a Roman.
22:27 千夫长就进前来对保罗说，你告诉我，你是罗马人么？保罗说，是的。
And the commander came and said to him, Tell me, are you a Roman? And he said, Yes.
22:28 千夫长回答说，我用许多银子，才取得这公民权。保罗说，我生来就是。
And the commander answered, With a large sum of money I acquired this citizenship. And Paul said, But I was even born a Roman.
22:29 于是那些要拷问保罗的人，立刻离开他去了。千夫长既确知他是罗马人，又因为捆绑了他，也害怕了。
Immediately therefore those who were about to examine him withdrew from him; and the commander also was afraid, realizing that he was a Roman and that
he had bound him.
22:30 第二天，千夫长想要知道犹太人控告保罗的实情，便解开他，吩咐祭司长和全议会的人都聚集，将保罗带下来，叫他站在他们面前。
And on the next day he, intending to find out for certain why he was accused by the Jews, released him and ordered the chief priests and all the Sanhedrin to
come together; and having brought Paul down, he had him stand before them.
使徒行传 Acts 第 23 章
23:1 保罗定睛看着议会，说，诸位，弟兄们，我在神面前行事为人都是凭着无亏的良心，直到今日。
And Paul, looking intently at the Sanhedrin, said, Men, brothers, I have conducted myself in all good conscience before God until this day.
23:2 大祭司亚拿尼亚就吩咐旁边站着的人打他的嘴。
And the high priest Ananias commanded those who stood by him to strike him on the mouth.
23:3 保罗对他说，你这粉饰的墙，神将要击打你了。你坐堂是要按律法审问我，你竟违背律法，吩咐人打我么？
1058
Then Paul said to him, God is going to strike you, you whitewashed wall. And do you sit to judge me according to the law, and contrary to the law you order me
to be struck?
23:4 站在旁边的人说，你辱骂神的大祭司么？
And those standing by said, Do you revile the high priest of God?
23:5 保罗说，弟兄们，我不晓得他是大祭司；经上记着，“不可毁谤你百姓的官长。”
And Paul said, I did not know, brothers, that he is the high priest; for it is written, "You shall not speak evilly of the ruler of your people.''
23:6 保罗看出其中一部分是撒都该人，另一部分是法利赛人，就在议会中喊着说，诸位，弟兄们，我是法利赛人，是法利赛人的子孙；我现在受审问，是
为了盼望死人复活。
And Paul, knowing that one part was Sadducees and the other Pharisees, cried out in the Sanhedrin, Men, brothers, I am a Pharisee, a son of Pharisees;
concerning the hope and resurrection of the dead I am being judged!
23:7 他说了这话，法利赛人和撒都该人便起了争执，会众就分裂了。
And when he spoke this, a dissension took place between the Pharisees and Sadducees; and the multitude was divided.
23:8 因为撒都该人说没有复活，也没有天使和灵；法利赛人却样样都承认。
For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, neither angel nor spirit; but the Pharisees confess both.
23:9 于是大大的喧嚷起来，有几个法利赛派的经学家站起来争辩说，我们在这人身上看不出什么恶来，说不定有灵或天使对他说过话。
And there was a great outcry; and some of the scribes of the Pharisees' party rose up and contended, saying, We find nothing evil in this man. And what if a spirit
has spoken to him, or an angel?
23:10 那时大起纷争，千夫长恐怕保罗被他们扯碎了，就吩咐兵丁下去，把他从众人当中抢出来，带进营楼去。
And when much dissension had taken place, the commander, fearing that Paul might be torn to pieces by them, ordered the detachment of soldiers to go down
and seize him from their midst and bring him into the barracks.
23:11 当夜，主站在保罗旁边说，你当壮胆，你怎样在耶路撒冷郑重的为我作了见证，也必照样在罗马为我作见证。
But in the night following, the Lord stood by him and said, Take courage, for as you have solemnly testified to the things concerning Me in Jerusalem, so also you
must testify in Rome.
23:12 到了天亮，犹太人就团结同谋，发咒起誓说，若不先杀保罗，就不吃不喝。
And when it became day, the Jews formed a plot and put themselves under a curse, saying that they would neither eat nor drink until they had killed Paul.
23:13 一同起誓订这阴谋的，有四十多人。
And there were more than forty who swore to this conspiracy.
23:14 他们来到祭司长和长老跟前，说，我们已经厉害的发咒起誓，若不先杀保罗，就不吃什么。
They came to the chief priests and the elders and said, We have bound ourselves with a curse to taste nothing until we kill Paul.
23:15 现在你们连同议会要通知千夫长，叫他带保罗下到你们这里来，假作要更详确审断他的事；我们已经预备好了，不等他走近，就杀掉他。
Now therefore you, with the Sanhedrin, notify the commander to bring him down to you, as though you were going to determine more accurately the things
concerning him; and we, before he draws near, are ready to do away with him.
23:16 保罗的外甥听见这埋伏的事，就来，进了营楼，告诉保罗。
But the son of Paul's sister heard of the ambush, and he came and entered into the barracks and reported it to Paul.
23:17 保罗请一个百夫长来，说，你带这青年人到千夫长那里，他有事要告诉他。
And Paul called one of the centurions to him and said, Bring this young man to the commander, for he has something to report to him.
23:18 于是百夫长拉着他，带到千夫长那里，说，被囚的保罗请我到他那里，求我带这青年人到你这里，他有事要告诉你。
So he took him and brought him to the commander and said, The prisoner Paul called me to him and asked me to bring this young man to you, because he has
something to tell you.
23:19 千夫长就拉着他的手走到一旁，私下查问说，你有什么事要告诉我？
And the commander took him by the hand and, withdrawing privately, inquired, What is it that you have to report to me?
23:20 他说，犹太人已经约定，要求你明天带保罗下到议会里去，假作要更详确查问他的事。
And he said, The Jews have agreed to ask you to bring Paul down tomorrow to the Sanhedrin, as though they were going to inquire somewhat more accurately
concerning him.
23:21 你不要听从他们，因为他们中间有四十多人，埋伏着等待保罗，并且已经发咒起誓，若不先杀保罗，就不吃不喝；现在他们预备好了，只等你应允。
So you should not be persuaded by them, for more than forty of their men are lying in ambush for him; they have put themselves under a curse neither to eat nor
to drink until they have done away with him. And now they are ready, awaiting the promise from you.
23:22 于是千夫长打发那青年人走，嘱咐他说，不要对任何人泄漏，说你将这事通知我了。
So the commander dismissed the young man, charging him, Do not tell anyone that you have informed me of these things.
23:23 千夫长便叫了两个百夫长来，说，预备步兵二百、马兵七十、长枪手二百，今夜九时往该撒利亚去。
And he called to him a certain two of the centurions and said, Prepare two hundred soldiers to go as far as Caesarea, as well as seventy horsemen and two
hundred spearmen, by the third hour of the night;
23:24 也要预备牲口叫保罗骑上，把他平安的护送到总督腓力斯那里去。
And they were also to provide mounts to put Paul on and bring him safely to Felix the governor.
23:25 千夫长又写了文书，
And he wrote a letter having this form:
23:26 大意如下：革老丢吕西亚请总督腓力斯大人安。
Claudius Lysias, to his Excellency, Governor Felix, rejoice.
23:27 这人被犹太人拿住，将要遭害，我得知他是罗马人，就带兵丁到场，把他救出来。
This man, having been seized by the Jews and about to be done away with by them, I came upon with my detachment of soldiers and rescued, when I learned
that he was a Roman.
23:28 因为想要确知他们告他的缘故，我就带他下到他们的议会去，
And intending to ascertain the cause for which they were accusing him, I brought him down to their Sanhedrin,
23:29 便查知他被告，是因他们律法的问题，并没有什么该死该绑的罪名。
And found him to be accused concerning questions of their law, but having nothing worthy of death or of bonds laid to his charge.
23:30 后来有人把要害这人的阴谋告诉我，我就立刻解他到你那里去，又吩咐告他的人，到你面前告他。
1059
And when it was disclosed to me that there was a plot against the man, I sent him at once to you, charging the accusers also to speak the things against him
before you.
23:31 于是兵丁照所指示他们的，夜里将保罗带到安提帕底。
So the soldiers, according to what they had been directed, took up Paul and brought him by night to Antipatris.
23:32 第二天让马兵同保罗前行，他们就回营楼去了。
And on the next day, leaving the horsemen to depart with him, they returned to the barracks.
23:33 马兵来到该撒利亚，把文书呈给总督，也把保罗带到他面前。
And when they entered into Caesarea and handed over the letter to the governor, they presented Paul also to him.
23:34 总督念了，就问保罗是那省的人；既查知他是基利家人，
And when he had read it, he asked from what province he was; and learning that he was from Cilicia,
23:35 就说，等告你的人来到，我要细听你的事。便吩咐人把他看守在希律的王府里。
He said, I will hear your case fully when your accusers also arrive. And he ordered him to be guarded in Herod's praetorium.
使徒行传 Acts 第 24 章
24:1 过了五天，大祭司亚拿尼亚同几个长老，和一个辩士帖土罗下来，向总督控告保罗。
And after five days the high priest Ananias came down with some elders and a certain orator, Tertullus; and they gave their information against Paul to the
governor.
24:2 保罗被传了来，帖土罗就控告说，
And when Paul was called, Tertullus began to accuse him saying, Since we have obtained much peace through you, and since reforms are being carried out for
this nation through your forethought
24:3 腓力斯大人，我们因你得以大享太平，并且这国因你的先见，随事随处得了改革，我们满心感谢的领受。
Both in every way and everywhere, we welcome it, most excellent Felix, with all thankfulness.
24:4 但为了不多耽误你，只求你宽容，略听我们几句。
But that I may not detain you further, I entreat you to hear us briefly in your forbearance.
24:5 我们看这个人是瘟疫，是鼓动普天下众犹太人生乱的，又是拿撒勒派里的一个头目，
For we have found this man a pest and an agitator of insurrections among all the Jews throughout the inhabited earth and a ringleader of the sect of the
Nazarenes,
24:6 连圣殿他也试图要污秽，我们把他捉住了，要按我们的律法审问。
Who has also tried to profane the temple. Him also we laid hold of and wanted to judge according to our law,
24:7 不料，千夫长吕西亚前来，甚是强横，从我们手中把他夺去，
But Lysias the commander came by and with much force took him away from our hands
24:8 吩咐告他的人到你这里来。你自己查问他，就可以确知我们告他的一切事了。
And ordered his accusers to come to you. When you have examined this man yourself concerning all these things, you will be able to ascertain from him the
things which we accuse him of.
24:9 众犹太人也都附和，证实事情确是这样。
And the Jews also joined in the attack, affirming that these things were so.
24:10 总督点头叫保罗说话，他就回答说，我知道你在这国里审案多年，所以我乐意为自己的事分诉。
And when the governor nodded for him to speak, Paul answered: Knowing that for many years you have been a judge to this nation, I gladly make my defense
for the things concerning myself,
24:11 你能确知，从我上耶路撒冷敬拜，到今日不过有十二天。
Since you can realize that it is not more than twelve days since I went up to worship in Jerusalem.
24:12 他们并没有看见我在殿里，或是在会堂里，或是在城里，同什么人辩论，或耸动群众，
And neither in the temple did they find me disputing with anyone nor stirring up a crowd, nor in the synagogues, nor throughout the city.
24:13 就是他们现在所告我的事，也不能向你证实。
Neither are they able to prove to you the things which they now accuse me of.
24:14 但有一件事我要向你承认，就是我正按着他们所称为异端的道路，事奉我们祖宗的神，又信合乎律法的，和申言者书上一切所记载的；
But I confess this to you, that according to the Way, which they call a sect, so I serve the God of our fathers, believing all the things that are written in the Law and
in the Prophets;
24:15 我向神存着盼望，无论义的和不义的都要复活，就是他们自己也是这样盼望。
Having hope toward God, which these themselves also look for, that there is to be a resurrection of both the righteous and the unrighteous.
24:16 我因此操练自己，对神对人常存无亏的良心。
Because of this I also exercise myself to always have a conscience without offense toward God and men.
24:17 过了几年，我上去周济我本国的百姓，并献供物，
Now after many years I came bringing alms to my nation and offerings;
24:18 正献的时候，他们看见我在殿里已经洁净了，并没有聚众，也没有生乱，不过只有几个从亚西亚来的犹太人，
In which they found me purified in the temple, with no crowd or uproar. But certain Jews from Asia,
24:19 他们若有告我的事，就应当到你面前来告我。
Who should have been present before you and made accusation if they had anything against me --
24:20 即或不然，当我站在议会前，这些人若看出我有不对的地方，他们自己也可以说出来。
Or else let these men themselves say what wrongdoing they found when I stood before the Sanhedrin,
24:21 纵然有，也不过是为了我站在他们中间所喊的这一声：我今日在你们面前受审，是为死人复活。
Other than concerning this one sound which I cried out while standing among them, Concerning the resurrection of the dead I am being judged today before you.
24:22 腓力斯既更加详确的晓得关于这道路的事，就拖延他们，说，且等千夫长吕西亚下来，我要审断你们的事。
But Felix, knowing more accurately the things concerning the Way, deferred them, saying, When Lysias the commander comes down, I will determine your affairs.
1060
24:23 于是吩咐百夫长看守保罗，并且宽待他，也不拦阻他自己的人来供给他。
And he directed the centurion to keep him in custody, and that he should have some liberty and that no one should prevent his own people from attending to him.
24:24 过了几天，腓力斯和他夫人犹太的女子土西拉一同来到，就传见保罗，并听他讲论信入基督耶稣的事。
But after some days, Felix arrived with Drusilla his wife, who was a Jewess, and he sent for Paul and heard him concerning the faith in Christ Jesus.
24:25 保罗讲论公义、节制、和将来的审判，腓力斯感到惧怕，就说，你暂且去吧，等我得便再叫你来。
And as he was reasoning concerning righteousness and self-control and the judgment to come, Felix became afraid and answered, Go for the present, and
when I have an opportunity, I will call for you;
24:26 同时腓力斯又指望保罗送钱给他，所以屡次打发人叫他来，和他谈论。
Hoping at the same time also that money would be given to him by Paul. Therefore he also sent for him more frequently and conversed with him.
24:27 过了两年，波求非斯都接了腓力斯的任；腓力斯要讨好犹太人，就留保罗在捆锁中。
And when two years were completed, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus; and wanting to gain favor with the Jews, Felix left Paul bound.
使徒行传 Acts 第 25 章
25:1 非斯都到省上任，过了三天，就从该撒利亚上耶路撒冷去。
Festus therefore, having come into the province, after three days went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea.
25:2 祭司长和犹太人的首领，向他控告保罗，
And the chief priests and leading men of the Jews gave their information to him against Paul; and they entreated him,
25:3 不断恳求非斯都，向他求情对付保罗，将他提到耶路撒冷来，他们要在路上埋伏杀害他。
Asking for a favor against him, that he would summon him to Jerusalem, they themselves setting an ambush to do away with him on the way.
25:4 非斯都就回答说，保罗押在该撒利亚，我不久就要亲自往那里去。
Festus therefore answered that Paul was being kept in custody in Caesarea, and that he himself was about to proceed there shortly.
25:5 又说，你们中间有权势的人与我一同下去，那人若有什么不是，就可以告他。
Therefore, he said, let influential men from among you go down with me, and if there is anything wrong in the man, let them accuse him.
25:6 非斯都在他们中间，住了不过十天八天，就下该撒利亚去，第二天坐在审判台上，吩咐将保罗提上来。
And having stayed among them not more than eight or ten days, he went down to Caesarea; and on the next day he sat on the judgment seat and ordered Paul
to be brought.
25:7 保罗来了，那些从耶路撒冷下来的犹太人，围绕他站着，提出许多严重的事控告他，都是他们不能证实的。
And when he arrived, the Jews who had come down from Jerusalem stood around him, bringing many serious charges against him, which they were not able to
prove,
25:8 保罗分诉说，无论犹太人的律法，或是圣殿，或是该撒，我都没有得罪过。
While Paul said in his defense, Neither against the law of the Jews nor against the temple nor against Caesar have I sinned in anything.
25:9 但非斯都要讨好犹太人，就回答保罗说，关于这些事，你愿意上耶路撒冷去，在那里在我面前受审么？
But Festus, wanting to gain favor with the Jews, answered Paul and said, Are you willing to go up to Jerusalem and be judged there before me concerning these
things?
25:10 保罗说，我是站在该撒的审判台前，这是我应当受审的地方；我向犹太人并没有行过什么不对的事，这也是你明明知道的。
And Paul said, I am standing before Caesar's judgment seat, where I ought to be judged. I have done nothing wrong to the Jews, as you also very well know.
25:11 我若行了不对的事，犯了什么该死的罪，就是死，我也不辞；但他们所告我的事，若都是虚的，就没有人可以把我交给他们。我上诉于该撒。
If therefore I am doing wrong and have committed anything worthy of death, I do not refuse to die; but if there is nothing to the things which these accuse me of,
no one can hand me over to them. I appeal to Caesar.
25:12 非斯都和议会商量了，就回答说，你既上诉于该撒，就要往该撒那里去。
Then when Festus had conferred with the council, he answered, To Caesar you have appealed; to Caesar you shall go.
25:13 过了些日子，亚基帕王和百尼基氏来到该撒利亚，问候非斯都。
Now when some days had passed, Agrippa the king and Bernice arrived at Caesarea and greeted Festus.
25:14 他们在那里住了多日，非斯都将保罗的事向王陈述说，这里有一个人，是腓力斯留下来的囚犯。
And while they were staying some additional days there, Festus laid before the king the matters regarding Paul, saying, There is a certain man who has been left
a prisoner by Felix,
25:15 我在耶路撒冷的时候，祭司长和犹太人的长老，将他的事禀报了我，求我定他的罪。
Concerning whom, when I was in Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews gave information and asked for a sentence against him.
25:16 我回答他们说，无论什么人，被告还没有和原告当面对质，未得机会分诉所告他的事，就先把他交给对方，这不是罗马人的规例。
To them I answered that it is not the custom with Romans to hand over any man before he who is accused meets the accusers face to face and has an
opportunity for a defense concerning the charge.
25:17 及至他们都来到这里，我就不耽延，第二天便坐在审判台上，吩咐把那人提上来。
So when they had come together here, I made no delay; on the next day, sitting on the judgment seat, I ordered the man to be brought.
25:18 原告站着告他，所告的并没有我所意料的恶事；
Concerning him the accusers stood and brought no charge of the evil things I was suspecting.
25:19 不过是和保罗争论一些他们自己敬鬼神的问题，又关于一位已经死了的耶稣，保罗断言祂是活着的。
But they had certain questions against him concerning their own religion and concerning a certain Jesus who had died, whom Paul affirmed to be alive.
25:20 关于这些争论，我心里作难，就问他愿不愿意上耶路撒冷去，在那里为这些事受审。
And being at a loss as to how there should be an inquiry concerning these things, I asked him if he was willing to go to Jerusalem and be judged there
concerning these things.
25:21 但保罗诉求把他留下，等待皇上审断，我就吩咐把他留下，等我解他到该撒那里去。
But when Paul appealed to be kept in custody for the decision of the Emperor, I ordered him to be kept in custody until I should send him up to Caesar.
25:22 亚基帕对非斯都说，我也愿意亲自听听这个人。非斯都说，明天你可以听他。
And Agrippa said to Festus, I myself also would like to hear the man. Tomorrow, said Festus, you shall hear him.
1061
25:23 第二天，亚基帕和百尼基大张威势而来，同着众千夫长和城里杰出的人，进了厅堂；非斯都吩咐一声，就有人将保罗提上来。
Therefore on the next day, when Agrippa and Bernice came with great pomp and entered into the hall of audience together with the commanders and prominent
men of the city, and when Festus had given the order, Paul was brought.
25:24 非斯都说，亚基帕王和同我们在座的诸位，你们看这人，为了他，耶路撒冷和这里全群的犹太人曾向我恳求，嚷着说，这个人不该再活着。
And Festus said, King Agrippa, and all you men who are present with us, you behold this man, concerning whom all the multitude of Jews have petitioned me,
both in Jerusalem and here, shouting that he ought not to live any longer.
25:25 但我查明他没有犯什么该死的罪，并且他自己既然要上诉于皇上，我就定意把他解去。
But I found that he had done nothing worthy of death; and since he himself appealed to the Emperor, I decided to send him.
25:26 论到这人，我没有确实的事可以呈奏主上；因此我带他到你们面前，也特意带他到你亚基帕王面前，为要在审问之后，有所陈奏。
Concerning him I have nothing definite to write to my lord; therefore I have brought him before you, and especially before you, King Agrippa, so that when the
examination has taken place, I may have something to write.
25:27 据我看来，解送囚犯，不指明他的罪状，是不合理的。
For it seems unreasonable to me, in sending a prisoner, not to also signify the charges against him.
使徒行传 Acts 第 26 章
26:1 亚基帕对保罗说，准你为自己申诉。于是保罗伸手分诉说，
And Agrippa said to Paul, You are permitted to speak for yourself. Then Paul stretched out his hand and made his defense:
26:2 亚基帕王阿，犹太人控告我的一切事，今日得在你面前分诉，乃为有幸；
Concerning all the things which I am accused of by the Jews, King Agrippa, I consider myself blessed that I am to make my defense before you today,
26:3 尤其你熟悉犹太人的一切规例，和他们的问题，所以求你耐心听我。
Especially since you are familiar with all the customs and questions among the Jews; therefore I beg you to listen to me patiently.
26:4 我从起初在本国的民中，并在耶路撒冷，自幼为人如何，犹太人都知道。
The manner of my life from youth, which from the beginning was among my own nation and in Jerusalem, all the Jews know,
26:5 他们若肯作见证，他们从起初早就晓得，我是按着我们宗教最严紧的教派，作了法利赛人。
Since they have previously known about me from the first, if they were willing to testify, that according to the strictest sect of our religion I lived as a Pharisee.
26:6 现在我站着受审，是因为盼望神向我们祖宗所应许的；
And now I stand here being judged for the hope of the promise made by God to our fathers,
26:7 这应许，我们十二个支派昼夜切切的事奉神，都盼望得着；王阿，我被犹太人控告，就是因这盼望。
To which our twelve tribes, earnestly serving night and day, hope to attain. Concerning this hope I am accused by the Jews, O king.
26:8 神既叫死人复活，你们为什么断为不可信的？
Why is it judged incredible among you if God raises the dead?
26:9 从前我自己也以为，应当多方攻击拿撒勒人耶稣的名。
Well then, I thought to myself that I ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus the Nazarene,
26:10 我在耶路撒冷就曾这样行了；既从祭司长得了权柄，我就把许多圣徒囚在监里，并且他们被杀，我也投票定罪。
Which also I did in Jerusalem; and I both shut up many of the saints in prison when I had received authority from the chief priests and cast a vote against them
when they were being done away with.
26:11 在各会堂，我屡次用刑，想强逼他们说亵渎的话，又格外恼恨他们，甚至追逼他们，直到外邦的城邑。
And in all the synagogues I punished them often and tried to compel them to blaspheme; and being exceedingly enraged at them, I persecuted them even as far
as foreign cities.
26:12 那时，我领了祭司长的权柄和使命，往大马色去。
Engaged in these things, I journeyed to Damascus with authority and a commission from the chief priests.
26:13 王阿，正午的时候，我在路上看见一道光，比日头还亮，从天上四面照着我和与我同行的人。
At midday, on the way, I saw, O king, a light from heaven beyond the brightness of the sun, shining around me and those who journeyed with me.
26:14 我们都仆倒在地上，我就听见有声音，用希伯来语向我说，扫罗，扫罗，你为什么逼迫我？你踢犁棒是难的。
And when we all fell to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew dialect, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting Me? It is hard for you to kick against
the goads.
26:15 我说，主阿，你是谁？主说，我就是你所逼迫的耶稣。
And I said, Who are You, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus, whom you persecute.
26:16 你起来站着，我向你显现，正是要选定你作执事和见证人，将你所看见我的事，和我将要显现给你的事，见证出来；
But rise up and stand on your feet; for I have appeared to you for this purpose, to appoint you as a minister and a witness both of the things in which you have
seen Me and of the things in which I will appear to you;
26:17 我要拯救你脱离百姓和外邦人。
Delivering you from the people and from the Gentiles, to whom I send you,
26:18 我差你到他们那里去，叫他们的眼睛得开，从黑暗转入光中，从撒但权下转向神，又因信入我，得蒙赦罪，并在一切圣别的人中得着基业。
To open their eyes, to turn them from darkness to light and from the authority of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and an inheritance
among those who have been sanctified by faith in Me.
26:19 亚基帕王阿，我故此没有违背那从天上来的异象，
Therefore, King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision,
26:20 先向在大马色、耶路撒冷和犹太全地的人，后向外邦人传报，要悔改转向神，行事与悔改相称。
But declared both to those in Damascus first and in Jerusalem and throughout all the country of Judea and to the Gentiles that they should repent and turn to God,
doing works worthy of repentance.
26:21 因这些事，犹太人在殿里拿住我，想要杀我。
Because of these things certain Jews seized me while I was in the temple and tried to slay me.
26:22 然而我蒙神的帮助，直到今日还得站住，向尊卑老幼作见证，所讲的，并不外乎众申言者和摩西所说，必要发生的事，
1062
Having therefore obtained the help which is from God, I have stood unto this day, testifying both to small and great, saying nothing apart from the things which
both the prophets and Moses have said would take place,
26:23 就是基督必须受害，并且首先从死人中复活，要将光传给百姓和外邦人。
That the Christ would suffer and that He, being the first to rise from the dead, would announce light both to the people and to the Gentiles.
26:24 保罗这样分诉，非斯都大声说，保罗，你癫狂了，你的学问太大，反叫你癫狂了。
And as he was saying these things in his defense, Festus said with a loud voice, You are insane, Paul. Much learning is driving you insane.
26:25 保罗说，非斯都大人，我不是癫狂，我说的乃是真实清醒的话。
But Paul said, I am not insane, most excellent Festus, but I am uttering words of truth and soberness.
26:26 王也晓得这些事，所以我向王放胆直言，我深信这些事没有一件向王是隐藏的，因为都不是在隐匿的地方作的。
For the king knows about these things, to whom also I speak freely, for I am persuaded that none of these things have escaped his notice; for this has not been
done in a corner.
26:27 亚基帕王阿，你信申言者么？我知道你是信的。
King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know that you believe.
26:28 亚基帕对保罗说，你想稍微一劝，便叫我作基督徒阿？
And Agrippa replied to Paul, By so little are you trying to persuade me to become a Christian?
26:29 保罗说，无论是少劝，是多劝，我向神所求的，不但是你一个人，就是今天一切听我的，都要像我一样，只是不要有这些锁炼。
And Paul said, I would to God that both by little and by much, not only you, but also all those who hear me today might become even such as I am, except for
these bonds.
26:30 于是王和总督，并百尼基与同坐的人都起来，
And the king rose up, and the governor and Bernice and those sitting with them;
26:31 退到一边，彼此谈论说，这人并没有犯什么该死该绑的罪。
And when they had withdrawn, they spoke to one another, saying, This man is doing nothing worthy of death or of bonds.
26:32 亚基帕对非斯都说，这人若没有上诉于该撒，就可以释放了。
And Agrippa said to Festus, This man could have been released, had he not appealed to Caesar.
使徒行传 Acts 第 27 章
27:1 他们既定规了，叫我们坐船往义大利去，就将保罗和别的囚犯，交给御营里一个名叫犹流的百夫长。
And when it was decided that we should sail to Italy, they delivered Paul and some other prisoners to a centurion named Julius of the Augustan cohort.
27:2 有一只亚大米田的船，要开往亚西亚沿岸一带地方，我们上去，船就开行，和我们同去的，还有马其顿的帖撒罗尼迦人亚里达古。
And going on board an Adramyttian ship which was about to sail to places along the coast of Asia, we put out to sea, Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica,
being with us.
27:3 第二天，我们在西顿靠了岸，犹流宽待保罗，准他往朋友那里去，受他们的照应。
And on the next day we landed at Sidon; and Julius, treating Paul kindly, allowed him to go to his friends to receive care.
27:4 从那里又开船，因为风不顺，就贴着居比路的背风岸航行。
And from there we put out to sea and sailed under the shelter of Cyprus because the winds were contrary.
27:5 过了基利家、旁非利亚一带的海，就到了吕家的每拉。
And having sailed across the open sea which lies off Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came down to Myra of Lycia.
27:6 在那里，百夫长找到一只亚力山大的船，要开往义大利去，便叫我们上了那船。
And there the centurion found an Alexandrian ship sailing for Italy, and he put us onto it.
27:7 一连多日，船行得慢，好不容易到了革尼土一带，因为被风拦阻，就贴着革哩底的背风岸，从撒摩尼对面行过。
And when we had sailed slowly for a considerable number of days and came with difficulty off Cnidus, the wind not permitting us to go on, we sailed under the
shelter of Crete, off Salmone.
27:8 我们沿岸航行，好不容易来到一个地方名叫佳澳，离那里不远，有拉西亚城。
And coasting along it with difficulty, we came to a certain place called Fair Havens, near which was the city of Lasea.
27:9 过了相当的时候，禁食的节期也过去了，行船又危险，保罗就劝众人说，
And when considerable time had passed and the voyage was now dangerous, and also because the Fast had already gone by, Paul advised them,
27:10 诸位，我看这次航行，不但货物和船只要受到伤害，大遭损失，就连我们的性命也难保。
Saying to them, Men, I perceive that the voyage is to be with damage and much loss, not only of the cargo and the ship, but also of our lives.
27:11 但百夫长宁愿信从船长和船主，却不信从保罗所说的。
But the centurion was persuaded by the navigator and the ship's owner rather than by the things that were being said by Paul.
27:12 且因这港口不适于过冬，大多数的人就主张从那里开船，或者能到非尼喀过冬。非尼喀是革哩底的一个港口，一面朝东北，一面朝东南。
And as the harbor was not suitable for wintering, the majority gave counsel to put out to sea from there, if somehow they might be able to reach Phoenix, a
harbor of Crete facing northeast and southeast, and spend the winter there.
27:13 这时微微起了南风，他们以为对目的地已有把握，就起锚，贴近革哩底航行。
And when a south wind blew gently, supposing that they had obtained their purpose, they weighed anchor and sailed along Crete close inshore.
27:14 但过了不久，一股名叫友拉革罗的狂风，从岛上扑下来，
But not long afterward there beat down from the island a hurricane wind called Euraquilo.
27:15 船被风抓住，敌不住风，我们就任风刮去，
And when the ship was caught by it and was not able to face the wind, we gave way to it and were driven along.
27:16 贴着一个小岛的背风岸奔航，那岛名叫高大，我们好不容易才收住小艇。
And running under the shelter of a certain little island called Clauda, we were hardly able to get control of the small boat.
27:17 既把小艇拉上来，就用缆绳捆绑船底；又恐怕撞在赛耳底沙滩上，就放下帆来，任船飘流。
And when they had hoisted it up, they used supports to undergird the ship. And because they feared that they might run aground on Syrtis, they lowered the gear
and so were driven along.
1063
27:18 我们被风浪颠簸得很厉害，第二天众人就把货物抛出去，
The next day, as we were being violently storm-tossed, they began to jettison the cargo;
27:19 到第三天，他们又亲手把船上的用具抛弃了。
And on the third day they threw the ship's gear overboard, even with their own hands.
27:20 太阳和星辰多日不显露，又有狂风大浪催逼，我们得救的指望就都绝了。
And when neither sun nor stars appeared for many days, and while no small storm was assailing us, from then on all hope that we might be saved was being
abandoned.
27:21 众人多日没有吃什么，保罗就站在他们中间，说，诸位，你们本该听从我，不离开革哩底，免得遭受这样的伤害和损失。
And when they had been a long time without food, Paul then stood in their midst and said, O men, you should have listened to me and not set sail from Crete
and gained this damage and loss.
27:22 现在我还劝你们放心振作，因为你们中间没有一个人会丧命，惟独失丧这船，
And now I advise you to cheer up, for there will be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship.
27:23 因我所属所事奉的神，祂的使者昨夜站在我旁边，说，
For this very night an angel of the God whose I am and whom I serve stood by me,
27:24 保罗，不要害怕，你必站在该撒面前，看哪，与你同船的人，神都赐给你了。
Saying, Do not fear, Paul; you must stand before Caesar. And behold, God has granted you all those who are sailing with you.
27:25 所以诸位，要放心振作，我信神怎样对我说，事情也要怎样成就。
Therefore, cheer up, men, for I believe God that it shall be so, even in the way in which it has been spoken to me.
27:26 只是我们必撞在一个岛上。
But we must run aground on a certain island.
27:27 到了第十四天夜里，我们在亚底亚海飘来飘去，约到半夜，水手以为渐近旱地，
But when the fourteenth night came, as we were being driven about in the Adriatic Sea, about the middle of the night the sailors suspected that some land was
approaching them.
27:28 就探探深浅，探得有二十噚；稍往前行，又探探深浅，探得有十五噚。
And they took soundings and found it to be twenty fathoms; and when they had gone a little farther, they sounded again and found it to be fifteen fathoms.
27:29 恐怕撞在石头上，就从船尾抛下四个锚，期待着天亮。
And fearing that we might run aground somewhere on rocky places, they threw four anchors from the stern and wished for day to come.
27:30 水手想要离船逃走，就把小艇放在海里，假作要从船头抛锚的样子。
And when the sailors sought to flee from the ship, having lowered the small boat into the sea under pretense of intending to lay out anchors from the bow,
27:31 保罗对百夫长和兵丁说，这些人若不留在船上，你们必不能得救。
Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers, Unless these men remain in the ship, you cannot be saved.
27:32 于是兵丁砍断小艇的绳子，任它飘去。
Then the soldiers cut away the ropes of the small boat and let it fall away.
27:33 从那时到天快亮，保罗一直劝众人用饭，说，你们悬望忍饿不吃什么，今天已是第十四天了。
And until day was about to come, Paul encouraged them all to take some food, saying, Today is the fourteenth day that you have continued watching without
food, taking nothing.
27:34 所以我劝你们用饭，这与你们的得救有关，因为你们各人连一根头发也不至于损坏。
Therefore I encourage you to take some food, for this is for your salvation; for not a hair from the head of any one of you shall perish.
27:35 保罗说了这话，就拿着饼，在众人面前感谢了神，然后擘开来吃。
And when he had said these things and had taken bread, he gave thanks to God before all; and he broke it and began to eat.
27:36 于是众人都放心振作，也就用饭了。
And all became cheerful, and they also took food.
27:37 我们在船上的，共有二百七十六个人。
Now we were in all two hundred and seventy-six souls in the ship.
27:38 他们吃饱了，就把麦子抛在海里，叫船轻一点。
And when they were satisfied with food, they began to lighten the ship, throwing out the wheat into the sea.
27:39 到了天亮，他们不认识那地方，只看见一个有岸可登的海湾，就商议能把船拢进去不能。
And when day came, they could not recognize the land, but they noticed a certain bay, which had a beach, into which they took counsel to drive the ship, if they
were able.
27:40 于是把锚丢弃在海里，同时松开舵绳，拉起前帆，顺着风向岸驶去。
And casting off the anchors, they left them in the sea, at the same time loosening the bands of the rudders; and hoisting the foresail to the blowing of the wind,
they held course for the beach.
27:41 但遇着两水夹流的地方，就把船搁了浅；船头胶着不动，船尾被浪猛力冲坏了。
But striking a sandbar with the sea on both sides, they ran the vessel aground; and the bow stuck fast and remained immovable, but the stern was broken up by
the violence of the waves.
27:42 兵丁的意思是要把囚犯杀了，恐怕有人泅水逃走；
And the counsel of the soldiers was that they should kill the prisoners, lest anyone swim away and escape;
27:43 但百夫长愿意叫保罗安全得救，不准他们任意而行，就吩咐会泅水的，跳下水去先上岸；
But the centurion, intending to bring Paul safely through, prevented them from their intention and ordered those who were able to swim to throw themselves
overboard first and get to the land,
27:44 其余的人，有的可以用木板，有的可以用船上的东西上岸。这样，众人都安全得救上了岸。
And the rest to follow, some on planks, and others on some of the things from the ship. And so it happened that all were brought safely through onto the land.
使徒行传 Acts 第 28 章
1064
28:1 我们既已安全得救，才认出那岛名叫米利大。
And having been brought safely through, we recognized then that the island was called Malta.
28:2 土人待我们有非常的情分，因为当时下着雨，天气又冷，就生火接待我们众人。
And the natives showed us uncommon kindness, for they kindled a fire and took us all in because of the rain coming on and because of the cold.
28:3 那时，保罗拾起一捆柴放在火上，有一条毒蛇因热出来，缠住他的手。
But when Paul had collected a bundle of sticks and put them on the fire, a viper came out because of the heat and fastened onto his hand.
28:4 土人看见那毒蛇悬在他手上，就彼此说，这人必是个凶手，虽然从海里安全得救，公理还不容他活着。
And when the natives saw the snake hanging from his hand, they said to one another, Undoubtedly this man is a murderer, whom, though he has been brought
safely out of the sea, Justice has not allowed to live.
28:5 保罗竟把那毒蛇甩在火里，并没有受伤。
However he shook off the snake into the fire and suffered no harm;
28:6 土人等着看他肿起来，或是忽然仆倒死了，但等了多时，见他无事，就转念说，他是个神。
And they expected that he would swell up or suddenly fall down dead. But when they had waited for a long time and beheld nothing unusual happening to him,
they changed their minds and said that he was a god.
28:7 那地附近有些田产是岛长的，这人名叫部百流，他接纳我们，亲切的款待了三天。
Now in the vicinity of that place were the lands of the leading man of the island, named Publius, who welcomed us and gave us hospitality three days in a
friendly way.
28:8 当时，部百流的父亲患热病和痢疾躺着，保罗进到他那里，祷告并按手在他身上，医好了他。
And the father of Publius was lying down sick with fever and dysentery. Paul went in to him, and having prayed and laid his hands on him, healed him.
28:9 这样一来，岛上其余的病人也来得了医治。
And when this happened, the rest also in the island who had sicknesses came to him and were healed.
28:10 他们又多方的尊敬我们，到了开船的时候，还给我们放上所需用的。
They also honored us with many honors; and as we put out to sea, they put on board the things for our needs.
28:11 过了三个月，我们上了一只亚力山大的船，这船以丢斯双子为记，是在那岛上过了冬的。
And after it had been three months, we put out to sea in an Alexandrian ship which had wintered in the island, with the twin sons of Zeus for its figurehead.
28:12 到了叙拉古，我们停泊三日。
And having landed at Syracuse, we remained three days.
28:13 又从那里绕行，来到利基翁。过了一天，起了南风，第二天就来到部丢利，
From there we sailed around and arrived at Rhegium. And after one day a south wind came on, and the second day we came to Puteoli,
28:14 在那里遇见弟兄们，恳求我们与他们同住了七天；这样，我们来到了罗马。
Where, having found brothers, we were urged to remain with them seven days. And thus we came to Rome.
28:15 那里的弟兄们，一听见我们的事，便来到亚比乌市和三馆迎接我们，保罗见了他们，就感谢神，壮起胆来。
And from there the brothers, having heard about the things concerning us, came as far as the Market of Appius and Three Inns to meet us; and when Paul saw
them, he thanked God and took courage.
28:16 当我们进了罗马，保罗蒙准和一个看守他的兵丁另住一处。
And when we entered into Rome, Paul was permitted to remain by himself with the soldier who was guarding him.
28:17 过了三天，保罗召集犹太人的首领来。等他们到齐了，就对他们说，诸位，弟兄们，我虽没有作什么事干犯本国的百姓，或祖宗的规例，却成了囚
犯，从耶路撒冷解到罗马人的手里。
And after three days he called together those who were the leading men of the Jews; and when they came together, he said to them, Men, brothers, though I
have done nothing against the people or the customs of our fathers, I have been delivered as a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans,
28:18 他们审问了我，就愿意释放我，因为在我身上并没有该定死罪的。
Who, having examined me, intended to release me, because there was not one cause of death in me.
28:19 无奈犹太人不服，我才被迫上诉于该撒，并非有什么事要控告我本国的百姓。
But when the Jews spoke against this, I was compelled to appeal to Caesar, not that I have anything to accuse my nation of.
28:20 为这缘故，我恳求你们来见面谈论；我原是为了以色列所盼望的，才戴上这锁炼。
For this cause therefore, I have entreated you to see me and speak with me; for on account of the hope of Israel I have this chain around me.
28:21 他们对他说，我们并没有接到从犹太来论你的信，弟兄中也没有人来报告，或说到你有什么不好。
And they said to him, We have neither received letters from Judea concerning you, nor have any of the brothers come and reported or spoken anything evil
concerning you.
28:22 但我们认为应该听听你怎样想，因为我们晓得，这个教派是到处遭反对的。
But we think it is fitting to hear from you what you think, for concerning this sect it is indeed known to us that it is spoken against everywhere.
28:23 他们和保罗约定了日子，就有更多的人到他的住所来，保罗从早到晚对他们讲解，郑重见证神的国，引摩西的律法和众申言者的书，以耶稣的事劝
服他们。
And once they had appointed a day for him, many came to him at his lodging, to whom he expounded these matters, solemnly testifying of the kingdom of God
and persuading them concerning Jesus from both the Law of Moses and the Prophets, from morning until evening.
28:24 他所说的，有的信服，有的不信。
And some were persuaded by the things which were said, but others did not believe.
28:25 他们彼此不合，就散了。散去以前，保罗说了一句话：圣灵藉申言者以赛亚，向你们祖宗所说的话，是不错的，祂说，
And when they disagreed with one another, they departed, Paul saying one word to them, Well has the Holy Spirit spoken through Isaiah the prophet to your
fathers,
28:26 “你去对这百姓说，你们听是要听见，却绝不领悟；看是要看见，却绝看不透；
Saying, "Go to this people and say, In hearing you shall hear and by no means understand, and seeing you will see and by no means perceive;
28:27 因为这百姓心蒙脂油，耳听不灵，眼睛闭着；恐怕他们眼睛看见，耳朵听见，心里领悟，回转过来，我就医治他们。”
For the heart of this people has become fat, and with their ears they have heard heavily, and their eyes they have closed, lest they perceive with their eyes and
hear with their ears and understand with their heart, and they turn around, and I will heal them.''
28:28 所以你们当知道，神这救恩如今已传给外邦人，他们也必听。
Let it be known to you therefore that this salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles; they will also hear it.
28:29 保罗说了这话，犹太人中大起争论，就都走了。
And when he had spoken these things, the Jews departed, having much dispute among themselves.
28:30 保罗在自己所租的房子里，住了足足两年，欢迎一切前来见他的人，
And he remained two whole years in his own rented dwelling and welcomed all those who came to him,
28:31 全然放胆宣扬神的国，并教导主耶稣基督的事，毫无阻碍。
Proclaiming the kingdom of God and teaching the things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness, unhindered.
1065
1066
45. 罗马书 Romans
罗马书 Romans 第 1 章
1:1 基督耶稣的奴仆保罗，蒙召的使徒，被分别出来归于神福音的；
Paul, a slave of Christ Jesus, a called apostle, separated unto the gospel of God,
1:2 这福音是神从前借着祂的众申言者，在圣经上所应许的，
Which He promised beforehand through His prophets in the holy Scriptures,
1:3 论到祂的儿子，我们的主耶稣基督：按肉体说，是从大卫后裔生的，
Concerning His Son, who came out of the seed of David according to the flesh,
1:4 按圣别的灵说，是从死人的复活，以大能标出为神的儿子；
Who was designated the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of holiness out of the resurrection of the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord;
1:5 我们借着祂，领受了恩典和使徒的职分，为祂的名在万国中使人顺从信仰，
Through whom we have received grace and apostleship unto the obedience of faith among all the Gentiles on behalf of His name,
1:6 其中也有你们这蒙召属耶稣基督的人；
Among whom you also are the called ones of Jesus Christ;
1:7 写信给一切在罗马，为神所爱，蒙召的圣徒。愿恩典与平安，从神我们的父，并主耶稣基督归与你们。
To all who are in Rome, beloved of God, the called saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1:8 首先，我借着耶稣基督，为你们众人感谢我的神，因你们的信心传遍了全世界。
First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all because your faith is proclaimed throughout the whole world.
1:9 我在祂儿子的福音上，在我灵里所事奉的神，可以见证我怎样在祷告中，常常不住的提到你们，
For God is my witness, whom I serve in my spirit in the gospel of His Son, how unceasingly I make mention of you always in my prayers,
1:10 祈求神，或许在祂的旨意中，终能顺利的往你们那里去。
Beseeching if by any means now at last I may be prospered in the will of God to come to you.
1:11 因为我切切的想见你们，要把些属灵的恩赐分给你们，使你们得以坚固；
For I long to see you that I may impart to you some spiritual gift so that you may be established;
1:12 这样，我在你们中间，因你们与我彼此的信心，就可以同得鼓励。
That is, that I with you may be encouraged among you through the faith which is in one another, both yours and mine.
1:13 弟兄们，我不愿意你们不知道，我屡次定意往你们那里去，要在你们中间也得些果子，如同在其余的外邦人中一样，只是到如今仍有拦阻。
And I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, that often I purposed to come to you (yet was hindered until the present), that I might have some fruit among you
also, even as among the rest of the Gentiles.
1:14 无论对希利尼人还是对化外人，无论对智慧人还是对愚拙人，我都是欠债的。
I am debtor both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to wise and to foolish;
1:15 所以在我，我已经预备好，要将福音也传给你们在罗马的人。
So, for my part, I am ready to announce the gospel to you also who are in Rome.
1:16 我不以福音为耻；这福音本是神的大能，要救一切信的人，先是犹太人，后是希利尼人。
For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one who believes, both to Jew first and to Greek.
1:17 因为神的义在这福音上，本于信显示与信，如经上所记：“义人必本于信得生并活着。”
For the righteousness of God is revealed in it out of faith to faith, as it is written, "But the righteous shall have life and live by faith.''
1:18 原来神的忿怒，从天上显示在那些以不义抑制真理之人一切的不虔不义上。
For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven upon all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold down the truth in unrighteousness,
1:19 因为神的事情，人所能知道的，原显明在人里面，因为神已经给他们显明了。
Because that which is known of God is manifest within them, for God manifested it to them.
1:20 自从创造世界以来，神那看不见永远的大能，和神性的特征，是人所洞见的，乃是借着受造之物，给人晓得的，叫人无法推诿；
For the invisible things of Him, both His eternal power and divine characteristics, have been clearly seen since the creation of the world, being perceived by the
things made, so that they would be without excuse;
1:21 因为他们虽然知道神，却不当作神荣耀祂，也不感谢祂，反倒在他们的推想上变为虚妄，他们无知的心就昏暗了。
Because though they knew God, they did not glorify Him as God or thank Him, but rather became vain in their reasonings, and their heart, lacking understanding,
was darkened.
1:22 他们自称是智慧的，反成了愚拙的，
Professing to be wise, they became fools
1:23 将不能朽坏之神的荣耀，改换为必朽坏的人、飞禽、走兽和爬物之像的样式。
And changed the glory of the incorruptible God into the likeness of an image of corruptible man and of birds and four-footed animals and reptiles.
1:24 所以神任凭他们逞着心里的情欲，陷入污秽中，以致彼此玷辱自己的身体。
Therefore God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to uncleanness, so that they dishonor their bodies among themselves,
1:25 他们将神的真实换为虚谎，去敬拜事奉受造之物，不敬拜事奉那创造者；祂乃是当受颂赞的，直到永远。阿们。
Who exchanged the truth of God for the lie, and worshipped and served the creation rather than the Creator, who is blessed forever. Amen.
1:26 因此，神任凭他们陷入可耻的情欲：他们的女人把顺性的用处换为逆性的用处；
Therefore God gave them up to passions of dishonor; for their females exchanged the natural use for that which is contrary to nature;
1:27 男人也是如此，弃了女人顺性的用处，欲火中烧，彼此贪恋，男和男行可耻的事，就在自己身上受这妄为当得的报应。
And likewise also the males, leaving the natural use of the female, burned in their craving toward one another, males with males committing unseemliness and
fully receiving in themselves the retribution of their error which was due.
1:28 他们既然不以认识神为美，神就任凭他们存可弃绝的心思，行那些不合宜的事，
And even as they did not approve of holding God in their full knowledge, God gave them up to a disapproved mind, to do the things which are not fitting,
1:29 充满了各样不义、邪恶、贪婪、恶毒，满了嫉妒、凶杀、争竞、诡诈、毒恨；
Being filled with all unrighteousness, wickedness, covetousness, malice; full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malignity;
1067
1:30 又是谗毁人的，背后说人的，憎恨神的，侮慢人的，狂傲的，自夸的，捏造恶事的，违背父母的，
Whisperers, slanderers, hateful to God, insolent, arrogant, boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents,
1:31 无知的，背约的，无亲情的，无怜悯的。
Senseless, faithless, affectionless, merciless;
1:32 他们虽明知神公义的判决，行这样事的人是当死的，然而他们不但自己去行，还与那些行这样事的人同欢，以他们为乐。
Who, though fully knowing the righteous judgment of God, that those who practice such things are worthy of death, not only do them, but also have fellow delight
in those who practice them.
罗马书 Romans 第 2 章
2:1 人哪，每一个审判人的！你是无法推诿的，你在什么事上审判人，就在什么事上定自己的罪；因你这审判人的，也行同样的事。
Therefore you are without excuse, O every man who judges, for in what you judge another you condemn yourself; for you who judge practice the same things.
2:2 我们知道行这样事的人，神必按真理审判他。
But we know that the judgment of God is according to truth upon those who practice such things.
2:3 人哪，你审判行这样事的人，自己却照样行，你以为能逃脱神的审判么？
And do you consider this, O man, who judge those who practice such things and do the same yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God?
2:4 还是你藐视祂丰富的恩慈、宽容与恒忍，不晓得神的恩慈是领你悔改？
Or do you despise the riches of His kindness and forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing that God's kindness is leading you to repentance?
2:5 你竟任着你刚硬不悔改的心，为自己在神动怒并显示祂公义审判的日子，积蓄忿怒。
But, according to your hardness and your unrepentant heart, you are storing up for yourself wrath in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of
God,
2:6 祂必照各人的行为报应各人：
Who will render to each according to his works:
2:7 凡恒心行善，寻求荣耀、尊贵和不朽坏的，就以永远的生命报应他们；
To those who by endurance in good work seek glory and honor and incorruptibility, life eternal;
2:8 惟有私图好争，不信从真理，反信从不义的，就以忿怒、恼恨报应他们；
But to those who are selfishly contentious and disobedient to the truth and obey unrighteousness, wrath and fury.
2:9 将患难、困苦加给一切作恶的人，先是犹太人，后是希利尼人；
Tribulation and anguish upon every soul of man who commits evil, both of Jew first and of Greek;
2:10 却将荣耀、尊贵与平安加给一切行善的人，先是犹太人，后是希利尼人。
But glory and honor and peace to everyone who works good, both to Jew first and to Greek.
2:11 因为神并不偏待人。
For there is no respect of persons with God.
2:12 凡在律法以外犯了罪的，也必在律法以外灭亡；凡在律法以下犯了罪的，必按律法受审判，
For as many as have sinned without the law shall also perish without the law; and as many as have sinned under the law shall be judged by the law
2:13 （原来在神面前，不是听律法的为义，乃是行律法的称义。
(For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified.
2:14 没有律法的外邦人，若顺着本性行律法上的事，他们虽然没有律法，自己就是自己的律法：
For when Gentiles, who have no law, do by nature the things of the law, these, though they have no law, are a law to themselves,
2:15 他们显出那写在他们心里律法的功用，他们的良心同作见证，并且他们的思想互相控告或者也辩护。）
Who show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness with it and their reasonings, one with the other, accusing or even excusing
them.)
2:16 就是在神藉耶稣基督，照着我的福音，审判人隐秘事的日子。
In the day when God judges the secrets of men according to my gospel through Jesus Christ.
2:17 你名为犹太人，又倚靠律法，且指着神夸口，
But if you bear the name of Jew, and rest upon the law, and boast in God,
2:18 既从律法受了教导，就认识神的旨意，也能鉴赏那更美的事，
And know the will, and approve the things that are more excellent, being instructed out of the law,
2:19 又深信自己是给瞎子领路的，是黑暗中之人的光，
And have confidence that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those in darkness,
2:20 是愚昧人的管教者，是幼稚人的教师，在律法上有知识和真理的规模；
One who disciplines the foolish, a teacher of babes, having the proper form of the knowledge and truth in the law;
2:21 这样，你这教导别人的，不教导自己么？你这传讲不可偷窃的，自己偷窃么？
You therefore who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach not to steal, do you steal?
2:22 你这说不可奸淫的，自己奸淫么？你这憎恶偶像的，自己抢劫庙宇么？
You who say not to commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob their temples?
2:23 你指着律法夸口，自己却犯律法玷辱神么？
You who boast in the law, do you by transgression of the law dishonor God?
2:24 如经上所记：“神的名在外邦人中，因你们受了亵渎。”
For "the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you,'' even as it is written.
2:25 你若行律法，割礼固然于你有益；但你若是犯律法的，你的割礼就不算割礼。
For circumcision profits if you practice the law; but if you are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision.
2:26 所以那未受割礼的，若遵守律法的典章，他虽然未受割礼，岂不算是受割礼的么？
If therefore the uncircumcision keeps the ordinances of the law, will not his uncircumcision be accounted as circumcision?
2:27 而且那本来未受割礼的，若全守律法，就要审判你这有字句和割礼却犯律法的人。
1068
And the uncircumcision by nature, if he fulfills the law, will judge you who through the letter and circumcision are a transgressor of the law.
2:28 因为外表上作犹太人的，并不是犹太人；外表上肉体的割礼，也不是割礼。
For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly; neither is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh.
2:29 惟有在内里作的，才是犹太人；割礼也是心里的，在于灵，不在于字句。这人的称赞，不是从人来的，乃是从神来的。
But he is a Jew who is one inwardly; and circumcision is of the heart, in spirit, not in letter, whose praise is not from men, but from God.
罗马书 Romans 第 3 章
3:1 这样，犹太人有什么长处？割礼有什么益处？
What then is the advantage of the Jew? Or what is the profit of circumcision?
3:2 各方面都很多。第一，是神的谕言信托了他们。
Much in every way. First, that they were entrusted with the oracles of God.
3:3 即便有不信的，这有何妨？难道他们的不信，就废掉神的信么？
For what if some disbelieved? Shall their unbelief annul the faithfulness of God?
3:4 绝对不能！神总是真实的，人都是虚谎的，如经上所记：“好叫你说话的时候，显为公义；被人审判的时候，可以得胜。”
Absolutely not! But let God be true and every man a liar, as it is written, "That You may be declared righteous in Your words and may overcome when You are
judged.''
3:5 我且照着人的常话说，我们的不义若显出神的义来，我们要说什么？神降怒，难道是祂不义么？
But if our unrighteousness commends the righteousness of God, what shall we say? Is the God who inflicts wrath unrighteous? I speak according to man.
3:6 绝对不是！若是这样，神怎能审判世界？
Absolutely not! Otherwise how shall God judge the world?
3:7 但神的真实，若因我的虚谎，越发洋溢出祂的荣耀，为什么我还受审判像罪人一样？
But if the truthfulness of God has abounded in my lie unto His glory, why still am I also being judged as a sinner?
3:8 为什么不说，让我们作恶以成善？这是我们所受的毁谤，也是有些人硬说我们有这话。这等人受审判是该当的。
And why not say (as we are slanderously charged and as some affirm that we say), Let us do evil that good may come? whose judgment is just.
3:9 这却怎么样？我们比他们强么？绝对没有！因我们已经指控，犹太人和希利尼人都在罪之下，
What then? Are we better? Not at all! For we have previously charged both Jews and Greeks that they are all under sin,
3:10 就如经上所记：“没有义人，连一个也没有，
Even as it is written, "There is none righteous, not even one;
3:11 没有明白的，没有寻求神的；
There is none who understands, there is none who seeks out God.
3:12 都是偏离正路，一同变为无用；没有行善的，连一个也没有。
All have turned aside; together they have become useless; there is none who does good; there is not so much as one.
3:13 他们的喉咙是敞开的坟墓，他们用舌头弄诡诈，嘴唇里有虺蛇的毒气，
Their throat is an opened grave; with their tongues they practiced deceit; the poison of asps is under their lips;
3:14 他们满口是咒骂苦毒；
Whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness.
3:15 杀人流血，他们的脚飞跑，
Swift are their feet to shed blood,
3:16 在他们所经过的路上，遍行毁坏和祸害，
Destruction and misery are in their ways,
3:17 平安的路，他们未曾知道；
And the way of peace they have not known.
3:18 他们眼中不怕神。”
There is no fear of God before their eyes.''
3:19 我们晓得律法上的话，都是对律法以下之人说的，好堵住各人的口，叫普世的人都伏在神的审判之下。
Now we know that whatever things the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped and all the world may fall under
the judgment of God;
3:20 因为凡属肉体的人，都不能本于行律法在神面前得称义，因为律法本是叫人知罪。
Because out of the works of the law no flesh shall be justified before Him; for through the law is the clear knowledge of sin.
3:21 但如今神的义在律法以外已经显明出来，有律法和申言者为证，
But now, apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, witness being borne to it by the Law and the Prophets;
3:22 就是神的义，借着信耶稣基督，归与一切信的人，并没有分别。
Even the righteousness of God through the faith of Jesus Christ to all those who believe, for there is no distinction;
3:23 因为众人都犯了罪，亏缺了神的荣耀，
For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God,
3:24 但因神的恩典，借着在基督耶稣里的救赎，就白白的得称义。
Being justified freely by His grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus;
3:25 神摆出基督耶稣作平息处，是凭着祂的血，借着人的信，为要在神以宽容越过人先时所犯的罪上，显示祂的义；
Whom God set forth as a propitiation place through faith in His blood, for the demonstrating of His righteousness, in that in His forbearance God passed over the
sins that had previously occurred,
3:26 为着在今时显示祂的义，使祂能是义的，也能称那以信耶稣为本的人为义。
With a view to the demonstrating of His righteousness in the present time, so that He might be righteous and the One who justifies him who is of the faith of Jesus.
3:27 既是这样，那里有可夸的？完全没有了！借着什么律？借着行的律么？不是，乃是借着信的律。
Where then is boasting? It is excluded. Through what kind of law? That of works? No, but through the law of faith.
1069
3:28 因为我们算定了，人得称义是借着信，与行律法无关。
For we account that a man is justified by faith apart from the works of the law.
3:29 难道神只是犹太人的神么？不也是外邦人的么？是的，也是外邦人的；
Or is He the God of the Jews only? Is He not of the Gentiles also? Yes, of the Gentiles also,
3:30 神既是一位，祂就要本于信称那受割礼的为义，也要借着信称那未受割礼的为义。
If indeed God is one, who will justify the circumcision out of faith and the uncircumcision through faith.
3:31 这样，我们借着信使律法失效么？绝对不是！反而坚固了律法。
Do we then make the law of no effect through faith? Absolutely not! Rather, we establish the law.
罗马书 Romans 第 4 章
4:1 这样，我们可说我们的祖宗亚伯拉罕照着肉体得了什么？
What then shall we say that Abraham our forefather according to the flesh has found?
4:2 倘若亚伯拉罕是本于行为得称义，就有可夸的，只是在神面前并无可夸。
For if Abraham was justified out of works, he has something to boast in, but not before God.
4:3 原来经上说什么？说，“亚伯拉罕信神，这就算为他的义。”
For what does the Scripture say? "And Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him as righteousness.''
4:4 作工的得工价，不是照着恩典，乃是照着所该得者算的。
Now to the one who works, his wages are not accounted according to grace, but according to what is due.
4:5 惟有不作工，只信靠那称不虔者为义之神的，他的信就算为他的义。
But to the one who does not work, but believes on Him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is accounted as righteousness.
4:6 正如大卫也称那在行为以外，蒙神算为义的人为有福的：
Even as David also speaks blessing on the man to whom God accounts righteousness apart from works:
4:7 “不法得赦免，罪得遮盖的人，是有福的。
"Blessed are they whose lawlessnesses have been forgiven, and whose sins have been covered over.
4:8 主绝不算为有罪的人，是有福的。”
Blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall by no means account sin.''
4:9 如此，这称为有福的福是单加给受割礼的人，还是也加给未受割礼的人？因我们说，亚伯拉罕的信，就算为他的义，
Is this blessing then upon the circumcision only, or also upon the uncircumcision? For we say, Faith was accounted to Abraham as righteousness.
4:10 是怎么算的？是在他受割礼的时候，还是在他未受割礼的时候？不是在受割礼的时候，乃是在未受割礼的时候。
How then was it accounted? While he was in circumcision or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision.
4:11 并且他受了割礼的记号，作他未受割礼时那信之义的印记，叫他作一切未受割礼而信之人的父，使他们也算为义；
And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had while in uncircumcision, that he might be the father of all those in
uncircumcision who believe, that righteousness might be accounted to them also,
4:12 又作受割礼之人的父，就是那些不但受割礼，并且照我们祖宗亚伯拉罕，未受割礼时之信的脚踪而行的人。
And the father of circumcision to those who not only are of the circumcision, but who also walk in the steps of that faith of our father Abraham, which he had in
uncircumcision.
4:13 因为神应许亚伯拉罕，或他的后裔，必得承受世界，不是借着律法，乃是借着信的义。
For it was not through the law that the promise was made to Abraham or to his seed that he would be the heir of the world, but through the righteousness of faith.
4:14 若是本于律法的，才得为后嗣，信就成了虚空，应许也就失效了。
For if those of the law are heirs, faith has been made void and the promise has been annulled;
4:15 因为律法是惹动忿怒的；那里没有律法，那里就没有过犯。
For the law works out wrath; but where there is no law, neither is there transgression.
4:16 所以人得为后嗣是本于信，为要照着恩，使应许定然归给一切后裔，不但归给那本于律法的，也归给那本于亚伯拉罕之信的。
Therefore the inheritance is out of faith that it might be according to grace, so that the promise may be certain to all the seed, not to that which is of the law only,
but also to that which is of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all
4:17 亚伯拉罕在他所信那叫死人复活，又称无为有的神面前，是我们众人的父，如经上所记：“我已经立你作多国的父。”
(As it is written, "I have appointed you a father of many nations'') in the sight of God whom he believed, who gives life to the dead and calls the things not being
as being.
4:18 他在无可指望的时候，仍靠指望而信，就得以照先前所说，“你的后裔将要如此”的话，作多国的父。
He beyond hope believed in hope in order that he might become the father of many nations, according to that which was spoken, "So shall your seed be.''
4:19 他将近百岁的时候，虽然想到自己的身体如同已死，撒拉的生育也已断绝，他的信还是不软弱，
And not weakening in his faith, he considered his own body as already dead, being about a hundred years old, as well as the deadening of Sarah's womb;
4:20 总没有因不信而疑惑神的应许，反倒因信得着加力，将荣耀归与神，
But with regard to the promise of God, he did not doubt in unbelief, but was empowered by faith, giving glory to God
4:21 且满心确信，神所应许的，祂也必能作成；
And being fully persuaded that what He had promised He was able also to do.
4:22 所以这就算为他的义。
Therefore also it was accounted to him as righteousness.
4:23 算为他的义这句话，不是单为他写的，
Now it was not written for his sake only that it was accounted to him,
4:24 也是为我们将来得算为义的人，就是为我们这些信靠那使我们的主耶稣从死人中复活者的人写的。
But for ours also to whom it is to be accounted, who believe on Him who has raised Jesus our Lord from the dead,
4:25 耶稣被交给人是为我们的过犯，复活是为我们的称义。
Who was delivered for our offenses and was raised for our justification.
1070
罗马书 Romans 第 5 章
5:1 所以，我们既本于信得称义，就借着我们的主耶稣基督，对神有了和平。
Therefore having been justified out of faith, we have peace toward God through our Lord Jesus Christ,
5:2 我们又借着祂，因信得进入现在所站的这恩典中，并且因盼望神的荣耀而夸耀。
Through whom also we have obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand and boast because of the hope of the glory of God.
5:3 不但如此，就是在患难中，我们也是夸耀，因为知道患难生忍耐，
And not only so, but we also boast in our tribulations, knowing that tribulation produces endurance;
5:4 忍耐生老练，老练生盼望，
And endurance, approvedness; and approvedness, hope;
5:5 盼望不至于蒙羞；因为神的爱已经借着所赐给我们的圣灵，浇灌在我们心里。
And hope does not put us to shame, because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us.
5:6 因我们还软弱的时候，基督就照所定的时期为不虔者死了。
For while we were yet weak, in due time Christ died for the ungodly.
5:7 为义人死，是少有的；为仁人死，或者有敢作的；
For scarcely for a righteous man will anyone die, though perhaps for the good man someone would even dare to die.
5:8 惟有基督在我们还作罪人的时候，为我们死，神就在此将祂自己的爱向我们显明了。
But God commends His own love to us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.
5:9 现在我们既因祂的血得称义，就更要借着祂得救脱离忿怒。
Much more then, having now been justified in His blood, we will be saved through Him from the wrath.
5:10 因为我们作仇敌的时候，且借着神儿子的死得与神和好，既已和好，就更要在祂的生命里得救了。
For if we, being enemies, were reconciled to God through the death of His Son, much more we will be saved in His life, having been reconciled,
5:11 不但如此，我们现今既借着我们的主耶稣基督，得与神和好，也就要借着祂，在神里面夸耀着，在祂的生命里得救了。
And not only so, but also boasting in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation.
5:12 这就如罪是借着一人入了世界，死又是借着罪来的，于是死就遍及众人，因为众人都犯了罪。
Therefore just as through one man sin entered into the world, and through sin, death; and thus death passed on to all men because all have sinned --
5:13 没有律法之先，罪已经在世上；但没有律法，罪也不算在账上。
For until the law sin was in the world, but sin is not charged to one's account when there is no law.
5:14 然而从亚当到摩西，死就作了王，连那些不照亚当过犯样式犯罪的，也在它的权下；亚当乃是那以后要来者的预像。
But death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those who had not sinned after the likeness of Adam's transgression, who is a type of Him who was to
come.
5:15 只是过犯不如恩赐；若因一人的过犯，多人都死了，神的恩典，与耶稣基督一人恩典中白白的恩赐，就更加洋溢的临到多人。
But it is not that as the offense was, so also the gracious gift is; for if by the offense of the one the many died, much more the grace of God and the free gift in
grace of the one man Jesus Christ have abounded to the many.
5:16 并且一人犯罪的结果，也不如白白的恩赐；因为审判是由于一次过犯而定罪，恩赐乃是由于许多过犯而称义。
And it is not that as through one who sinned, so also the free gift is; for the judgment was out of one offense unto condemnation, but the gracious gift is out of
many offenses unto justification.
5:17 若因一人的过犯，死就借着这一人作了王，那些受洋溢之恩，并洋溢之义恩赐的，就更要借着耶稣基督一人，在生命中作王了。
For if by the offense of the one death reigned through the one, much more those who receive the abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness will reign in
life through the One, Jesus Christ.
5:18 如此说来，借着一次的过犯，众人都被定罪，照样，借着一次的义行，众人也都被称义得生命了。
So then as it was through one offense unto condemnation to all men, so also it was through one righteous act unto justification of life to all men.
5:19 借着一人的悖逆，多人构成了罪人，照样，借着一人的顺从，多人也要构成义的了。
For just as through the disobedience of one man the many were constituted sinners, so also through the obedience of the One the many will be constituted
righteous.
5:20 律法插进来，是叫过犯增多，只是罪在那里增多，恩典就更洋溢了，
And the law entered in alongside that the offense might abound; but where sin abounded, grace has super-abounded,
5:21 使罪怎样在死中作王，恩典也照样借着义作王，叫人借着我们的主耶稣基督得永远的生命。
In order that just as sin reigned in death, so also grace might reign through righteousness unto eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.
罗马书 Romans 第 6 章
6:1 这样，我们可说什么？我们可以仍留在罪中，叫恩典增多么？
What then shall we say? Should we continue in sin that grace may abound?
6:2 绝对不可！我们这向罪死了的人，岂可仍在罪中活着？
Absolutely not! We who have died to sin, how shall we still live in it?
6:3 岂不知我们这浸入基督耶稣的人，是浸入祂的死么？
Or are you ignorant that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into His death?
6:4 所以我们借着浸入死，和祂一同埋葬，好叫我们在生命的新样中生活行动，像基督借着父的荣耀，从死人中复活一样。
We have been buried therefore with Him through baptism into His death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so
also we might walk in newness of life.
6:5 我们若在祂死的样式里与祂联合生长，也必要在祂复活的样式里与祂联合生长；
For if we have grown together with Him in the likeness of His death, indeed we will also be in the likeness of His resurrection,
1071
6:6 知道我们的旧人已经与祂同钉十字架，使罪的身体失效，叫我们不再作罪的奴仆，
Knowing this, that our old man has been crucified with Him in order that the body of sin might be annulled, that we should no longer serve sin as slaves;
6:7 因为已死的人，是已经从罪开释了。
For he who has died is justified from sin.
6:8 我们若与基督同死，就信也必与祂同活，
Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with Him,
6:9 知道基督既从死人中复活，就不再死，死也不再作主管辖祂了。
Knowing that Christ, having been raised from the dead, dies no more; death lords it over Him no more.
6:10 因为祂死，是一次永远的向罪死了；祂活，是向神活着。
For the death which He died, He died to sin once for all; but the life which He lives, He lives to God.
6:11 这样，你们在基督耶稣里，向罪也当算自己是死的，向神却当算自己是活的。
So also you, reckon yourselves to be dead to sin, but living to God in Christ Jesus.
6:12 所以不要让罪在你们必死的身体里作王，使你们顺从身体的私欲，
Do not let sin therefore reign in your mortal body so that you obey the body's lusts;
6:13 也不要将你们的肢体献给罪作不义的兵器；倒要像从死人中活过来的人，将自己献给神，并将你们的肢体献给神作义的兵器。
Neither present your members as weapons of unrighteousness to sin, but present yourselves to God as alive from the dead, and your members as weapons of
righteousness to God.
6:14 罪必不能作主管辖你们，因你们不在律法之下，乃在恩典之下。
For sin will not lord it over you, for you are not under the law but under grace.
6:15 这却怎么样？因我们不在律法之下，乃在恩典之下，就可以犯罪么？绝对不可！
What then? Should we sin, because we are not under the law but under grace? Absolutely not!
6:16 岂不晓得你们将自己献给谁作奴仆，以至于顺从，就作了你们所顺从者的奴仆么？或作罪的奴仆，以至于死，或作顺从的奴仆，以至于义。
Do you not know that to whom you present yourselves as slaves for obedience, his slaves you are whom you obey, whether of sin unto death or of obedience
unto righteousness?
6:17 感谢神，你们从前虽然作罪的奴仆，现今却从心里顺从了你们被交于其中之教训的规模。
But thanks be to God that though you were slaves of sin, you have obeyed from the heart the form of teaching into which you were delivered.
6:18 你们既从罪里得了释放，就作了义的奴仆。
And having been freed from sin, you were enslaved to righteousness.
6:19 我因你们肉体的软弱，就照着人的常情说，你们从前怎样将肢体献给不洁不法作奴仆，以至于不法，现今也要照样将肢体献给义作奴仆，以至于圣别。
I speak in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh. For just as you presented your members as slaves to uncleanness and lawlessness unto
lawlessness, so now present your members as slaves to righteousness unto sanctification.
6:20 因为你们作罪之奴仆的时候，就不受义的约束。
For when you were slaves of sin, you were free with regard to righteousness.
6:21 那时你们有什么果子？不过是你们现今所看为羞耻的事，那些事的结局就是死。
What fruit then did you have at that time? Things of which you are now ashamed, for the end of those things is death.
6:22 但现今你们既从罪里得了释放，作了神的奴仆，就有圣别的果子，结局就是永远的生命。
But now, having been freed from sin and enslaved to God, you have your fruit unto sanctification, and the end, eternal life.
6:23 因为罪的工价乃是死，惟有神的恩赐，在我们的主基督耶稣里，乃是永远的生命。
For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.
罗马书 Romans 第 7 章
7:1 弟兄们，我现在对明白律法的人说，你们岂不知律法作主管辖人，是在他活着的时候么？
Or are you ignorant, brothers (for I speak to those who know the law), that the law lords it over the man as long as he lives?
7:2 女人有了丈夫，丈夫还活着，就受律法约束，归与丈夫；丈夫若死了，就脱离了丈夫的律法。
For the married woman is bound by the law to her husband while he is living; but if the husband dies, she is discharged from the law regarding the husband.
7:3 所以，丈夫活着，她若归与别的男人，便叫淫妇；丈夫若死了，她就脱离了那律法，虽然归与别的男人，也不是淫妇。
So then if, while the husband is living, she is joined to another man, she will be called an adulteress; but if the husband dies, she is free from the law, so that she
is not an adulteress, though she is joined to another man.
7:4 我的弟兄们，这样说来，你们借着基督的身体，向着律法也已经是死的了，叫你们归与别人，就是归与那从死人中复活的，使我们结果子给神。
So then, my brothers, you also have been made dead to the law through the body of Christ so that you might be joined to another, to Him who has been raised
from the dead, that we might bear fruit to God.
7:5 因为我们在肉体中的时候，那借着律法活动的罪欲，就在我们肢体中发动，以致结果子给死。
For when we were in the flesh, the passions for sins, which acted through the law, operated in our members to bear fruit to death.
7:6 但我们既然在捆我们的律法上死了，现今就脱离了律法，叫我们在灵的新样里服事，不在字句的旧样里。
But now we have been discharged from the law, having died to that in which we were held, so that we serve in newness of spirit and not in oldness of letter.
7:7 这样，我们可说什么？律法是罪么？绝对不是！只是非藉律法，我就不知何为罪；非律法说，“不可起贪心，”我就不知何为贪心。
What then shall we say? Is the law sin? Absolutely not! But I did not know sin except through the law; for neither did I know coveting, except the law had said,
"You shall not covet.''
7:8 然而罪借着诫命得着机会，叫诸般的贪心在我里面发动，因为没有律法，罪是死的。
But sin, seizing the opportunity through the commandment, worked out in me coveting of every kind; for without the law sin is dead.
7:9 我以前没有律法是活着的，但是诫命来到，罪又活了，我就死了。
And I was alive without the law once; but when the commandment came, sin revived and I died.
7:10 那本来叫人得生命的诫命，反倒成了叫我死的；
And the commandment, which was unto life, this very commandment was found to me to be unto death.
1072
7:11 因为罪借着诫命得着机会，诱骗了我，并且借着诫命杀了我。
For sin, seizing the opportunity through the commandment, deceived me and through it killed me.
7:12 这样看来，律法是圣的，诫命也是圣的、义的并善的。
So then the law is holy, and the commandment holy and righteous and good.
7:13 这样，那善的是叫我死么？绝对不是！然而罪为要显出真是罪，就借着那善的叫我死，使罪借着诫命成为极其罪恶的。
Did then that which is good become death to me? Absolutely not! But sin did, that it might be shown to be sin by working out death in me through that which is
good, that sin through the commandment might become exceedingly sinful.
7:14 我们原晓得律法是属灵的，但我是属肉的，是已经卖给罪了。
For we know that the law is spiritual; but I am fleshy, sold under sin.
7:15 因为我所行出来的，我不认可；我所愿意的，我并不作；我所恨恶的，我倒去作。
For what I work out, I do not acknowledge; for what I will, this I do not practice; but what I hate, this I do.
7:16 若我所作的，是我所不愿意的，我就同意律法是善的。
But if what I do not will, this I do, I agree with the law that it is good.
7:17 其实，不是我行出来的，乃是住在我里面的罪行出来的。
Now then it is no longer I that work it out but sin that dwells in me.
7:18 我知道住在我里面，就是我肉体之中，并没有善，因为立志为善由得我，只是行出来由不得我。
For I know that in me, that is, in my flesh, nothing good dwells; for to will is present with me, but to work out the good is not.
7:19 因为我所愿意的善，我反不作；我所不愿意的恶，我倒去作。
For I do not do the good which I will; but the evil which I do not will, this I practice.
7:20 若我去作所不愿意的，就不是我行出来的，乃是住在我里面的罪行出来的。
But if what I do not will, this I do, it is no longer I that work it out but sin that dwells in me.
7:21 于是我发现那律与我这愿意为善的人同在，就是那恶与我同在。
I find then the law with me who wills to do the good, that is, the evil is present with me.
7:22 因为按着里面的人，我是喜欢神的律，
For I delight in the law of God according to the inner man,
7:23 但我看出我肢体中另有个律，和我心思的律交战，借着那在我肢体中罪的律，把我掳去。
But I see a different law in my members, warring against the law of my mind and making me a captive to the law of sin which is in my members.
7:24 我是个苦恼的人！谁要救我脱离那属这死的身体？
Wretched man that I am! Who will deliver me from the body of this death?
7:25 感谢神，借着我们的主耶稣基督！这样看来，我自己用心思服事神的律，却用肉体服事罪的律。
Thanks be to God, through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then with the mind I myself serve the law of God, but with the flesh, the law of sin.
罗马书 Romans 第 8 章
8:1 如此，现今那些在基督耶稣里的，就没有定罪了。
There is now then no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus.
8:2 因为生命之灵的律，在基督耶稣里已经释放了我，使我脱离了罪与死的律。
For the law of the Spirit of life has freed me in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and of death.
8:3 律法因肉体而软弱，有所不能的，神，既在罪之肉体的样式里，并为着罪，差来了自己的儿子，就在肉体中定罪了罪，
For that which the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God, sending His own Son in the likeness of the flesh of sin and concerning sin,
condemned sin in the flesh,
8:4 使律法义的要求，成就在我们这不照着肉体，只照着灵而行的人身上。
That the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who do not walk according to the flesh but according to the spirit.
8:5 因为照着肉体的人，思念肉体的事；照着灵的人，思念那灵的事。
For those who are according to the flesh mind the things of the flesh; but those who are according to the spirit, the things of the Spirit.
8:6 因为心思置于肉体，就是死；心思置于灵，乃是生命平安。
For the mind set on the flesh is death, but the mind set on the spirit is life and peace.
8:7 因为置于肉体的心思，是与神为仇，因它不服神的律法，也是不能服；
Because the mind set on the flesh is enmity against God; for it is not subject to the law of God, for neither can it be.
8:8 而且在肉体里的人，不能得神的喜悦。
And those who are in the flesh cannot please God.
8:9 但神的灵若住在你们里面，你们就不在肉体里，乃在灵里了；然而人若没有基督的灵，就不是属基督的。
But you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you. Yet if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he is not of Him.
8:10 但基督若在你们里面，身体固然因罪是死的，灵却因义是生命。
But if Christ is in you, though the body is dead because of sin, the spirit is life because of righteousness.
8:11 然而那叫耶稣从死人中复活者的灵，若住在你们里面，那叫基督从死人中复活的，也必借着祂住在你们里面的灵，赐生命给你们必死的身体。
And if the Spirit of the One who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, He who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies
through His Spirit who indwells you.
8:12 弟兄们，这样，我们并不是欠肉体的债，去照肉体活着。
So then, brothers, we are debtors not to the flesh to live according to the flesh;
8:13 因为你们若照肉体活着，必要死；但你们若靠着那灵治死身体的行为，必要活着。
For if you live according to the flesh, you must die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the practices of the body, you will live.
8:14 因为凡被神的灵引导的，都是神的儿子。
For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God.
8:15 你们所受的不是奴役的灵，仍旧害怕；所受的乃是儿子名分的灵，在这灵里，我们呼叫：阿爸，父。
1073
For you have not received a spirit of slavery bringing you into fear again, but you have received a spirit of sonship in which we cry, Abba, Father!
8:16 那灵自己同我们的灵见证我们是神的儿女。
The Spirit Himself witnesses with our spirit that we are children of God.
8:17 既是儿女，便是后嗣，就是神的后嗣，和基督同作后嗣，只要我们与祂一同受苦，好叫我们也与祂一同得荣耀。
And if children, heirs also; on the one hand, heirs of God; on the other, joint heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with Him that we may also be glorified with Him.
8:18 因为我算定今时的苦楚，不配与将来要显于我们的荣耀相比。
For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the coming glory to be revealed upon us.
8:19 受造之物正在专切期望着，热切等待神的众子显示出来。
For the anxious watching of the creation eagerly awaits the revelation of the sons of God.
8:20 因为受造之物服在虚空之下，不是自己愿意的，乃是因那叫它服的，
For the creation was made subject to vanity, not of its own will, but because of Him who subjected it,
8:21 指望着受造之物自己，也要从败坏的奴役得着释放，得享神儿女之荣耀的自由。
In hope that the creation itself will also be freed from the slavery of corruption into the freedom of the glory of the children of God.
8:22 我们知道一切受造之物一同叹息，一同受生产之苦，直到如今。
For we know that the whole creation groans together and travails in pain together until now.
8:23 不但如此，就是我们这有那灵作初熟果子的，也是自己里面叹息，热切等待儿子的名分，就是我们的身体得赎。
And not only so, but we ourselves also, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan in ourselves, eagerly awaiting sonship, the redemption of
our body.
8:24 因为我们是在盼望中得救的；只是所见的盼望不是盼望，谁还盼望他所见的？
For we were saved in hope. But a hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he sees?
8:25 但我们若盼望所不见的，就必忍耐着热切等待。
But if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly await it through endurance.
8:26 况且，那灵也照样帮同担负我们的软弱；我们本不晓得当怎样祷告，只是那灵亲自用说不出来的叹息，为我们代求。
Moreover, in like manner the Spirit also joins in to help us in our weakness, for we do not know for what we should pray as is fitting, but the Spirit Himself
intercedes for us with groanings which cannot be uttered.
8:27 那鉴察人心的，晓得那灵的意思，因为祂是照着神为圣徒代求。
But He who searches the hearts knows what the mind of the Spirit is, because He intercedes for the saints according to God.
8:28 还有，我们晓得万有都互相效力，叫爱神的人得益处，就是按祂旨意被召的人。
And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to His purpose.
8:29 因为神所预知的人，祂也预定他们模成神儿子的形像，使祂儿子在许多弟兄中作长子。
Because those whom He foreknew, He also predestinated to be conformed to the image of His Son, that He might be the Firstborn among many brothers;
8:30 祂所预定的人，又召他们来；所召来的人，又称他们为义；所称为义的人，又叫他们得荣耀。
And those whom He predestinated, these He also called; and those whom He called, these He also justified; and those whom He justified, these He also glorified.
8:31 这样，对这些事，我们可说什么？神若帮助我们，谁能抵挡我们？
What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us?
8:32 神既不吝惜自己的儿子，为我们众人舍了，岂不也把万有和祂一同白白的赐给我们么？
Indeed, He who did not spare His own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how shall He not also with Him freely give us all things?
8:33 谁能控告神所拣选的人？有神称我们为义了。
Who shall bring a charge against God's chosen ones? It is God who justifies.
8:34 谁能定我们的罪？有基督耶稣已经死了，而且已经复活了，现今在神的右边，还为我们代求。
Who is he who condemns? It is Christ Jesus who died and, rather, who was raised, who is also at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us.
8:35 谁能使我们与基督的爱隔绝？难道是患难么？是困苦么？是逼迫么？是饥饿么？是赤身么？是危险么？是刀剑么？
Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or anguish or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword?
8:36 如经上所记：“我们为你的缘故，终日被杀，人看我们如将宰的羊。”
As it is written, "For Your sake we are being put to death all day long; we have been accounted as sheep for slaughter.''
8:37 然而借着那爱我们的，在这一切的事上，我们已经得胜有余了。
But in all these things we more than conquer through Him who loved us.
8:38 因为我深信，无论是死，是生，是天使，是掌权的，是现今的事，是要来的事，是有能的，
For I am persuaded that neither death nor life nor angels nor principalities nor things present nor things to come nor powers
8:39 是高，是深，或是别的受造之物，都不能叫我们与神的爱隔绝，这爱是在我们的主基督耶稣里的。
Nor height nor depth nor any other creature will be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
罗马书 Romans 第 9 章
9:1 我在基督里说真话，并不说谎，有我的良心在圣灵里同我作见证，
I speak the truth in Christ, I do not lie, my conscience bearing witness with me in the Holy Spirit,
9:2 我是大有忧愁，心里不住的伤痛。
That I have great grief and unceasing pain in my heart.
9:3 为我弟兄，我肉身的亲人，我宁愿自己被咒诅，与基督分离。
For I could wish that I myself were a curse, separated from Christ for my brothers, my kinsmen according to the flesh,
9:4 他们是以色列人，那儿子的名分、荣耀、诸约、律法的颁赐、事奉和应许，都是他们的；
Who are Israelites, whose are the sonship and the glory and the covenants and the giving of the law and the service and the promises;
9:5 列祖是他们的，按肉体说，基督也是出于他们的，祂是在万有之上，永远受颂赞的神。阿们。
Whose are the fathers, and out of whom, as regards what is according to flesh, is the Christ, who is God over all, blessed forever. Amen.
9:6 但这不是说，神的话落了空，因为从以色列生的，不都是以色列人；
1074
But it is not as though the word of God has fallen away, for not all who are out of Israel are Israel;
9:7 也不因为是亚伯拉罕的后裔，就都是儿女，惟独“从以撒生的，才要称为你的后裔。”
Neither is it that because they are the seed of Abraham, they are all children; but, "In Isaac shall your seed be called,''
9:8 这就是说，肉体的儿女不就是神的儿女，惟独那应许的儿女才算是后裔。
That is, it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God, but the children of the promise are accounted as the seed.
9:9 因为所应许的话是这样：“到明年这时候我要来，撒拉必生一个儿子。”
For this is the word of promise, "At this time next year I will come, and Sarah shall have a son.''
9:10 不但如此，还有利百加，既从一个人，就是从我们的祖宗以撒怀了孕，
And not only so, but Rebecca also, having conceived by one, Isaac our father,
9:11 双子还没有生下来，善恶也没有作出来，（只因要坚定神拣选人的旨意，不是本于行为，乃是本于那呼召人的，）
Though the children had not yet been born nor had done anything good or bad (that the purpose of God according to selection might remain, not of works but of
Him who calls),
9:12 神就对利百加说，“将来大的要服事小的。”
It was said to her, "The greater shall serve the less'';
9:13 正如经上所记：“雅各是我所爱的，以扫是我所恨的。”
As it is written, "Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated.''
9:14 这样，我们可说什么？难道在神有不义么？绝对没有！
What then shall we say? Is there unrighteousness with God? Absolutely not!
9:15 因为祂对摩西说，“我要向谁施怜悯，就向谁施怜悯；要对谁动怜恤，就对谁动怜恤。”
For to Moses He says, "I will have mercy on whomever I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whomever I will have compassion.''
9:16 这样看来，这不在于那定意的，也不在于那奔跑的，只在于那施怜悯的神。
So then it is not of him who wills, nor of him who runs, but of God who shows mercy.
9:17 因为经上对法老说，“我特意将你兴起来，为要在你身上显示我的权能，并要使我的名传遍全地。”
For the Scripture says to Pharaoh, "For this very thing I have raised you up, that I might show in you My power, and that My name might be proclaimed in all the
earth.''
9:18 这样看来，神愿意向谁施怜悯，就向谁施怜悯；愿意叫谁刚硬，就叫谁刚硬。
So then He has mercy on whom He wills, and He hardens whom He wills.
9:19 这样，你必对我说，祂为什么还指责人？有谁抗拒祂的旨意？
You will say to me then, Why does He still find fault? For who withstands His will?
9:20 人哪，你是谁，竟向神顶嘴？被塑造者岂能对塑造他者说，你为什么这样造我？
But rather, O man, who are you who answer back to God? Shall the thing molded say to him who molded it, Why did you make me thus?
9:21 窑匠难道没有权柄，从同一团泥里，拿一块作成贵重的器皿，又拿一块作成卑贱的器皿么？
Or does not the potter have authority over the clay to make out of the same lump one vessel unto honor and another unto dishonor?
9:22 若是神愿意显示祂的忿怒，彰显祂的能力，就多用恒忍宽容那些可怒、预备遭毁灭的器皿，
And what if God, wishing to demonstrate His wrath and make His power known, endured with much long-suffering vessels of wrath fitted for destruction,
9:23 且要在那些蒙怜悯、早预备得荣耀的器皿上，彰显祂荣耀的丰富；
In order that He might make known the riches of His glory upon vessels of mercy, which He had before prepared unto glory,
9:24 这器皿就是我们这蒙祂所召的，不但从犹太人中，也从外邦人中，这有什么不可？
Even us, whom He has also called, not only from among the Jews but also from among the Gentiles?
9:25 就如神在何西阿书上也说，“那本来不是我子民的，我要称为我的子民；本来不是蒙爱的，我要称为蒙爱的；
As He also says in Hosea, "I will call those who were not My people My people, and her who was not beloved beloved;
9:26 从前在什么地方对他们说，你们不是我的子民，将来就在那里称他们为活神的儿子。”
And it shall be that in the place where it was said to them, You are not My people, there shall they be called sons of the living God.''
9:27 以赛亚指着以色列人喊着：“以色列子孙的数目虽如海沙，得救的不过是剩下的余数；
And Isaiah cries concerning Israel, "Though the number of the sons of Israel be like the sand of the sea, it is the remnant that shall be saved;
9:28 因为主要在地上实行祂的话，要将祂的话完成且截短。”
For the Lord will execute His word upon the earth, accomplishing it and cutting it short.''
9:29 又如以赛亚先前说过，“若不是万军之主给我们存留余种，我们早已成了所多玛，并像蛾摩拉的样子了。”
And as Isaiah has previously said, "Unless the Lord of hosts had left us a seed, we would have become like Sodom and been made like Gomorrah.''
9:30 这样，我们可说什么？那未曾追求义的外邦人，反得着了义，就是本于信的义。
What then shall we say? That the Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness have laid hold of righteousness, but a righteousness which is out of faith;
9:31 但那追求律法之义的以色列人，并未达到那律法。
But Israel, pursuing a law of righteousness, did not attain to that law.
9:32 这是为什么？因为不是本于信，而是本于行。他们正碰跌在那绊脚石上，
Why? Because they pursued it not out of faith, but as it were out of works. They stumbled at the stone of stumbling,
9:33 就如经上所记：“看哪，我在锡安放一块绊脚的石头，并跌人的磐石，信靠祂的，必不至于羞愧。”
As it is written, "Behold, I lay in Zion a stone of stumbling, a rock of offense, and he who believes on Him shall not be put to shame.''
罗马书 Romans 第 10 章
10:1 弟兄们，我心里所喜悦的，并我向神为以色列人所祈求的，是要他们得救。
Brothers, the good pleasure of my heart and my petition to God for them is for their salvation.
10:2 我可以为他们作见证，他们对神有热心，但不是按着完全的知识；
For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to full knowledge;
10:3 因为不知道神的义，又想要建立自己的义，就不服神的义了。
1075
For because they were ignorant of God's righteousness and sought to establish their own righteousness, they were not subject to the righteousness of God.
10:4 原来律法的总结就是基督，使凡信的都得着义。
For Christ is the end of the law unto righteousness to everyone who believes.
10:5 论到那本于律法的义，摩西写着：“行这些事的，必因这些事活着。”
For Moses writes concerning the righteousness which is out of the law: "The man who does them shall live by them.''
10:6 但那本于信的义如此说，“你不要心里说，谁要升到天上？”就是要领下基督来，
But the righteousness which is out of faith speaks in this way, "Do not say in your heart, Who will ascend into heaven?'' that is, to bring Christ down;
10:7 或说，“谁要下到无底坑？”就是要领基督从死人中上来。
Or, "Who will descend into the abyss?'' that is, to bring Christ up from the dead.
10:8 这义到底怎么说？它说，“这话与你相近，就在你口里，也在你心里。”这就是我们所传信主的话，
But what does it say? "The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart,'' that is, the word of the faith which we proclaim,
10:9 就是你若口里认耶稣为主，心里信神叫祂从死人中复活，就必得救；
That if you confess with your mouth Jesus as Lord and believe in your heart that God has raised Him from the dead, you will be saved;
10:10 因为人心里信，就得着义；口里承认，就得救。
For with the heart there is believing unto righteousness, and with the mouth there is confession unto salvation.
10:11 因为经上说，“凡信靠祂的，必不至于羞愧。”
For the Scripture says, "Everyone who believes on Him shall not be put to shame.''
10:12 因为犹太人和希利尼人并没有分别，众人同有一位主，祂对一切呼求祂的人是丰富的。
For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord is Lord of all and rich to all who call upon Him;
10:13 因为“凡呼求主名的，就必得救。”
For "whoever calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.''
10:14 然而人所未曾信入的，怎能呼求？所未曾听见的，怎能信入？没有传道的，怎能听见？
How then shall they call upon Him into whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe into Him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they
hear without one who proclaims Him?
10:15 若非奉差遣，怎能传道？如经上所记：“传福音报喜信的人，他们的脚踪何等佳美！”
And how shall they proclaim Him unless they are sent? As it is written, "How beautiful are the feet of those who announce the news of good things!''
10:16 只是人没有都顺从福音，因为以赛亚说，“主阿，我们所传给人听的，有谁信？”
But not all have obeyed the gospel, for Isaiah says, "Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us?''
10:17 可见信是由于听，听是借着基督的话。
So faith comes out of hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ.
10:18 但我说，他们未曾听见么？的确听见了：“他们的声音传遍全地，他们的言语达到地极。”
But I say, Have they not heard? Yes surely: "Their voice has gone out into all the earth and their words to the ends of the inhabited earth.''
10:19 但我说，以色列人不知道么？先有摩西说，“我要用那不是国民的，惹动你们妒忌；我要用那无知的民，触动你们发怒。”
But I say, Did Israel not know this? First, Moses says, "I will provoke you to jealousy by them who are not a nation; by a nation without understanding I will anger
you.''
10:20 又有以赛亚放胆说，“没有寻找我的，我叫他们遇见；没有求问我的，我向他们显现。”
And Isaiah is very bold and says, "I was found by those who did not seek Me; I became manifest to those who did not ask for Me.''
10:21 至于以色列人，他却说，“我整天向那悖逆顶嘴的百姓伸手招呼。”
But with regard to Israel he says, "All the day long I have stretched out My hands to a people who disobey and contradict.''
罗马书 Romans 第 11 章
11:1 这样，我说，神弃绝了祂的百姓么？绝对没有！因为我也是以色列人，出于亚伯拉罕的后裔，属便雅悯支派的。
I say then, Has God cast away His people? Absolutely not! For I also am an Israelite, out of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.
11:2 神并没有弃绝祂预先所知道的百姓。你们岂不晓得经上论到以利亚是怎么说的？他怎样向神控告以色列人说，
God has not cast away His people whom He foreknew. Or do you not know what the Scripture says in the passage concerning Elijah, how he pleads with God
against Israel?
11:3 “主阿，他们杀了你的申言者，拆了你的祭坛，只剩下我一个人，他们还要寻索我的命。”
"Lord, they have killed Your prophets, they have torn down Your altars; and I am left alone, and they are seeking my life.''
11:4 但神的回话是怎么对他说的？是说，“我为自己留下七千人，是未曾向巴力屈膝的。”
But what does the divine answer say to him? "I have reserved for Myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to Baal.''
11:5 在现今的时候，也是这样，照着恩典的拣选，还有剩下的余数。
In the same way then at the present time also there has come into being a remnant according to the selection of grace.
11:6 既是照着恩典，就不再是本于行为；不然，恩典就不再是恩典了。
But if by grace, it is no longer out of works; otherwise grace is no longer grace.
11:7 这怎么样？以色列人所切求的，他们没有得着，惟有蒙拣选的人得着了，其余的都成了顽梗不化的。
What then? That which Israel is seeking after, this it has not obtained, but the chosen have obtained it, and the rest have been hardened;
11:8 如经上所记：“神给他们昏睡的灵，看不见的眼，听不见的耳，直到今日。”
As it is written, "God gave them a spirit of deep sleep, eyes to see not and ears to hear not, until this very day.''
11:9 大卫也说，“愿他们的筵席成为陷阱，成为网罗，成为绊脚石，作对他们的报应；
And David says, "Let their table become a snare and a trap and a stumbling block and a retribution to them;
11:10 愿他们的眼睛昏蒙，不能看见；愿你时常弯下他们的脊背。”
Let their eyes be darkened so that they cannot see; and bend their back continually.''
11:11 这样，我说，他们失脚是要他们跌倒么？绝对不是！反倒因他们的过失，救恩便临到外邦人，好惹动他们妒忌。
I say then, Have they stumbled so as to fall? Absolutely not! But by their misstep salvation has come to the Gentiles, to provoke them to jealousy.
1076
11:12 若他们的过失成为世人的富足，他们的缺乏成为外邦人的富足，何况他们的丰满？
But if their misstep has become riches for the world, and their loss, riches for the Gentiles, how much more will their fullness be!
11:13 我是对你们外邦人说的，因我是外邦人的使徒，所以荣耀我的职事，
But I am speaking to you, the Gentiles. Inasmuch therefore as I am an apostle of the Gentiles, I glorify my ministry,
11:14 或者可以惹动我骨肉之亲妒忌，好救他们一些人。
If perhaps I may provoke those of my flesh to jealousy and save some of them.
11:15 若他们被丢弃，世人就得与神和好，他们被收纳，岂不是从死人中复生么？
For if their being cast aside is the reconciliation of the world, what will their being received back be, if not life from the dead?
11:16 所献面团的头一部分若是圣的，全团也是圣的；树根若是圣的，树枝也是圣的。
Now if the dough offered as the firstfruits is holy, the lump is also; and if the root is holy, the branches are also.
11:17 若有几根枝子被折下来，你这野橄榄得在其中接上去，一同有分于橄榄根的肥汁，
But if some of the branches were broken off, and you, being a wild olive tree, were grafted in among them and became a fellow partaker of the root of fatness of
the olive tree,
11:18 你就不可向那些枝子夸口；纵然夸口，也不是你托着根，乃是根托着你。
Do not boast against the branches; but if you boast, remember that it is not you who bear the root, but the root you.
11:19 这样，你要说，那些枝子被折下来，是特为叫我接上去。
You will say then, Branches were broken off so that I might be grafted in.
11:20 不错，他们因着不信，所以被折下来，你因着信，所以站立得住。你不可心思高傲，倒要惧怕；
Rightly said: they were broken off because of unbelief, and you stand by faith. Do not be high-minded, but fear;
11:21 因为神若不吝惜本来的枝子，也必不吝惜你。
For if God did not spare the natural branches, neither will He spare you.
11:22 你看神的恩慈和严厉：对那跌倒的人是严厉，对你却是神的恩慈，只要你常留在祂的恩慈中；不然，你也要被砍下来。
Behold then the kindness and severity of God: on those who fell, severity; but on you, the kindness of God, if you continue in His kindness; otherwise you also will
be cut off.
11:23 而且他们若不是常留于不信中，仍要被接上，因为神能够把他们重新接上。
And they also, if they do not continue in unbelief, will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again.
11:24 你是从那天然的野橄榄树上砍下来的，尚且逆着性得接在栽种的橄榄树上，何况这些天然的枝子，岂不更要接在自己的橄榄树上么？
For if you were cut off from what is by nature a wild olive tree and were grafted contrary to nature into the cultivated olive tree, how much more will these who are
the natural branches be grafted into their own olive tree!
11:25 弟兄们，我不愿意你们不知道这奥秘，（恐怕你们自以为精明，）就是以色列人有几分硬心，直到外邦人的数目添满了，
For I do not want you, brothers, to be ignorant of this mystery (lest you be wise in yourselves), that hardness has come upon Israel in part, until the fullness of the
Gentiles comes in;
11:26 于是以色列全家都要得救，如经上所记：“必有拯救者从锡安出来，祂要从雅各家消除不虔。
And thus all Israel will be saved, as it is written, "The Deliverer will come out of Zion; He will turn away ungodliness from Jacob.
11:27 我除去他们罪的时候，这就是我与他们所立的约。”
And this is the covenant from Me with them, when I take away their sins.''
11:28 就着福音说，他们因你们的缘故是仇敌；但就着拣选说，他们因列祖的缘故是蒙爱的。
According to the gospel they are enemies for your sake, but according to the selection they are beloved for the fathers' sake.
11:29 因为神的恩赐和呼召，是没有后悔的。
For the gracious gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable.
11:30 你们从前不信从神，如今却因他们的不信从，蒙了怜悯；
For just as you once disobeyed God, but now have been shown mercy because of their disobedience,
11:31 照样，他们现今也是不信从的，叫他们因着你们所蒙的怜悯，现今也就蒙怜悯。
So these also now have disobeyed, so that because of the mercy shown to you they also now may be shown mercy.
11:32 因为神将众人都圈在不信从之中，为要怜悯众人。
For God has shut up all in disobedience that He might show mercy to all.
11:33 深哉，神的丰富、智慧和知识！祂的判断何其难测，祂的道路何其难寻！
O the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are His judgments and untraceable His ways!
11:34 谁曾知道主的心思，谁曾作过祂的策士？
For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has become His counselor?
11:35 谁曾先给了祂，使祂后来偿还？
Or who has first given to Him, and it will be repaid to him?
11:36 因为万有都是本于祂、借着祂、并归于祂；愿荣耀归与祂，直到永远。阿们。
Because out from Him and through Him and to Him are all things. To Him be the glory forever. Amen.
罗马书 Romans 第 12 章
12:1 所以弟兄们，我借着神的怜恤劝你们，将身体献上，当作圣别并讨神喜悦的活祭，这是你们合理的事奉。
I exhort you therefore, brothers, through the compassions of God to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, well pleasing to God, which is your reasonable
service.
12:2 不要模仿这世代，反要借着心思的更新而变化，叫你们验证何为神那美好、可喜悦、并纯全的旨意。
And do not be fashioned according to this age, but be transformed by the renewing of the mind that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good
and well pleasing and perfect.
12:3 我借着所赐给我的恩典，对你们各人说，不要看自己过于所当看的，乃要照着神所分给各人信心的度量，看得清明适度。
1077
For I say, through the grace given to me, to every one who is among you, not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think, but to think so as to be sober-
minded, as God has apportioned to each a measure of faith.
12:4 正如我们一个身体上有好些肢体，但肢体不都有一样的功用；
For just as in one body we have many members, and all the members do not have the same function,
12:5 我们这许多人，在基督里是一个身体，并且各个互相作肢体，也是如此。
So we who are many are one Body in Christ, and individually members one of another.
12:6 照着所赐给我们的恩典，我们得了不同的恩赐：或申言，就当照着信心的程度申言；
And having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, whether prophecy, let us prophesy according to the proportion of faith;
12:7 或服事，就当忠于服事；或作教导的，就当忠于教导；
Or service, let us be faithful in that service; or he who teaches, in that teaching;
12:8 或作劝勉的，就当忠于劝勉；分授的，就当单纯；带领的，就当殷勤；怜悯人的，就当甘心乐意。
Or he who exhorts, in that exhortation; he who gives, in simplicity; he who leads, in diligence; he who shows mercy, in cheerfulness.
12:9 爱不可假冒，恶要厌弃，善要贴近。
Let love be without hypocrisy. Abhor what is evil; cling to what is good.
12:10 爱弟兄，要彼此亲热；恭敬人，要互相争先。
Love one another warmly in brotherly love; take the lead in showing honor one to another.
12:11 殷勤不可懒惰，要灵里火热，常常服事主。
Do not be slothful in zeal, but be burning in spirit, serving the Lord.
12:12 在指望中要喜乐，在患难中要忍耐，在祷告上要坚定持续，
Rejoice in hope; endure in tribulation; persevere in prayer.
12:13 在圣徒缺乏上要有交通，待客要追寻机会。
Contribute to the needs of the saints; pursue hospitality.
12:14 逼迫你们的，要为他们祝福；只要祝福，不可咒诅。
Bless those who persecute you; bless and do not curse.
12:15 与喜乐的人要同乐，与哀哭的人要同哭。
Rejoice with those who rejoice; weep with those who weep.
12:16 要彼此思念相同的事，不要思念高傲的事，倒要俯就卑微的人，不要自以为精明。
Be of the same mind toward one another, not setting your mind on the high things but going along with the lowly; do not be wise in yourselves.
12:17 不要以恶报恶，要准备在众人面前作善美的事。
Repay no one evil for evil; take forethought for things honorable in the sight of all men.
12:18 若是可能，总要尽力与众人和睦。
If possible, as far as it depends on you, live in peace with all men.
12:19 亲爱的，不要为自己伸冤，宁可给神的忿怒留地步，因为经上记着：“主说，伸冤在我，我必报应。”
Do not avenge yourselves, beloved, but give place to the wrath of God, for it is written, "Vengeance is Mine, I will repay, says the Lord.''
12:20 反而“你的仇敌若饿了，就给他吃，若渴了，就给他喝，因为你这样行，就是把炭火堆在他的头上。”
But "if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him a drink; for in doing this you will heap coals of fire upon his head.''
12:21 你不可为恶所胜，反要以善胜恶。
Do not be conquered by evil, but conquer evil with good.
罗马书 Romans 第 13 章
13:1 在上有权柄的，人人都当服从，因为没有权柄不是从神来的，凡掌权的都是神所设立的。
Let every person be subject to the authorities over him, for there is no authority except from God, and those which exist are ordained by God.
13:2 所以抗拒掌权的，就是抗拒神的设立；抗拒的必自招处罚。
So then he who resists the authority opposes God's ordination, and those who oppose will receive judgment to themselves.
13:3 作官的原不是叫行善的惧怕，乃是叫作恶的惧怕。你愿意不惧怕掌权的么？你只要行善，就可得他的称赞，
For the rulers are not a terror to the good work, but to the evil. Do you want to have no fear of the authority? Do what is good, and you will have praise from him;
13:4 因为他是神的仆人，是与你有益的。但你若作恶，就当惧怕，因为他不是徒然佩剑，他是神的仆人，是伸冤的，使忿怒临到那作恶的。
For he is a servant of God to you for good. But if you do what is evil, fear; he does not bear the sword in vain; for he is a servant of God, an avenger for wrath to
him who practices evil.
13:5 所以你们必须服从，不但是因为忿怒，也是因为良心。
Therefore it is necessary to be subject, not only because of wrath but also because of conscience.
13:6 你们上税也为这缘故，因他们是神的仆役，为这差事专责服役。
For because of this you also pay taxes; for they are God's officers, attending constantly to this very thing.
13:7 凡人所当得的，就给他们：当得税的，就给他上税；当得捐的，就给他纳捐；当惧怕的，就惧怕他；当尊敬的，就尊敬他。
Render to all the things due: tax to whom tax is due, custom to whom custom is due, fear to whom fear is due, honor to whom honor is due.
13:8 凡事都不可亏欠人，惟有彼此相爱，要常以为亏欠，因为爱人的就完全了律法。
Owe nothing to anyone except to love one another; for he who loves the other has fulfilled the law.
13:9 因为“不可奸淫，不可杀人，不可偷盗，不可贪心，”以及任何别的诫命，都总括在“要爱邻舍如同自己”这一句话里面了。
For, "You shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not covet,'' and if there is any other commandment, it is summed up in this
word, namely, "You shall love your neighbor as yourself.''
13:10 爱是不加害与邻舍的，所以爱乃是律法的完满。
Love does not work evil to his neighbor; therefore love is the fulfillment of the law.
13:11 再者，你们晓得这时期，现在就是你们该睡醒的时刻了，因为我们得救，现今比初信的时候更近了。
And this, knowing the time, that it is already the hour for you to be raised from sleep; for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed.
1078
13:12 黑夜已深，白昼将近，所以我们当脱去黑暗的行为，穿上光的兵器。
The night is far advanced, and the day has drawn near. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the weapons of light.
13:13 行事为人要端正得体，好像在白昼；不可荒宴醉酒，不可纵欲淫荡，不可争竞嫉妒；
Let us walk becomingly as in the day; not in reveling and drunkenness, not in fornication and licentiousness, not in strife and jealousy.
13:14 总要穿上主耶稣基督，不要为肉体打算，去放纵私欲。
But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill its lusts.
罗马书 Romans 第 14 章
14:1 信心软弱的，你们要接纳，但不是为判断所争论的事。
Now him who is weak in faith receive, but not for the purpose of passing judgment on his considerations.
14:2 有人信百物都可吃，但那软弱的，只吃蔬菜。
One believes that he may eat all things, but he who is weak eats vegetables.
14:3 吃的人不可轻视不吃的人，不吃的人也不可审判吃的人，因为神已经接纳他了。
He who eats, let him not despise him who does not eat; and he who does not eat, let him not judge him who eats, for God has received him.
14:4 你是谁，竟审判别人的家仆？他或站住或跌倒，自有他的主人在，而且他也必要站住，因为主能使他站住。
Who are you who judge another's household servant? To his own master he stands or falls; and he will be made to stand, for the Lord is able to make him stand.
14:5 有人断定这日比那日强，有人断定日日都一样，只是各人自己的心思要坚信不移。
One judges one day above another; another judges every day alike. Let each be fully persuaded in his own mind.
14:6 守日的人是向主守的，吃的人是向主吃的，因为他感谢神；不吃的人是向主不吃的，他也感谢神。
He who regards that day, regards it to the Lord; and he who eats, eats to the Lord, for he gives thanks to God; and he who does not eat, does not eat to the Lord,
and he gives thanks to God.
14:7 因为我们没有一个人向自己活，也没有一个人向自己死；
For none of us lives to himself, and none dies to himself;
14:8 我们若活着，是向主活；若死了，是向主死。所以我们或活或死，总是主的人。
For whether we live, we live to the Lord, and whether we die, we die to the Lord. Therefore whether we live or we die, we are the Lord's.
14:9 因此基督死了，又活了，为要作死人并活人的主。
For Christ died and lived again for this, that He might be Lord both of the dead and of the living.
14:10 你为什么审判你的弟兄？又为什么轻视你的弟兄？我们都要站在神的审判台前，
But you, why do you judge your brother? Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God,
14:11 因为经上记着：“主说，我指着我的生存起誓，万膝必向我跪拜，万口也必向神公开承认。”
For it is written, "As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to Me, and every tongue shall openly confess to God.''
14:12 这样看来，我们各人必要将自己的事向神陈明。
So then each one of us will give an account concerning himself to God.
14:13 所以我们不可再彼此审判，宁可这样断定：不给弟兄放下绊脚石或跌人之物。
Therefore let us judge one another no longer, but rather judge this: not to put a stumbling block or cause of falling before your brother.
14:14 我在主耶稣里确知深信，凡物本身没有不洁净的，惟独人算为不洁净的，在他就不洁净了。
I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that there is nothing unclean of itself, except to him who considers something to be unclean; to that man it is unclean.
14:15 你若因食物叫弟兄忧愁，就不再是照着爱而行。基督已经替他死了，你不可因你的食物败坏他。
For if because of food your brother is wounded, you no longer walk according to love. Do not destroy by your food that man for whom Christ died.
14:16 所以，不可叫你们的善被人毁谤，
Therefore do not let your good be slandered;
14:17 因为神的国不在于吃喝，乃在于公义、和平、并圣灵中的喜乐。
For the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit.
14:18 这样服事基督的，就为神所喜悦，又为人所称许。
For he who serves Christ in this is well pleasing to God and approved by men.
14:19 所以我们务要追求和平的事，以及彼此建造的事。
So then let us pursue the things of peace and the things for building up one another.
14:20 不可因食物拆毁神的工程。凡物固然洁净，但人吃了，以致成了绊脚石，就是他的恶了。
Do not break down the work of God for the sake of food. All things indeed are clean, but it is evil for a man to eat while stumbling others.
14:21 无论是吃肉，是喝酒，或是什么别的绊跌你弟兄的事，一概不作才好。
It is good not to eat meat nor drink wine nor to do anything by which your brother stumbles.
14:22 你有信心，就当自己在神面前持守。人在自己所称许的事上，不审判自己，就有福了。
The faith which you have, have to yourself before God. Blessed is he who does not judge himself in what he approves;
14:23 但那疑惑的人若吃了，就必被定罪，因为不是出于信心。凡不是出于信心的，都是罪。
But he who doubts is condemned if he eats, because it is not out of faith; for all that is not out of faith is sin.
罗马书 Romans 第 15 章
15:1 我们刚强的人，应该担代不刚强之人的软弱，不求自己的喜悦。
But we who are strong ought to bear the weaknesses of those who are weak and not to please ourselves.
15:2 我们各人要叫邻舍喜悦，使他得益处，被建造。
Let each of us please his neighbor with a view to what is good for building up.
15:3 因为基督也不求自己的喜悦，反而如经上所记：“辱骂你之人的辱骂，都落在我身上。”
1079
For Christ also did not please Himself, but as it is written, "The reproaches of those who reproached You fell upon Me.''
15:4 从前所写的，都是为教训我们写的，使我们借着忍耐，并借着经书的鼓励，可以得着盼望。
For the things that were written previously were written for our instruction, in order that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we
might have hope.
15:5 但愿那赐忍耐与鼓励的神，叫你们照着基督耶稣，彼此思念相同的事，
Now the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to be of the same mind toward one another according to Christ Jesus,
15:6 使你们同心合意，用同一的口，荣耀我们主耶稣基督的神与父。
That with one accord you may with one mouth glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
15:7 所以你们要彼此接纳，如同基督接纳你们一样，使荣耀归与神。
Therefore receive one another, as Christ also received you to the glory of God.
15:8 我说，基督是为神的真实，作了受割礼之人的执事，要证实对列祖的应许，
For I say that Christ has become a servant of the circumcision for the sake of God's truthfulness, to confirm the promises given to the fathers,
15:9 并叫外邦人，因着神的怜悯荣耀神，如经上所记：“因此我要在外邦中颂扬你，歌颂你的名。”
And that the Gentiles should glorify God for His mercy, as it is written, "Therefore I will extol You among the Gentiles, and I will sing praise to Your name.''
15:10 又说，“外邦人阿，你们当与祂的百姓一同快乐。”
And again he says, "Rejoice, Gentiles, with His people.''
15:11 又说，“万邦阿，你们都当赞美主，愿万民都称赞祂。”
And again, "Praise the Lord, all you Gentiles, and let all the peoples speak praise to Him.''
15:12 又有以赛亚说，“将来有耶西的根，就是那兴起来要治理外邦的，外邦人都要寄望于祂。”
And again, Isaiah says, "There shall be the root of Jesse, even He who rises to rule the Gentiles; on Him will the Gentiles hope.''
15:13 但愿那赐盼望的神，因信将一切喜乐平安充满你们，使你们靠圣灵的能力，充盈满溢的有盼望。
Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that you may abound in hope in the power of the Holy Spirit.
15:14 我的弟兄们，我自己也深信你们是满有良善，充满了各样的知识，也能彼此劝戒。
But I myself also am persuaded concerning you, my brothers, that you yourselves also are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, able also to admonish one
another.
15:15 但在有些点上，我更加放胆的写给你们，是要提醒你们，特因神所赐我的恩典，
But I have written the more boldly to you on some points so as to remind you of them again because of the grace given to me by God
15:16 使我为外邦人作基督耶稣的仆役，作神福音勤奋的祭司，叫所献上的外邦人，在圣灵里得以圣别，可蒙悦纳。
That I might be a minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles, a laboring priest of the gospel of God, in order that the offering of the Gentiles might be acceptable,
having been sanctified in the Holy Spirit.
15:17 所以论到神的事，我在基督耶稣里有可夸的。
I have therefore my boasting in Christ Jesus in the things pertaining to God.
15:18 除了基督藉我作成的那些事，我什么都不敢提，只提祂借着我的言语和行为，用神迹奇事的能力，并那灵的能力，使外邦人顺从；
For I will not dare to speak anything of the things which Christ has not accomplished through me for the obedience of the Gentiles, by word and by work,
15:19 这样，我从耶路撒冷，直转到以利哩古，到处传了基督的福音。
In the power of signs and wonders, in the power of the Spirit of God; so that from Jerusalem and round about to Illyricum, I have fully preached the gospel of
Christ,
15:20 我立定志向，不在基督的名被称过的地方传福音，免得建造在别人的根基上，
But have done so aspiring to announce the gospel not where Christ has been named, so that I would not build upon another's foundation;
15:21 就如经上所记：“未曾得知祂信息的，将要看见；未曾听过的，将要领悟。”
But as it is written, "They will see, they to whom nothing concerning Him was announced; and those who have not heard will understand.''
15:22 因此，我也多次被拦阻，总不得到你们那里去。
For this reason also I have been hindered these many times from coming to you.
15:23 但如今这一带地方已无处可传，而且多年来我一直想望，当我去西班牙的时候，可以到你们那里，
But now I no longer have place in these regions and have had a desire since many years ago to come to you
15:24 盼望从你们那里经过，得见你们，先与你们交往，稍得满足，然后蒙你们送行到那里去。
Whenever I may go to Spain, for I hope to see you in passing and be sent forward there by you, if first I am filled, at least in part, by your company.
15:25 但现在我往耶路撒冷去，供给圣徒。
But now I am going to Jerusalem, ministering to the saints.
15:26 因为马其顿和亚该亚人，乐意对耶路撒冷圣徒中的穷人有些交通。
For Macedonia and Achaia have been pleased to make some contribution for the poor among the saints in Jerusalem.
15:27 这是他们乐意的，其实也是他们所欠的债。因外邦人既然分享犹太人属灵的事物，就当供给他们肉身之物。
For they were pleased to do it, and their debtors they are. For if the Gentiles have shared in their spiritual things, they ought also to do service to them in material
things.
15:28 等我办完了这事，把这果子向他们交付妥当，就要路过你们那里，往西班牙去。
When therefore I have finished this and have sealed to them this fruit, I will go on by way of you to Spain.
15:29 我也晓得，我去的时候，必带着基督之福的丰满而去。
And I know that when I come to you, I will come in the fullness of the blessing of Christ.
15:30 弟兄们，我借着我们的主耶稣基督，并借着那灵的爱，恳求你们在为我向神的祷告中，与我一同竭力，
Now I exhort you, brothers, through our Lord Jesus Christ and through the love of the Spirit, to strive together with me in your prayers to God on my behalf,
15:31 叫我可以得救，脱离犹太地不信从的人，也叫我对耶路撒冷的服事，可蒙圣徒悦纳，
That I may be delivered from those who are disobedient in Judea, and that my service for Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints,
15:32 并叫我借着神的旨意，欢欢喜喜的到你们那里，与你们同得安息畅快。
So that coming to you in joy through the will of God, I may refresh myself and rest with you.
15:33 愿平安的神与你们众人同在。阿们。
Now the God of peace be with you all. Amen.
1080
罗马书 Romans 第 16 章
16:1 我向你们推荐我们的姊妹非比，她是在坚革哩的召会的女执事，
I commend to you Phoebe our sister, who is a deaconess of the church which is in Cenchrea,
16:2 请你们在主里面照着与圣徒相配的接待她。她在何事上需要你们，你们就辅助她，因她素来护助许多人，也护助了我。
That you receive her in the Lord in a manner worthy of the saints and assist her in whatever matter she may have need of you; for she herself has also been the
patroness of many, of myself as well.
16:3 问我在基督耶稣里的同工，百基拉和亚居拉安；
Greet Prisca and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus,
16:4 他们为我的性命，将自己的颈项置于度外，不但我感谢他们，就是外邦的众召会也感谢他们；
Who risked their own necks for my life, to whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles;
16:5 又问在他们家中的召会安。问我所亲爱的以拜尼土安，他是亚西亚归基督初结的果子。
And greet the church, which is in their house. Greet Epaenetus, my beloved, who is the firstfruits of Asia unto Christ.
16:6 问为你们多多劳苦的马利亚安。
Greet Mary, one who has labored much for us.
16:7 问我亲属与我一同坐监的安多尼古和犹尼亚安，他们是使徒中著名的，且比我先在基督里。
Greet Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen and my fellow prisoners, who are of note among the apostles, who also were in Christ before me.
16:8 问我在主里所亲爱的暗伯利安。
Greet Ampliatus, my beloved in the Lord.
16:9 问我们在基督里的同工耳巴奴，并我所亲爱的士大古安。
Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in Christ, and Stachys, my beloved.
16:10 问在基督里经过试验而蒙称许的亚比利安。问那些属于亚利多布的人安。
Greet Apelles, approved in Christ. Greet those of the household of Aristobulus.
16:11 问我亲属希罗天安。问那些属于拿其数，在主里的人安。
Greet Herodion, my kinsman. Greet those of the household of Narcissus who are in the Lord.
16:12 问在主里劳苦的土非拿氏和土富撒氏安。问可亲爱在主里多受劳苦的彼息氏安。
Greet Tryphaena and Tryphosa, who labor in the Lord. Greet Persis, the beloved sister, one who has labored much in the Lord.
16:13 问在主里蒙拣选的鲁孚和他母亲，也就是我的母亲安。
Greet Rufus, chosen in the Lord, and his mother as well as mine.
16:14 问亚逊其土，弗勒干，黑米，八罗巴，黑马，并与他们同在的弟兄们安。
Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brothers with them.
16:15 问非罗罗古和犹利亚，尼利亚和他姊妹，同阿林巴，并与他们同在的众圣徒安。
Greet Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints with them.
16:16 你们要用圣别的亲嘴彼此问安。基督的众召会都问你们安。
Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the churches of Christ greet you.
16:17 弟兄们，那些造成分立和绊跌之事，违反你们所学之教训的人，我恳求你们要留意，并要避开他们。
Now I exhort you, brothers, to mark those who make divisions and causes of stumbling contrary to the teaching which you have learned, and turn away from
them.
16:18 因为这样的人不服事我们的主基督，只服事自己的肚腹，且用花言巧语，诱骗那些老实人的心。
For such men do not serve our Lord Christ, but their own stomach, and through smooth words and flattering speech deceive the hearts of the simple.
16:19 你们的顺从已经传于众人，所以我为你们欢乐，不过我还愿意你们在善上智慧，在恶上单纯。
For the report of your obedience has reached to all; therefore I rejoice over you, but I want you to be wise as to what is good and guileless as to what is evil.
16:20 平安的神快要将撒但践踏在你们的脚下。愿我们主耶稣的恩，与你们同在。
Now the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus be with you.
16:21 我的同工提摩太，并我的亲属路求，耶孙和所西巴德，问你们安。
Timothy, my fellow worker, greets you, as well as Lucius and Jason and Sosipater, my kinsmen.
16:22 我这代笔写信的德丢，在主里问你们安。
I, Tertius, who write this epistle, greet you in the Lord.
16:23 那接待我，也接待全召会的该犹，问你们安。本城的司库以拉都和弟兄括土，问你们安。
Gaius, my host and host of the whole church, greets you. Erastus, the city treasurer, greets you, and Quartus the brother.
16:24 见 24 注 1。
See note 24.
16:25 神能照我的福音，就是关于耶稣基督的传扬，照历世以来密而不宣之奥秘的启示，坚固你们；
Now to Him who is able to establish you according to my gospel, that is, the proclamation of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery, which has
been kept in silence in the times of the ages
16:26 这奥秘如今显明出来，且照永远之神的命令，借着众申言者所写的，指示万国，使他们顺从信仰。
But has now been manifested, and through the prophetic writings, according to the command of the eternal God, has been made known to all the Gentiles for
the obedience of faith;
16:27 愿荣耀借着耶稣基督，归与这位独一、智慧的神，直到永永远远。阿们。
To the only wise God through Jesus Christ, to Him be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
1081
46. 哥林多前书 1 Corinthians
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 1 章
1:1 凭神旨意，蒙召作基督耶稣使徒的保罗，和弟兄所提尼，
Paul, a called apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, and Sosthenes the brother,
1:2 写信给在哥林多神的召会，就是给在基督耶稣里被圣别，蒙召的圣徒，同着所有在各处呼求我们主耶稣基督之名的人；祂是他们的，也是我们的；
To the church of God which is in Corinth, to those who have been sanctified in Christ Jesus, the called saints, with all those who call upon the name of our Lord
Jesus Christ in every place, who is theirs and ours:
1:3 愿恩典与平安，从神我们的父，并主耶稣基督归与你们。
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1:4 我因神在基督耶稣里所赐给你们的恩典，常常为你们感谢我的神，
I thank my God always concerning you based upon the grace of God which was given to you in Christ Jesus,
1:5 因为你们在基督里，在一切的发表和知识上，样样都得以富足，
That in everything you were enriched in Him, in all utterance and all knowledge,
1:6 正如我们为基督所作的见证，在你们里面得以坚固，
Even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you,
1:7 以致你们在恩赐上一无所缺，热切等待我们主耶稣基督的显现；
So that you do not lack in any gift, eagerly awaiting the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ,
1:8 祂也必坚固你们到底，使你们在我们主耶稣基督的日子无可指责。
Who will also confirm you until the end unreprovable in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1:9 神是信实的，你们乃是为祂所召，进入了祂儿子我们主耶稣基督的交通。
God is faithful, through whom you were called into the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.
1:10 弟兄们，我藉我们主耶稣基督的名，恳求你们都说一样的话，你们中间也不可有分裂，只要在一样的心思和一样的意见里，彼此和谐。
Now I beseech you, brothers, through the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing and that there be no divisions among you, but that you
be attuned in the same mind and in the same opinion.
1:11 因为，我的弟兄们，革来氏家里的人曾对我提到你们的事，说你们中间有争竞。
For it has been made clear to me concerning you, my brothers, by those of the household of Chloe, that there are strifes among you.
1:12 我是说，你们各人说，我是属保罗的，我是属亚波罗的，我是属矶法的，我是属基督的。
Now I mean this, that each of you says, I am of Paul, and I of Apollos, and I of Cephas, and I of Christ.
1:13 基督是分开的么？保罗为你们钉了十字架么？或者你们是浸入保罗的名里么？
Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized into the name of Paul?
1:14 我感谢神，除了基利司布并该犹以外，我没有浸过你们一个人，
I thank God that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius,
1:15 免得有人说，你们是浸入我的名里。
That no one may say that you were baptized into my name.
1:16 我也浸过司提反家；此外浸过别人没有，我就记不得了。
And I did baptize the household of Stephanas also; beyond that I do not know if I baptized any other.
1:17 基督差遣我，原不是为施浸，乃是为传福音；并不用言论的智慧，免得基督的十字架落了空。
For Christ did not send me to baptize but to announce the gospel, not in wisdom of speech that the cross of Christ may not be made void.
1:18 因为十字架的话，对那正在灭亡的人为愚拙，对我们正在得救的人却为神的大能。
For the word of the cross is to those who are perishing foolishness, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God.
1:19 因为经上记着：“我要灭绝智慧人的智慧，废弃通达人的通达。”
For it is written, "I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the understanding of those who understand I will set aside.''
1:20 智慧人在哪里？经学家在哪里？这世代的辩士在哪里？神岂不是使世上的智慧成为愚拙么？
Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this age? Has not God made the wisdom of the world foolish?
1:21 既然照着神的智慧，世人凭自己的智慧，未曾认识神，神就乐意借着所传之事的愚拙，拯救那些信的人。
For since in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom did not know God, God was well pleased through the foolishness of the preaching to save those
who believe.
1:22 犹太人是求神迹，希利尼人是寻求智慧，
For indeed Jews require signs and Greeks seek wisdom,
1:23 我们却是传扬钉十字架的基督，对犹太人为绊脚石，对外邦人为愚拙；
But we preach Christ crucified, to Jews a stumbling block, and to Gentiles foolishness,
1:24 但对那蒙召的，无论是犹太人、或希利尼人，基督总是神的能力，神的智慧。
But to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God.
1:25 因神的愚拙总比人智慧，神的软弱总比人强壮。
Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men.
1:26 弟兄们，你们看你们蒙召的，按着肉体有智慧的不多，有能力的不多，出身尊高的也不多；
For consider your calling, brothers, that there are not many wise according to flesh, not many powerful, not many wellborn.
1:27 神却拣选了世上愚拙的，叫那有智慧的羞愧；神又拣选了世上软弱的，叫那强壮的羞愧；
But God has chosen the foolish things of the world that He might shame those who are wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world that He might
shame the things that are strong,
1:28 神也拣选了世上出身卑下的，以及被人藐视的，就是那些无有的，为要废掉那些有的，
And the lowborn things of the world and the despised things God has chosen, things which are not, that He might bring to nought the things which are,
1:29 使一切属肉体的人，在神面前都不能夸口。
So that no flesh may boast before God.
1082
1:30 但你们得在基督耶稣里，是出于神，这基督成了从神给我们的智慧：公义、圣别和救赎，
But of Him you are in Christ Jesus, who became wisdom to us from God: both righteousness and sanctification and redemption,
1:31 为使，如经上所记：“夸口的当在主里夸口。”
That as it is written, "He who boasts, let him boast in the Lord.''
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 2 章
2:1 弟兄们，从前我到你们那里去，并没有照着高超的言论或智慧，对你们宣传神的奥秘。
And I, when I came to you, brothers, came not according to excellence of speech or of wisdom, announcing to you the mystery of God.
2:2 因为我曾定了主意，在你们中间不知道别的，只知道耶稣基督，并这位钉十字架的。
For I did not determine to know anything among you except Jesus Christ, and this One crucified.
2:3 我在你们那里，又软弱，又惧怕，又甚战兢。
And I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling;
2:4 我说的话，讲的道，不是用智慧动听的言语，乃是用那灵和能力的明证，
And my speech and my proclamation were not in persuasive words of wisdom but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power,
2:5 叫你们的信不在于人的智慧，乃在于神的能力。
In order that your faith would not stand in the wisdom of men but in the power of God.
2:6 然而在长成的人中，我们也讲智慧，但不是这世代的智慧，也不是这世代有权有位正被废掉之人的智慧。
But we do speak wisdom among those who are full-grown, yet a wisdom not of this age nor of the rulers of this age, who are being brought to nought;
2:7 我们讲的，乃是从前所隐藏，神奥秘中的智慧，就是神在万世以前，为使我们得荣耀所预定的；
But we speak God's wisdom in a mystery, the wisdom which has been hidden, which God predestined before the ages for our glory,
2:8 这智慧，这世代有权有位的人，并没有一个知道，因为他们若知道，就不会把荣耀的主钉十字架了。
Which none of the rulers of this age have known; for if they had known, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory;
2:9 只是如经上所记：“神为爱祂的人所预备的，是眼睛未曾看见，耳朵未曾听见，人心也未曾想到的。”
But as it is written, "Things which eye has not seen and ear has not heard and which have not come up in man's heart; things which God has prepared for those
who love Him.''
2:10 但神借着那灵向我们启示了，因为那灵参透万事，甚至神的深奥也参透了。
But to us God has revealed them through the Spirit, for the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God.
2:11 因为除了在人里面人的灵，在人中间有谁知道人的事？照样，除了神的灵，也没有人知道神的事。
For who among men knows the things of man, except the spirit of man which is in him? In the same way, the things of God also no one has known except the
Spirit of God.
2:12 我们所领受的，并不是世上的灵，乃是那出于神的灵，使我们能知道神白白恩赐我们的事；
But we have received not the spirit of the world but the Spirit which is from God, that we may know the things which have been graciously given to us by God;
2:13 这些事我们也讲说，不是用人智慧所教导的言语，乃是用那灵所教导的言语，用属灵的话，解释属灵的事。
Which things also we speak, not in words taught by human wisdom but in words taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual things with spiritual words.
2:14 然而属魂的人不领受神的灵的事，因他以这些事为愚拙，并且他不能明白，因为这些事是凭灵看透的。
But a soulish man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him and he is not able to know them because they are discerned
spiritually.
2:15 惟有属灵的人看透万事，却没有一人看透他。
But the spiritual man discerns all things, but he himself is discerned by no one.
2:16 谁曾知道主的心思能教导祂？但我们是有基督的心思了。
For who has known the mind of the Lord and will instruct Him? But we have the mind of Christ.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 3 章
3:1 弟兄们，我从前对你们说话，不能把你们当作属灵的，只能当作属肉的，当作在基督里的婴孩。
And I, brothers, was not able to speak to you as to spiritual men, but as to fleshy, as to infants in Christ.
3:2 我给你们奶喝，没有给你们干粮，因为那时你们不能吃，就是如今还是不能，
I gave you milk to drink, not solid food, for you were not yet able to receive it. But neither yet now are you able,
3:3 因你们仍是属肉体的。因为在你们中间有嫉妒、争竞，你们岂不是属肉体，照着人的样子而行么？
For you are still fleshly. For if there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not fleshly and do you not walk according to the manner of man?
3:4 有的说，我是属保罗的，另有的说，我是属亚波罗的；你们岂不是属肉体的人么？
For when someone says, I am of Paul, and another, I of Apollos, are you not men of flesh?
3:5 亚波罗算什么？保罗算什么？照着主所赐给他们各人的，不过是执事，借着他们，你们信了。
What then is Apollos? And what is Paul? Ministers through whom you believed, even as the Lord gave to each one of them.
3:6 我栽种了，亚波罗浇灌了，惟有神叫他生长。
I planted, Apollos watered, but God caused the growth.
3:7 可见栽种的算不得什么，浇灌的也算不得什么，只在那叫他生长的神。
So then neither is he who plants anything nor he who waters, but God who causes the growth.
3:8 栽种的和浇灌的都是一样，但将来各人要照自己的劳苦，得自己的赏赐。
Now he who plants and he who waters are one, but each will receive his own reward according to his own labor.
3:9 因为我们是神的同工，你们是神的耕地，神的建筑。
For we are God's fellow workers; you are God's cultivated land, God's building.
3:10 我照神所给我的恩典，好像一个智慧的工头，立好了根基，有别人在上面建造，只是各人要谨慎怎样在上面建造。
1083
According to the grace of God given to me, as a wise master builder I have laid a foundation, and another builds upon it. But let each man take heed how he
builds upon it.
3:11 因为除了那已经立好的根基，就是耶稣基督以外，没有人能立别的根基。
For another foundation no one is able to lay besides that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ.
3:12 然而，若有人用金、银、宝石，木、草、禾秸，在这根基上建造，
But if anyone builds upon the foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, grass, stubble,
3:13 各人的工程必然显露，因为那日子要将它指明出来；它要在火中被揭露，这火要试验各人的工程是那一种的。
The work of each will become manifest; for the day will declare it, because it is revealed by fire, and the fire itself will prove each one's work, of what sort it is.
3:14 人在那根基上所建造的工程若存得住，他就要得赏赐。
If anyone's work which he has built upon the foundation remains, he will receive a reward;
3:15 人的工程若被烧毁，他就要受亏损，自己却要得救；只是这样得救，要像从火里经过的一样。
If anyone's work is consumed, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved, yet so as through fire.
3:16 岂不知你们是神的殿，神的灵住在你们里面么？
Do you not know that you are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwells in you?
3:17 若有人毁坏神的那殿，神必要毁坏这人，因为神的那殿是圣的，你们就是这殿。
If anyone destroys the temple of God, God will destroy him; for the temple of God is holy, and such are you.
3:18 人不可自欺；你们中间若有人自以为在这世代中有智慧，他就该变作愚拙，好成为有智慧的。
Let no one deceive himself; if anyone thinks that he is wise among you in this age, let him become foolish that he may become wise.
3:19 因这世界的智慧，在神看是愚拙，如经上记着：“主叫智慧的人中了自己的诡计。”
For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God; for it is written, "He grasps the wise in their craftiness'';
3:20 又说，“主知道智慧人的意念是虚空的。”
And again, "The Lord knows the reasonings of the wise, that they are vain.''
3:21 所以谁都不可拿人夸口，因为万有全是你们的，
So then let no one boast in men, for all things are yours,
3:22 或保罗、或亚波罗、或矶法、或世界、或生命、或死亡、或现今的事、或要来的事，全是你们的，
Whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or things present or things to come; all are yours,
3:23 但你们是基督的，基督又是神的。
But you are Christ's, and Christ is God's.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 4 章
4:1 这样，人应当把我们看作基督的执事，和神的奥秘的管家。
A man should account us in this way, as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.
4:2 还有，在此所求于管家的，是要他显为忠信。
Here, furthermore, it is sought in stewards that one be found faithful.
4:3 至于我被你们察验，或被人审判的日子察验，对我都是极小的事，连我也不察验自己。
But to me it is a very small thing that I should be examined by you or by man's day; rather I do not even examine myself.
4:4 我虽不觉得自己有错，却也不能因此得称义，但察验我的乃是主。
For I am conscious of nothing against myself; but I am not justified in this, but He who examines me is the Lord.
4:5 所以在那时以前，什么都不要论断，直等主来，祂要照出暗中的隐情，也要显明人心的意图，那时各人要从神那里得着称赞。
So then do not judge anything before the time, until the Lord comes, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness and make manifest the counsels of
the hearts, and then there will be praise to each from God.
4:6 弟兄们，我为你们的缘故，将这些事转比到自己和亚波罗身上，叫你们从我们学习不越过所写的，免得你们自高自大，高看这个，鄙视那个。
Now these things, brothers, I have transferred in figure to myself and Apollos for your sakes, that you may learn in us the matter of not going beyond what has
been written, that none of you may be puffed up on behalf of one, against the other.
4:7 使你与人不同的是谁？你有什么不是领受的？若真是领受的，你为什么夸口，仿佛不是领受的？
For who distinguishes you? And what do you have that you did not receive? And if you did receive it, why do you boast as though not having received it?
4:8 你们已经饱足了，已经丰富了，不用我们，自己就作王了。我巴不得你们果真作王，叫我们也得与你们一同作王。
Already you are filled; already you have become rich; you have reigned without us. And I would have it indeed that you did reign, that we also might reign with
you.
4:9 我想神把我们使徒显列在末后，好像定了死罪的人，因为我们对世界，就是对天使和世人，成了一台戏。
For, I think, God has set forth us the apostles last of all as doomed to death, because we have become a spectacle to the world, both to angels and to men.
4:10 我们为基督的缘故是愚拙的，你们在基督里倒是精明的；我们软弱，你们倒强壮；你们有荣耀，我们倒被轻视。
We are fools because of Christ, but you are prudent in Christ; we are weak, but you are strong; you are glorious, but we are dishonored.
4:11 直到今时，我们还是又饥，又渴，又赤身露体，又挨拳打，又居无定所；
Until the present hour we both hunger and thirst, and are naked and buffeted and wander without a home;
4:12 并且劳苦，亲手作工；被人咒骂，我们就祝福；被人逼迫，我们就忍受；
And we labor, working with our own hands. Reviled we bless; persecuted we endure;
4:13 被人毁谤，我们就善劝；我们成了世界上的污秽，万物中的渣滓，直到如今。
Defamed we exhort. We have become as the offscouring of the world, the scum of all things, until now.
4:14 我写这些话，不是羞辱你们，乃像劝戒我亲爱的儿女一样。
It is not to shame you that I write these things but to admonish you as my beloved children.
4:15 你们在基督里，纵有上万的导师，父亲却不多，因为是我在基督耶稣里借着福音生了你们。
For though you have ten thousand guides in Christ, yet you do not have many fathers; for in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the gospel.
4:16 所以我恳求你们要效法我。
1084
I exhort you therefore, Become imitators of me.
4:17 因此我已打发提摩太到你们那里去；他在主里是我所亲爱、忠信的孩子；他必提醒你们，我在基督耶稣里怎样行事，正如我在各处各召会中所教导的。
Because of this I have sent Timothy to you, who is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord, who will remind you of my ways which are in Christ, even as I teach
everywhere in every church.
4:18 有些人以为我不到你们那里去，就自高自大，
Now some have become puffed up as though I were not coming to you.
4:19 然而主若愿意，我必快到你们那里去；并且我所要知道的，不是那些自高自大之人的言语，乃是他们的能力。
But I will come to you shortly, if the Lord wills, and I will ascertain not the speech of those who are puffed up but the power.
4:20 因为神的国不在于言语，乃在于能力。
For the kingdom of God is not in speech but in power.
4:21 你们愿意怎么样？是要我带着刑杖，还是要我在爱和温柔的灵里，到你们那里去？
What do you want? Should I come to you with a rod or in love and a spirit of meekness?
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 5 章
5:1 确实听说在你们中间有淫乱的事，这样的淫乱，连外邦人中也没有，就是有人收了他的继母。
It is actually reported that there is fornication among you, and such fornication that does not even occur among the Gentiles, that someone has his stepmother.
5:2 你们还是自高自大！岂不应当哀恸，把行这事的人从你们中间挪开？
And you are puffed up? And have you not rather mourned, that the one who has done this deed might be removed from your midst?
5:3 我身体虽不在你们那里，灵却与你们同在，我已经审判了行这样事的人，好像与你们同在一样，
For I, on my part, though being absent in the body but present in the spirit, have already judged, as if being present, him who has thus done this,
5:4 就是当你们和我的灵聚集的时候，在我们主耶稣的名里，带同我们主耶稣的能力，
In the name of our Lord Jesus, when you and my spirit have been assembled, with the power of our Lord Jesus,
5:5 把这样的人交给撒但，使他的肉体受败坏，好叫他的灵在主的日子可以得救。
To deliver such a one to Satan for the destruction of his flesh, that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord.
5:6 你们夸口是不好的。岂不知一点面酵能使全团发起来么？
Your boasting is not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump?
5:7 你们要把旧酵除净，好使你们成为新团，正如你们是无酵的一样，因为我们的逾越节基督，已经被杀献祭了。
Purge out the old leaven that you may be a new lump, even as you are unleavened; for our Passover, Christ, also has been sacrificed.
5:8 所以我们守这节，不可用旧酵，也不可用恶毒邪恶的酵，只用纯诚真实的无酵饼。
So then let us keep the feast, not with old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice and evil, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.
5:9 我曾写信给你们说，不可与淫乱的人交往，
I wrote to you in my letter not to mingle with fornicators,
5:10 并不是指这世上所有行淫乱的、或贪婪的、或勒索的、或拜偶像的，若是那样，你们就需要离开世界。
But not altogether with the fornicators of this world, or with the covetous and rapacious, or idolaters, since then you would have to go out of the world.
5:11 但如今我写给你们说，若有人称为弟兄，是行淫乱的、或贪婪的、或拜偶像的、或辱骂的、或醉酒的、或勒索的，这样的人不可与他交往，甚至与他
一同吃饭都不可。
But now I have written to you not to mingle with anyone who is called a brother, if he is a fornicator or a covetous man or an idolater or a reviler or a drunkard or
a rapacious man, with such a one not even to eat.
5:12 因为审判召会外的人与我何干？召会里的人岂不是你们审判的么？
For what have I to do with judging those who are outside the church? Do you not judge those who are within the church?
5:13 至于召会外的人，有神审判他们。你们要把那恶人从你们中间挪开。
But those who are outside, God will judge. Remove the evil man from among yourselves.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 6 章
6:1 你们中间有人与别人起了相争的事，怎敢在不义的人面前，而不在圣徒面前求审？
Does any one of you who has a case against another dare to be judged before the unrighteous and not before the saints?
6:2 岂不知圣徒要审判世界么？若世界为你们所审判，难道你们不配审判这最小的事么？
Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is judged by you, are you unworthy of the smallest judgments?
6:3 岂不知我们要审判天使么？何况今生的事？
Do you not know that we will judge angels, not to mention things of this life?
6:4 既是这样，你们若有今生的事当上法庭，是派召会所不看为什么的人审判么？
If then you hold judgments over things of this life, do you seat as judges those who are of no account in the church?
6:5 我说这话，是要叫你们羞愧。难道你们中间竟没有一个智慧人，能在他弟兄中间审断么？
I say this to your shame. So there is no one wise among you, who will be able to discern between his brothers?
6:6 你们竟是弟兄与弟兄告状，而且告在不信的人面前。
But brother goes to court with brother, and this before unbelievers.
6:7 你们彼此争讼，这已全然是你们的失败了。为什么不宁愿受冤枉？为什么不宁愿被亏负？
Already then it is altogether a defeat to you that you have lawsuits with one another. Why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be defrauded?
6:8 你们倒是冤枉人，亏负人，况且这又是对弟兄。
But you wrong and defraud, and this your brothers.
6:9 你们岂不知，不义的不能承受神的国么？不要受迷惑，无论是淫乱的、拜偶像的、奸淫的、作娈童的、同性恋的、
1085
Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be led astray; neither fornicators nor idolaters nor adulterers nor effeminate
nor homosexuals
6:10 偷窃的、贪婪的、醉酒的、辱骂的、勒索的，都不能承受神的国。
Nor thieves nor the covetous, not drunkards, not revilers, not the rapacious will inherit the kingdom of God.
6:11 你们中间有人从前也是这样，但在主耶稣基督的名里，并在我们神的灵里，你们已经洗净了自己，已经圣别了，已经称义了。
And these things were some of you; but you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of
our God.
6:12 凡事我都可行，但不都有益处；凡事我都可行，但无论那一件，我总不受它的辖制。
All things are lawful to me, but not all things are profitable; all things are lawful to me, but I will not be brought under the power of anything.
6:13 食物是为肚腹，肚腹是为食物；但这两样，神都要废掉。可是身体不是为淫乱，乃是为主，主也是为身体。
Foods are for the stomach, and the stomach for foods; but God will bring to nought both it and them. But the body is not for fornication but for the Lord, and the
Lord for the body.
6:14 并且神已经使主复活，也必借着祂的能力，使我们复活起来。
And God has both raised up the Lord and will raise us up through His power.
6:15 岂不知你们的身体是基督的肢体么？我可以把基督的肢体作成娼妓的肢体么？绝对不可！
Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them members of a prostitute? Absolutely not!
6:16 岂不知与娼妓联合的，便是与她成为一体么？因为主说，“二人要成为一体。”
Or do you not know that he who is joined to a prostitute is one body? For He says, "The two shall be one flesh.''
6:17 但与主联合的，便是与主成为一灵。
But he who is joined to the Lord is one spirit.
6:18 你们要逃避淫乱。人所犯的，无论什么罪，都在身体以外，惟有行淫的，是得罪自己的身体。
Flee fornication. Every sin which a man may do is outside the body, but he who commits fornication sins against his own body.
6:19 岂不知你们的身体，就是在你们里面之圣灵的殿么？这圣灵是你们从神而得的，并且你们不是属自己的，
Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own?
6:20 因为你们是重价买来的。这样，就要在你们的身体上荣耀神。
For you have been bought with a price. So then glorify God in your body.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 7 章
7:1 关于你们所写的，我认为男不近女倒好，
Now concerning the things of which you wrote: It is good for a man not to touch a woman.
7:2 但为避免淫乱，男人当各有自己的妻子，女人也当各有自己的丈夫。
But because of fornication, let each man have his own wife, and let each woman have her own husband.
7:3 丈夫对妻子当尽应尽之分，妻子对丈夫也要如此。
Let the husband render to his wife that which is due, and likewise also the wife to the husband.
7:4 妻子对自己的身体没有主权，丈夫才有；照样，丈夫对自己的身体也没有主权，妻子才有。
The wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does; and likewise the husband also does not have authority over his own body, but the
wife does.
7:5 你们不可彼此亏负，除非出于同意，暂时分房，为要专心祷告，以后仍要同房，免得撒但因你们不能自制，试诱你们。
Do not deprive each other, except by agreement for a time that you may devote yourselves to prayer, and then be together again, that Satan may not tempt you
because of your lack of self-control.
7:6 我说这话，是容许你们，并不是命令。
But this I say by way of concession, not by way of command.
7:7 我愿意众人都像我一样；只是各人都有自己从神得来的恩赐，有人是这样，有人是那样。
Yet I wish all men to be even as I am myself; but each has his own gift from God, one in this way, the other in that.
7:8 我对未婚的和寡妇说，若他们常像我就好。
But I say to the unmarried and to the widows, It is good for them if they remain even as I am.
7:9 但他们若不能自制，就可以嫁娶，与其欲火中烧，倒不如嫁娶为妙。
But if they do not have self-control, let them marry; for it is better to marry than to burn with desire.
7:10 至于那已婚的，我吩咐他们，其实不是我吩咐，乃是主吩咐，说，妻子不可离开丈夫。
But to the married I charge, not I but the Lord, A wife must not be separated from her husband
7:11 （若真是离开了，她就不可再嫁，不然，仍要同丈夫和好。）丈夫也不可离弃妻子。
(But if indeed she is separated, let her remain unmarried or be reconciled to her husband), and a husband must not leave his wife.
7:12 我对其余的人说，不是主说，倘若某弟兄有不信的妻子，妻子也情愿和他同住，他就不要离弃妻子；
But to the rest I say, I, not the Lord, If any brother has an unbelieving wife and she consents to dwell with him, he must not leave her;
7:13 妻子有不信的丈夫，丈夫也情愿和她同住，她就不要离弃丈夫。
And a wife who has an unbelieving husband, and if he consents to dwell with her, must not leave her husband.
7:14 因为不信的丈夫，就因着妻子被圣别，并且不信的妻子，也因着弟兄被圣别；不然，你们的儿女就不洁净，但如今他们是圣别的了。
For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the brother; otherwise your children are unclean, but now they are
holy.
7:15 倘若那不信的人离去，就由他离去吧；无论是弟兄、是姊妹，在这种情形之下，都不必受束缚，然而神已经在平安里召了我们。
But if the unbelieving one separates, let him separate; the brother or the sister is not enslaved in such cases, but God has called us in peace.
7:16 况且你这作妻子的，怎么知道能不能救你的丈夫？你这作丈夫的，怎么知道能不能救你的妻子？
For how do you know, O wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, O husband, whether you will save your wife?
7:17 只要照主所分给各人的，和神所召各人的而行。我在众召会中都是这样吩咐。
1086
However as the Lord has apportioned to each one, as God has called each one, so let him walk. And so I direct in all the churches.
7:18 有人蒙召时已受割礼，就不要回复原状；有人蒙召时未受割礼，就不要受割礼。
Was anyone called having been circumcised? He need not efface it. Has anyone been called in uncircumcision? He need not be circumcised.
7:19 受割礼算不得什么，不受割礼也算不得什么，只有遵守神的诫命才算得数。
Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but the keeping of God's commandments is what counts.
7:20 各人在什么身分里蒙召，仍要留于这身分。
Each one, in the calling in which he was called, in this let him remain.
7:21 你是一个奴仆蒙召么？不要在意；但即使你能自由，也宁可仍用奴仆的身分。
Were you called as a slave? Let it not concern you; but even if you are able to become free, use your status as a slave rather.
7:22 因为一个奴仆在主里蒙召，就是属于主得自由的人；照样，一个自由的人蒙召，就是基督的奴仆。
For the slave who has been called in the Lord is the Lord's freedman; likewise the free man who has been called is Christ's slave.
7:23 你们是重价买来的，不要作人的奴仆。
You were bought with a price; do not be slaves of men.
7:24 弟兄们，你们各人是在什么身分里蒙召，仍要与神一同留在这身分里。
Each one, brothers, in what status he was called, in this let him remain with God.
7:25 关于童身的人，我没有主的命令，但我既蒙主怜悯成为忠信的，就提出我的意见。
Now concerning virgins I have no commandment of the Lord, but I give my opinion as one who has been shown mercy by the Lord to be faithful.
7:26 因现今的艰难，我以为人最好保持现状。
I consider then that this is good because of the present necessity, that it is good for a man to be as he is.
7:27 你有妻子束缚着么？就不要寻求脱离。你没有妻子束缚着么？就不要寻求妻子。
Have you been bound to a wife? Do not seek a release. Have you been released from a wife? Do not seek a wife.
7:28 但你若娶妻，也不是犯罪；处女若出嫁，也不是犯罪；然而这等人肉身必受苦难，我却愿意你们免受这苦难。
But even if you do marry, you have not sinned; and if the virgin marries, she has not sinned; but such ones will have affliction in the flesh, and I am trying to spare
you.
7:29 只是弟兄们，我对你们说，时候缩短了。从此以后，那有妻子的，要像没有妻子；
But this I say, brothers, the time is shortened. Henceforth both those who have wives should be as though they had none,
7:30 哀哭的，要像不哀哭；喜乐的，要像不喜乐；置买的，要像无所拥有；
And those who weep as though they did not weep, and those who rejoice as though they did not rejoice, and those who buy as though they did not possess,
7:31 使用世物的，要像不浪费使用；因这世界的样子正在逝去。
And those who use the world as though they did not abuse it; for the fashion of this world is passing away.
7:32 我愿你们无所挂虑。没有娶妻的，是为主的事挂虑，想怎样讨主喜悦；
But I desire you to be without care. The unmarried cares for the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord;
7:33 娶了妻的，是为世上的事挂虑，想怎样讨妻子喜悦，就分心了。
But he who has married cares for the things of the world, how he may please his wife,
7:34 未结婚的妇女和守童身的女子，是为着主的事挂虑，要在身体和灵上都圣别；已经出嫁的，是为世上的事挂虑，想怎样讨丈夫喜悦。
And is distracted. Both the unmarried woman and the virgin care for the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and in spirit; but she who has
married cares for the things of the world, how she may please her husband.
7:35 我说这话，是为你们自己的益处；不是要牢笼你们，乃是要叫你们行合宜的事，得以殷勤服事主，没有分心的事。
But this I say for your own profit, not that I may put a noose upon you but that you may be comely and may wait on the Lord without distraction.
7:36 若有人以为待他的童身女儿不合宜，她也过了华龄，事又当行，他就可随愿办理，不是犯罪，让他们结婚。
But if anyone thinks that he is behaving unbecomingly to his virgin daughter, if she is past the bloom of youth and thus it must be so, let him do what he wishes,
he does not sin; let them marry.
7:37 但他若心里坚定，没有不得已的事，对自己的意思又有主权，心里也决定了留下自己的童身女儿，如此行也好。
But he who stands firm in his heart, being under no constraint, and has authority with respect to his own will and has decided this in his own heart, to keep his
own virgin daughter, he will do well.
7:38 这样看来，叫自己的童身女儿出嫁是好，不叫她出嫁更是好。
So then both he who gives his own virgin daughter in marriage does well, and he who does not give her in marriage will do better.
7:39 丈夫活着的时候，妻子是被束缚的；丈夫若睡了，妻子就可以自由，随愿嫁人，只是要嫁在主里的人。
A wife is bound for so long a time as her husband lives; but should the husband fall asleep, she is free to be married to whom she wishes, only to one in the Lord.
7:40 然而，按我的意见，她若守节更是有福；但我想我也有神的灵了。
But she is more blessed if she so remains, according to my opinion; but I think that I also have the Spirit of God.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 8 章
8:1 关于祭偶像之物，我们晓得我们都有知识。知识是叫人自高自大，惟有爱建造人。
Now concerning things sacrificed to idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but love builds up.
8:2 若有人自以为知道什么，按他所当知道的，他仍是不知道；
If anyone thinks that he knows anything, he has not yet come to know as he ought to know;
8:3 但若有人爱神，这人乃是神所知道的。
But if anyone loves God, this one is known by Him.
8:4 关于吃祭偶像之物，我们晓得偶像在世上算不得什么，也晓得神只有一位，再没有别的神。
Therefore concerning the eating of things sacrificed to idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world and that there is no God but one.
8:5 纵然有称为神的，或在天，或在地，就如那许多的神，许多的主，
For even if there are so-called gods, either in heaven or on earth, even as there are many gods and many lords,
8:6 在我们却只有一位神，就是父，万物都本于祂，我们也归于祂；并有一位主，就是耶稣基督，万物都是借着祂有的，我们也是借着祂有的。
1087
Yet to us there is one God, the Father, out from whom are all things, and we are unto Him; and one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom are all things, and we are
through Him.
8:7 然而人不都有这等知识；有人直到如今还带着拜偶像的习惯感，就以为所吃的是祭偶像之物；他们的良心既然软弱，就受了玷污。
But this knowledge is not in all men; but some, being accustomed to the idol until now, eat the food as an idol sacrifice, and their conscience, being weak, is
defiled.
8:8 其实食物不能将我们荐与神，因为我们不吃也无亏缺，吃也无盈超。
But food will not commend us to God; neither if we do not eat are we lacking, nor if we eat do we abound.
8:9 只是你们要谨慎，恐怕你们这权利，竟成了那软弱人的绊脚石。
But beware lest somehow this right of yours become a stumbling block to the weak ones.
8:10 若有人见你这有知识的，在偶像的庙里坐席，这人既是软弱的，他的良心岂不放胆去吃那祭偶像之物么？
For if anyone sees you who have knowledge reclining at table in an idol temple, will not his conscience, if he is weak, be emboldened to eat the things sacrificed
to the idols?
8:11 因此，基督为他死的那软弱弟兄，也就被你的知识败坏了。
For the one who is weak is being destroyed by your knowledge, the brother because of whom Christ died.
8:12 你们这样得罪弟兄们，伤了他们软弱的良心，就是得罪基督。
And sinning in this way against the brothers and wounding their weak conscience, you sin against Christ.
8:13 所以食物若真绊跌我的弟兄，我就绝不吃肉直到永远，免得绊跌我的弟兄。
Therefore if food stumbles my brother, I shall by no means eat meat forever, that I may not stumble my brother.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 9 章
9:1 我不是自由的么？我不是使徒么？我不是见过我们的主耶稣么？你们不是我在主里所作之工么？
Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord?
9:2 若是对别人我不是使徒，对你们我总是使徒，因为你们在主里正是我使徒职分的印记。
If to others I am not an apostle, yet surely I am to you; for you in the Lord are the seal of my apostleship.
9:3 我对那查问我的人，就是这样分诉。
My defense to those who examine me is this.
9:4 难道我们没有权利吃喝么？
Do we not have a right to eat and to drink?
9:5 难道我们没有权利带着为妻子的姊妹往来，仿佛其余的使徒，和主的兄弟，并矶法一样么？
Do we not have a right to take along a sister as a wife, even as the rest of the apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas?
9:6 独有我与巴拿巴没有权利不作工么？
Or do only I and Barnabas not have the right not to work?
9:7 有谁当兵，曾自备粮饷？有谁栽种葡萄园，不吃园中的果子？有谁牧养羊群，不吃羊群的奶？
What soldier ever serves by his own wages? Who plants a vineyard and does not partake of its fruit? Or who shepherds a flock and does not partake of the milk
of the flock?
9:8 我说这话，岂是照着人的看法么？律法不也是这样说么？
Am I speaking these things according to man? Or does the law not also say these things?
9:9 在摩西的律法上记着：“牛踹谷的时候，不可笼住它的嘴。”难道神所关心的是牛么？
For in the law of Moses it is written: "You shall not muzzle the ox while it is treading out the grain.'' Is it for oxen that God cares?
9:10 还是全为我们说的？的确是为我们写的，因为耕种的当存着指望去耕种，打场的也当存着分享的指望去打场。
Or does He say it altogether for our sake? Yes, for our sake it was written because the plowman should plow in hope, and he who threshes, in hope of partaking.
9:11 我们若把属灵之物撒给你们，就是从你们收割肉身之物，这还算大事么？
If we have sown to you the spiritual things, is it a great thing if we shall reap from you the fleshly things?
9:12 若别人在你们身上分享这权利，何况我们？然而我们没有用过这权利，倒凡事忍受，免得基督的福音受到任何拦阻。
If others partake of this right over you, should not rather we? Yet we did not use this right, but we bear all things that we may not cause any hindrance to the
gospel of Christ.
9:13 你们岂不知为圣事劳碌的，就吃殿中之物么？伺候祭坛的，就同祭坛分领坛上的祭物么？
Do you not know that those who labor on the sacred things eat the things of the sacred temple, that those who attend to the altar have their portion with the altar?
9:14 主也是这样命定，叫宣传福音的靠福音养生。
So also the Lord directed those who announce the gospel to live from the gospel.
9:15 但这些权利我全没有用过；我写这些话，并非要你们这样待我，因为我宁可死，也不─没有人能使我所夸的落了空。
But I myself have not used any of these things; and I have not written these things that it may be so with me; for it is good for me rather to die than -- No one
shall make my boast void.
9:16 我若传福音，于我原没有可夸的，因为我是不得已的。若不传福音，我便有祸了。
For if I preach the gospel, I have no boast, for necessity is laid upon me; for woe to me if I do not preach the gospel.
9:17 我若甘心作这事，就有赏赐；若不甘心，管家的职分却已经托付我了。
If I do this of my own will, I have a reward; but if not of my own will, I am entrusted with a stewardship.
9:18 这样，我的赏赐是什么？就是在传福音上，我免费供应福音，免得用尽我在福音上的权利。
What then is my reward? That in preaching the gospel I may present the gospel without charge, so as not to use to the full my right in the gospel.
9:19 我虽从众人得了自由，却自愿奴役于众人，为要多得人。
For though I am free from all, I have enslaved myself to all that I might gain the more.
9:20 向犹太人，我就作犹太人，为要得犹太人；向律法之下的人，我就作律法之下的人，（虽然我自己不在律法之下，）为要得律法之下的人；
And to the Jews I became as a Jew in order that I might gain Jews; to those under law, as under law (though I myself am not under law), that I might gain those
under law.
1088
9:21 向律法之外的人，我就作律法之外的人，（对神，我不是在律法之外，反而对基督，我是在律法之内，）为要得律法之外的人。
To those without law, as without law (though I am not without law to God but within law to Christ), that I might gain those without law.
9:22 向软弱的人，我就成为软弱的，为要得软弱的人。向众人，我成了众人所是的；无论如何，总要救些人。
To the weak I became weak that I might gain the weak. To all men I have become all things that I might by all means save some.
9:23 凡我所行的，都是为福音的缘故，为要与人同享这福音。
And I do all things for the sake of the gospel that I may become a fellow partaker of it.
9:24 岂不知在场上赛跑的都跑，但得奖赏的只有一人？你们应当这样跑，好叫你们得着奖赏。
Do you not know that those who run on a racecourse all run, but one receives the prize? Run in this way, that you may lay hold.
9:25 凡较力争胜的，诸事都有节制；他们不过是要得能坏的华冠，我们却是要得不能坏的华冠。
And everyone who contends exercises self-control in all things; they then, that they may receive a corruptible crown, but we, an incorruptible.
9:26 所以我这样奔跑，不像无定向的；我这样斗拳，不像打空气的；
I therefore run in this way, not as though without a clear aim; I box in this way, not as though beating the air;
9:27 我乃是痛击己身，叫身为奴，免得我传给别人，自己反不蒙称许。
But I buffet my body and make it my slave, lest perhaps having preached to others, I myself may become disapproved.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 10 章
10:1 因为弟兄们，我不愿意你们不知道，我们的祖宗从前都在云下，都从海中经过；
For I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, that all our fathers were under the cloud, and all passed through the sea;
10:2 都在云里，也在海里，受浸归了摩西；
And all were baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea;
10:3 并且都吃了一样的灵食，
And all ate the same spiritual food,
10:4 也都喝了一样的灵水；所喝的是出于随行的灵磐石，那磐石就是基督。
And all drank the same spiritual drink; for they drank of a spiritual rock which followed them, and the rock was Christ.
10:5 但他们大多数的人，神并不喜悦，因此他们倒毙在旷野。
But with most of them God was not well pleased, for they were strewn along in the wilderness.
10:6 这些事都是我们的鉴戒，叫我们不作贪恋恶事的人，像他们那样贪恋。
Now these things occurred as examples to us, that we should not be ones who lust after evil things, even as they also lusted.
10:7 也不要作拜偶像的人，像他们有些人那样；如经上所记：“百姓坐下吃喝，起来玩耍。”
Neither become idolaters, as some of them did; as it is written, "The people sat down to eat and drink, and stood up to play.''
10:8 我们也不要行淫，像他们有些人行的，一天就倒毙了二万三千人。
Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed fornication, and there fell in one day twenty-three thousand.
10:9 我们也不要试探基督，像他们有些人试探的，就被蛇所灭。
Neither let us test Christ, as some of them tested Him and were destroyed by the serpents.
10:10 你们也不要发怨言，像他们有些人发的，就被灭命的所灭。
Neither murmur, just as some of them murmured and perished by the destroyer.
10:11 这些发生在他们身上的事，都是鉴戒，并且写在经上，正是为警戒我们这生在诸世代终局的人。
Now these things happened to them as an example, and they were written for our admonition, unto whom the ends of the ages have come.
10:12 所以自以为站得稳的，要谨慎，免得跌倒。
So then let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall.
10:13 那临到你们的试诱，无非是人所能受的；神是信实的，必不容你们受试诱过于所能受的，祂也必随着试诱开一条出路，叫你们能忍受得住。
No temptation has taken you except that which is common to man; and God is faithful, who will not allow that you be tempted beyond what you are able, but will,
with the temptation, also make the way out, that you may be able to endure it.
10:14 所以，我所亲爱的，你们要逃避拜偶像的事。
Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.
10:15 我好像对精明人说的，你们要审断我所说的。
I speak as to prudent men; you judge what I say.
10:16 我们所祝福的福杯，岂不是基督之血的交通么？我们所擘开的饼，岂不是基督身体的交通么？
The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the fellowship of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the fellowship of the body of Christ?
10:17 因着只有一个饼，我们虽多，还是一个身体，因我们都分受这一个饼。
Seeing that there is one bread, we who are many are one Body; for we all partake of the one bread.
10:18 你们看那按着肉体是以色列人的，那些吃祭物的，岂不是与祭坛交通的人么？
Look at Israel according to the flesh. Are not those who eat the sacrifices those who have fellowship with the altar?
10:19 这样，我是怎么说的？岂是说祭偶像之物算得什么？或是说偶像算得什么？
What then am I saying? That what is sacrificed to an idol is anything? Or that an idol is anything?
10:20 我乃是说，外邦人所献的祭，是祭鬼，不是祭神；我不愿意你们成为与鬼交通的人。
No, but that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons and not to God; and I do not want you to become those who have fellowship with
demons.
10:21 你们不能喝主的杯，又喝鬼的杯；不能有分于主的筵席，又有分于鬼的筵席。
You cannot drink the Lord's cup and the demons' cup; you cannot partake of the Lord's table and of the demons' table.
10:22 我们可惹主的妒忌么？难道我们比祂还强么？
Or do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than He?
10:23 凡事都可行，但不都有益处；凡事都可行，但不都建造人。
All things are lawful, but not all things are profitable; all things are lawful, but not all things build up.
1089
10:24 无论何人，不要寻求自己的益处，乃要寻求别人的益处。
Let no one seek his own profit, but that of the other.
10:25 凡肉市上所卖的，你们只管吃，不要为良心的缘故查问什么，
Everything sold in a meat market eat, asking no questions for conscience' sake;
10:26 因为地和地的丰满，都属于主。
For the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof.
10:27 若有不信的人请你们，你们也愿意去，凡摆在你们面前的，只管吃，不要为良心的缘故查问什么。
If any of the unbelievers invites you and you wish to go, eat everything that is set before you, asking no question for conscience' sake.
10:28 但若有人对你们说，这是献过祭的物，就要为那指出的人，并为良心的缘故，不吃；
But if anyone says to you, This has been offered in sacrifice, do not eat, for his sake who pointed it out and for conscience' sake.
10:29 我说的良心，不是你自己的，乃是别人的。我这自由为什么被别人的良心审判？
Conscience, I say, not your own, but the other's. For why is my freedom judged by some other conscience?
10:30 我若感恩着分受，为什么在我所感谢的物上被人毁谤？
If I partake with thankfulness, why am I spoken evil of concerning that for which I give thanks?
10:31 所以你们或吃、或喝、或作什么事，一切都要为荣耀神而行。
Therefore whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God.
10:32 不拘对犹太人，对希利尼人，对神的召会，你们都不要成为绊脚石；
Do not become a stumbling block, both to Jews and to Greeks and to the church of God;
10:33 就好像我也凡事叫众人喜悦，不寻求自己的益处，只寻求多人的益处，叫他们可以得救。
Even as I also please all men in all things, not seeking my own advantage but that of the many, that they may be saved.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 11 章
11:1 你们要效法我，像我效法基督一样。
Be imitators of me, as I also am of Christ.
11:2 但我称赞你们，因你们凡事记念我，又照着所交付给你们的，坚守我所传授的。
But I praise you because in all things you have remembered me and hold fast the things that I have handed down even as I handed them down to you.
11:3 我且愿意你们知道，基督是各人的头，男人是女人的头，神是基督的头。
But I want you to know that Christ is the head of every man, and the man is the head of the woman, and God is the head of Christ.
11:4 凡男人祷告，或是申言，若蒙着头，就羞辱自己的头。
Every man praying or prophesying with his head covered disgraces his head.
11:5 但凡女人祷告，或是申言，若不蒙着头，就羞辱自己的头，因为这就如同剃了头发一样。
But every woman praying or prophesying with her head uncovered disgraces her head; for it is one and the same as she who is shaved.
11:6 女人若不蒙着头，就该剪了头发；女人若以剪发或剃发为羞愧，就该把自己蒙起来。
For if a woman is not covered, let her hair also be cut off; but if it is shameful for a woman to have her hair cut off or to be shaved, let her be covered.
11:7 男人既是神的形像和荣耀，就不该蒙着头，但女人是男人的荣耀。
For a man ought not to have his head covered, since he is God's image and glory; but the woman is the glory of the man.
11:8 男人原不是由女人而出，女人却是由男人而出，
For man is not out of woman, but woman out of man;
11:9 并且男人不是为着女人创造的，女人却是为着男人创造的。
For also man was not created for the sake of the woman, but woman for the sake of the man.
11:10 因此，女人为着天使的缘故，应当在头上有服权柄的表记。
Therefore the woman ought to have a sign of submission to authority on her head for the sake of the angels.
11:11 然而在主里面，女也不是无男，男也不是无女。
However neither is woman without man, nor man without woman, in the Lord.
11:12 因为女人怎样出于男人，照样，男人也是借着女人，但万有都是出于神。
For just as the woman is out from the man, so also is the man through the woman; but all things are out from God.
11:13 你们自己里面审断：女人祷告神不蒙着头，是合宜的么？
Judge this in your own selves: Is it fitting for a woman to pray uncovered to God?
11:14 你们的本性岂不也教导你们，男人若有长头发，便是他的羞辱，
Does not even nature itself teach you that if a man has long hair, it is a dishonor to him,
11:15 而女人有长头发，乃是她的荣耀么？因为这长头发是给她作盖头的。
But if a woman has long hair, it is a glory to her, because her long hair has been given to her for a covering.
11:16 若有人想要强辩，我们却没有这样的规矩，神的众召会也没有。
But if anyone seems to be contentious, we do not have such a custom of being so, neither the churches of God.
11:17 然而，我要吩咐一事，并不是称赞你们，因为你们聚在一起，不是受益，乃是招损。
But I give you this charge and do not praise you, because you come together not for the better but for the worse.
11:18 第一，我听说你们在召会中聚在一起的时候，你们中间有分裂，我也有几分相信。
For first of all, when you come together in the church, I hear that divisions exist among you; and some part of it I believe.
11:19 在你们中间不免有派别，好叫那些蒙称许的人在你们中间显明出来。
For there must even be parties among you, that those who are approved may become manifest among you.
11:20 你们聚在一处的时候，并不是吃主的晚餐，
When therefore you come together in the same place, it is not to eat the Lord's supper;
11:21 因为吃的时候，各人先吃自己的饭，甚至这个饥饿，那个酒醉。
For in your eating, each one takes his own supper first, and one is hungry and the other is drunk.
1090
11:22 你们要吃喝，难道没有家么？还是你们藐视神的召会，羞辱那无有的？我对你们可怎么说？可称赞你们么？在这事上我不称赞。
Do you not have houses to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God and put those to shame who have not? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise
you? In this I do not praise you.
11:23 我从主领受又交付你们的，就是主耶稣被出卖的那一夜，拿起饼来，
For I received from the Lord that which also I delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus in the night in which He was betrayed took bread,
11:24 祝谢了，就擘开，说，这是我的身体，为你们舍的，你们要如此行，为的是记念我。
And having given thanks, He broke it and said, This is My body, which is given for you; this do unto the remembrance of Me.
11:25 饭后，也照样拿起杯来，说，这杯是用我的血所立的新约，你们每逢喝的时候，要如此行，为的是记念我。
Similarly also the cup after they had dined, saying, This cup is the new covenant established in My blood; this do, as often as you drink it, unto the remembrance
of Me.
11:26 你们每逢吃这饼，喝这杯，是宣告主的死，直等到祂来。
For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you declare the Lord's death until He comes.
11:27 所以无论何人，不配的吃主的饼，喝主的杯，就是得罪主的身体和主的血了。
So then whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and of the blood of the Lord.
11:28 人应当察验自己，然后吃这饼，喝这杯。
But let a man prove himself, and in this way let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup.
11:29 因为那吃喝的，若不分辨那身体，就是给自己吃喝审判了。
For he who eats and drinks, eats and drinks judgment to himself if he does not discern the body.
11:30 因此，在你们中间有好些软弱的与患病的，睡的也不少。
Because of this many among you are weak and sick, and a number sleep.
11:31 但我们若分辨自己，就不至于受审判。
But if we discerned ourselves, we would not be judged.
11:32 我们受主审判，乃是受管教，免得我们和世人同被定罪。
But being judged by the Lord, we are disciplined that we may not be condemned with the world.
11:33 所以我弟兄们，你们聚在一起吃的时候，要彼此等待。
So then, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for one another.
11:34 若有人饥饿，就当在家里吃，免得你们聚在一起受到审判。其余的事，我来的时候再安排。
If anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, that you may not come together for judgment. And the rest I will set in order when I come.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 12 章
12:1 弟兄们，关于属灵的恩赐，我不愿意你们不明白。
Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not want you to be ignorant.
12:2 你们作外邦人的时候，无论何时不论怎样受到带领，你们就被带走，去拜那不能出声的偶像，这是你们知道的。
You know that when you were Gentiles, you were always being led away to dumb idols, whenever and however you were led.
12:3 所以我要你们知道，在神的灵里说话的，没有人说，受咒诅的，耶稣！若不是在圣灵里，也没有人能说，主，耶稣！
Therefore I make known to you that no one speaking in the Spirit of God says, Jesus is accursed; and no one can say, Jesus is Lord! except in the Holy Spirit.
12:4 然而，恩赐虽有分别，灵却是同一位；
But there are distinctions of gifts, but the same Spirit;
12:5 职事也有分别，主却是同一位；
And there are distinctions of ministries, yet the same Lord;
12:6 功效也有分别，神却是同一位，在众人里面运行一切的事。
And there are distinctions of operations, but the same God, who operates all things in all.
12:7 只是那灵的表显赐给各人，是要叫人得益处。
But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for what is profitable.
12:8 这人借着那灵得了智慧的言语，那人也照同一位灵得了知识的言语，
For to one through the Spirit a word of wisdom is given, and to another a word of knowledge, according to the same Spirit;
12:9 另有别人在同一位灵里得了信心，还有一人在这一位灵里得了医病的恩赐，
To a different one faith in the same Spirit, and to another gifts of healing in the one Spirit,
12:10 另有一人能行异能，另有一人能申言，另有一人能辨别诸灵，另有别人能说各种方言，另有一人能翻方言。
And to another operations of works of power, and to another prophecy, and to another discerning of spirits; to a different one various kinds of tongues, and to
another interpretation of tongues.
12:11 但这一切都是这位独一且同一的灵所运行，照着祂的定意个别分给各人的。
But the one and the same Spirit operates all these things, distributing to each one respectively even as He purposes.
12:12 就如身体是一个，却有许多肢体，而且身体上一切的肢体虽多，仍是一个身体，基督也是这样。
For even as the body is one and has many members, yet all the members of the body, being many, are one body, so also is the Christ.
12:13 因为我们不拘是犹太人或希利尼人，是为奴的或自主的，都已经在一位灵里受浸，成了一个身体，且都得以喝一位灵。
For also in one Spirit we were all baptized into one Body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, and were all given to drink one Spirit.
12:14 身体原不是一个肢体，乃是许多肢体。
For the body is not one member but many.
12:15 倘若脚说，我不是手，所以不属于身体，它不能因此就不属于身体。
If the foot should say, Because I am not a hand, I am not of the body, it is not that because of this it is not of the body.
12:16 倘若耳说，我不是眼，所以不属于身体，它也不能因此就不属于身体。
And if the ear should say, Because I am not an eye, I am not of the body, it is not that because of this it is not of the body.
12:17 若全身是眼，听觉在那里？若全身是听觉，嗅觉在那里？
1091
If the whole body were an eye, where would the hearing be? If the whole were the hearing, where would the smelling be?
12:18 但如今神照着自己的意思，把肢体俱各安置在身体上了。
But now God has placed the members, each one of them, in the body, even as He willed.
12:19 若都是一个肢体，身体在那里？
And if all were one member, where would the body be?
12:20 但如今肢体是多的，身体却是一个。
But now the members are many, but the body one.
12:21 眼不能对手说，我不需要你；头也不能对脚说，我不需要你。
And the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you; nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you.
12:22 不但如此，身上肢体似乎较为软弱的，更是不可少的；
But much rather the members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary.
12:23 身上肢体我们以为比较不体面的，就给它加上更丰盈的体面；我们不俊美的肢体，就得着更丰盈的俊美；
And those members of the body which we consider to be less honorable, these we clothe with more abundant honor; and our uncomely members come to have
more abundant comeliness,
12:24 至于我们俊美的肢体，就不需要了。但神将这身体调和在一起，把更丰盈的体面加给那有缺欠的肢体，
But our comely members have no need. But God has blended the body together, giving more abundant honor to the member that lacked,
12:25 免得身体上有了分裂，总要肢体彼此同样相顾。
That there would be no division in the body, but that the members would have the same care for one another.
12:26 若一个肢体受苦，所有的肢体就一同受苦；若一个肢体得荣耀，所有的肢体就一同欢乐。
And whether one member suffers, all the members suffer with it; or one member is glorified, all the members rejoice with it.
12:27 你们就是基督的身体，并且各自作肢体。
Now you are the Body of Christ, and members individually.
12:28 神在召会中所设立的，第一是使徒，第二是申言者，第三是教师；其次是行异能的，再次是得恩赐医病的，帮助的，治理的，说各种方言的。
And God has placed some in the church: first apostles, second prophets, third teachers; then works of power, then gifts of healing, helps, administrations, various
kinds of tongues.
12:29 岂都是使徒么？岂都是申言者么？岂都是教师么？岂都是行异能的么？
Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all have works of power?
12:30 岂都有医病的恩赐么？岂都说方言么？岂都翻方言么？
Do all have gifts of healing? Do all speak in tongues? Do all interpret tongues?
12:31 但你们要切慕那更大的恩赐。我还要把极超越的路指示你们。
But earnestly desire the greater gifts. And moreover I show to you a most excellent way.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 13 章
13:1 我若能说人和天使的方言，却没有爱，我就成了鸣的锣、响的钹。
If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels but do not have love, I have become sounding brass or a clanging cymbal.
13:2 我若有申言的恩赐，也明白一切的奥秘，和一切的知识，并有全备的信，以致能够移山，却没有爱，我就算不得什么。
And if I have the gift of prophecy and know all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith so as to remove mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing.
13:3 我若将我一切所有的变卖为食物分给人吃，又舍己身叫我可以夸口，却没有爱，仍然与我无益。
And if I dole out all my possessions to feed others, and if I deliver up my body that I may boast, but do not have love, I profit nothing.
13:4 爱是恒久忍耐，又有恩慈；爱是不嫉妒；爱是不自夸，不张狂，
Love suffers long. Love is kind; it is not jealous. Love does not brag and is not puffed up;
13:5 不作不合宜的事，不求自己的益处，不轻易发怒，不计算人的恶，
It does not behave unbecomingly and does not seek its own things; it is not provoked and does not take account of evil;
13:6 不因不义而欢乐，却与真理同欢乐；
It does not rejoice because of unrighteousness, but rejoices with the truth;
13:7 凡事包容，凡事相信，凡事盼望，凡事忍耐。
It covers all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.
13:8 爱是永不败落；但申言终必归于无用，方言终必停止，知识也终必归于无用。
Love never falls away. But whether prophecies, they will be rendered useless; or tongues, they will cease; or knowledge, it will be rendered useless.
13:9 因为我们所知道的是局部的，所申言的也是局部的；
For we know in part, and we prophesy in part;
13:10 及至那完全的来到，这局部的就要归于无用了。
But when that which is complete comes, that which is in part will be rendered useless.
13:11 我作孩童的时候，说话像孩童，思想像孩童，推究像孩童，既已成人，就把孩童的事废掉了。
When I was a child, I spoke as a child, I thought as a child, I reasoned as a child; since I have become a man, I have done away with childish things.
13:12 我们如今对着镜子观看，模糊不清，到那时就要面对面了。我如今所知道的是局部的，到那时就全知道，如同我全被知道一样。
For now we see in a mirror obscurely, but at that time face to face; now I know in part, but at that time I will fully know even as also I was fully known.
13:13 如今常存的，有信、望、爱这三样，其中最大的是爱。
Now there abide faith, hope, love, these three; and the greatest of these is love.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 14 章
14:1 你们要追求爱，更要切慕属灵的恩赐，尤其要切慕申言。
1092
Pursue love, and desire earnestly spiritual gifts, but especially that you may prophesy.
14:2 那说方言的，原不是对人说，乃是对神说，因为没有人听出来，然而他在灵里却是讲说各样的奥秘。
For he who speaks in a tongue does not speak to men but to God; for no one hears, but in his spirit he speaks mysteries.
14:3 但那申言的，是对人讲说建造、勉励和安慰。
But he who prophesies speaks building up and encouragement and consolation to men.
14:4 那说方言的，是建造自己，但那申言的，乃是建造召会。
He who speaks in a tongue builds up himself, but he who prophesies builds up the church.
14:5 我愿意你们都说方言，但我更愿意你们申言；说方言的，若不翻出来，使召会得建造，那申言的，就比他强了。
I desire that you all speak in tongues, but especially that you would prophesy; and greater is he who prophesies than he who speaks in tongues, unless he
interprets, that the church may receive building up.
14:6 弟兄们，我到你们那里去，若只说方言，与你们有什么益处？除非我用启示，或知识，或预言，或教训，对你们讲说。
But now, brothers, if I come to you speaking in tongues, what will I profit you, unless I speak to you either in revelation or in knowledge or in prophecy or in
teaching?
14:7 就是那无生命而发声之物，或箫、或琴，若发出来的声调没有分别，怎能知道所吹所弹的是什么？
Yet even lifeless things, whether flute or harp, in giving a sound, if they give no distinction in the tones, how will what is played on the flute or on the harp be
known?
14:8 若吹无定的号声，谁能预备打仗？
For also if the trumpet gives an uncertain sound, who will prepare himself for battle?
14:9 你们也是如此，若不用舌头说容易明白的话，人怎能知道你所说的是什么？这样，你们就是向空气说话了。
So also you, unless you give with the tongue a word easy to understand, how will what is being said be known? For you will be speaking into the air.
14:10 世上的口音，种类或者甚多，却没有一样是无音义的。
There are perhaps many kinds of voices in the world, and not one is without significance.
14:11 这样，我若不明白那口音的意思，我对那说话的便是化外之人，那说话的对我也是化外之人。
If then I do not know the meaning of the voice, I will be to him who is speaking a barbarian, and he who is speaking a barbarian to me.
14:12 你们也是如此，既渴慕灵，就要为着召会的建造，寻求得以超越。
So also you, since you are zealous of spirits, seek that you may excel for the building up of the church.
14:13 所以那说方言的，就当祷告，使他能翻出来。
Therefore let him who speaks in a tongue pray that he may interpret.
14:14 因为我若用方言祷告，我的灵就祷告，我的心思却没有作用。
For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my mind is unfruitful.
14:15 这却怎么样？我要用灵祷告，也要用心思祷告；我要用灵歌唱，也要用心思歌唱。
What then? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray also with the mind; I will sing with the spirit, and I will sing also with the mind.
14:16 不然，你若用灵祝福，在场那不通方言的人，既然不晓得你所说的，怎能在你感谢的时候说阿们？
Otherwise if you bless with the spirit, how shall he who fills the place of the unlearned in tongues say the Amen at your giving of thanks, since he does not know
what you are saying?
14:17 你固然感谢得好，无奈别人得不着建造。
For you give thanks well, but the other is not built up.
14:18 我感谢神，我说方言比你们众人还多，
I thank God, I speak in tongues more than all of you,
14:19 但在召会中，我宁愿用我的心思说五句话，可以教导人，强如用方言说万句话。
But in the church I would rather speak five words with my mind, that I might instruct others also, than ten thousand words in a tongue.
14:20 弟兄们，在领悟上不要作小孩子，但在恶事上要作婴孩，在领悟上却要成熟。
Brothers, do not be children in your understanding, but in malice be babes and in your understanding be full-grown.
14:21 律法上记着：“主说，我要用异邦人的舌头，和异邦人的嘴唇，向这百姓说话；虽然如此，他们还是不听从我。”
In the law it is written, "By those of other tongues and with the lips of others I will speak to this people; even so they will not listen to Me, says the Lord.''
14:22 这样，方言不是给信的人作表记，乃是给不信的人；但申言不是给不信的人作表记，乃是给信的人。
So then tongues are for a sign, not to those who believe but to the unbelievers; but prophecy is for a sign not to the unbelievers but to those who believe.
14:23 所以若全召会聚在一处的时候，众人都说方言，有不通方言的，或是不信的人进来，岂不说你们癫狂了么？
If therefore the whole church comes together in one place, and all speak in tongues, and some unlearned in tongues or unbelievers enter, will they not say that
you are insane?
14:24 但若众人都申言，有不信的，或是不通方言的人进来，他就被众人劝服，被众人审明了；
But if all prophesy and some unbeliever or unlearned person enters, he is convicted by all, he is examined by all;
14:25 他心里的隐情显露出来，就必面伏于地敬拜神，宣告说，神真是在你们中间了。
The secrets of his heart become manifest; and so falling on his face, he will worship God, declaring that indeed God is among you.
14:26 弟兄们，这却怎么样？每逢你们聚在一起的时候，各人或有诗歌，或有教训，或有启示，或有方言，或有翻出来的话，凡事都当为建造。
What then, brothers? Whenever you come together, each one has a psalm, has a teaching, has a revelation, has a tongue, has an interpretation. Let all things be
done for building up.
14:27 若有人说方言，只好两个人，至多三个人，且要轮流着说，也要有一个人翻出来；
If anyone speaks in a tongue, it should be by two, or at the most three, and in turn, and one should interpret;
14:28 若没有翻的人，就当在召会中静默，只对自己和神说就是了。
But if there is no interpreter, he should be silent in the church, and speak to himself and to God.
14:29 至于申言者，可以两个人或三个人说话，其余的就当明辨。
And as to prophets, two or three should speak, and the others discern.
14:30 但若在座的，另有人得了启示，那先说话的就当静默。
But if something is revealed to another sitting by, the first should be silent.
14:31 因为你们都能一个一个的申言，为要使众人有学习，使众人得勉励。
1093
For you can all prophesy one by one that all may learn and all may be encouraged.
14:32 并且申言者的灵，是服从申言者的，
And the spirits of prophets are subject to prophets;
14:33 因为神不是混乱的，乃是和平的。
For God is not a God of confusion but of peace. As in all the churches of the saints,
14:34 妇女在召会中要静默，像在众圣徒的众召会中一样，因为不准她们说话；她们乃要服从，正如律法所说的。
The women should be silent in the churches, for they are not permitted to speak; but they should be subject, even as the law also says.
14:35 她们若想要学什么，可以在家里问自己的丈夫，因为妇女在召会中说话，是可耻的。
But if they desire to learn anything, they should ask their own husbands at home; for it is a shame for a woman to speak in the church.
14:36 神的话岂是从你们出来么？岂是单临到你们么？
Or was it from you that the word of God went forth? Or did it reach only to you?
14:37 若有人自以为是申言者，或是属灵的，就该清楚知道，我所写给你们的是主的命令。
If anyone thinks he is a prophet or spiritual, let him fully know the things which I write to you, that they are the commandment of the Lord.
14:38 但若有人不理会，就由他不理会吧。
But if anyone ignores this, let him ignore it.
14:39 所以我弟兄们，你们要切慕申言，也不要禁止说方言。
So then, my brothers, desire earnestly the prophesying, and do not forbid the speaking in tongues.
14:40 凡事都要端正得体的按着次序行。
But all things must be done becomingly and in order.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 15 章
15:1 弟兄们，我要你们明白我先前所传与你们的福音，这福音你们也领受了，又在其中站住；
Now I make known to you, brothers, the gospel which I announced to you, which also you received, in which also you stand,
15:2 你们若持守我所传与你们为福音的话，也必藉这福音逐渐得救，除非你们是徒然相信。
Through which also you are being saved, if you hold fast the word which I announced to you as the gospel, unless you have believed in vain.
15:3 我从前所领受又传与你们的，第一，就是基督照圣经所说，为我们的罪死了，
For I delivered to you, first of all, that which also I received, that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures;
15:4 而且埋葬了，又照圣经所说，第三天复活了；
And that He was buried, and that He has been raised on the third day according to the Scriptures;
15:5 并且向矶法显现，然后向十二使徒显现，
And that He appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve;
15:6 后来一时向五百多弟兄显现，其中大多数到如今还在，但也有些已经睡了；
Then He appeared to over five hundred brothers at one time, of whom the majority remain until now, but some have fallen asleep;
15:7 以后向雅各显现，然后向众使徒显现，
Then He appeared to James, then to all the apostles;
15:8 末了也向我这如同未到产期而生的人显现。
And last of all He appeared to me also, as it were to one born prematurely.
15:9 我原是使徒中最小的，不适于称为使徒，因为我逼迫过神的召会。
For I am the least of the apostles, who am not fit to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
15:10 然而因着神的恩，我成了我今天这个人，并且神的恩临到我，不是徒然的；反而我比众使徒格外劳苦，但这不是我，乃是神的恩与我同在。
But by the grace of God I am what I am; and His grace unto me did not turn out to be in vain, but, on the contrary, I labored more abundantly than all of them, yet
not I but the grace of God which is with me.
15:11 所以，不拘是我，是众使徒，我们如此传，你们也如此信了。
Therefore whether it is I or they, so we preach and so you have believed.
15:12 既传基督从死人中复活了，怎么在你们中间，有人说没有死人的复活？
But if Christ is proclaimed that He has been raised from the dead, how is it that some among you say that there is no resurrection of the dead?
15:13 若没有死人的复活，基督也就没有复活了；
But if there is no resurrection of the dead, neither has Christ been raised.
15:14 若基督没有复活，我们所传扬的，便是徒然，你们所信的，也是徒然，
And if Christ has not been raised, then our proclamation is vain; your faith is vain also.
15:15 我们也就被发现是神的假见证人，因为死人若真不复活，我们就是妄证神叫祂所没有复活的基督复活了。
And also we are found to be false witnesses of God because we have testified concerning God that He raised Christ, whom He did not raise, if indeed the dead
are not raised.
15:16 因为死人若不复活，基督也就没有复活了；
For if the dead are not raised, neither has Christ been raised.
15:17 基督若没有复活，你们所信的，便是枉然，你们就仍在你们的罪里。
And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile; you are still in your sins.
15:18 这样，在基督里睡了的人也灭亡了。
Then also those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished.
15:19 我们在基督里，若只在今生有指望，就是众人中最可怜的。
If it is only that we have hoped in Christ in this life, we are of all men most miserable.
15:20 但如今基督，就是睡了之人初熟的果子，已经从死人中复活。
But now Christ has been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep.
15:21 死既是借着人来的，死人的复活也是借着人来的；
1094
For since through man came death, through man also came the resurrection of the dead.
15:22 因为在亚当里众人都死了，照样，在基督里众人也都要活过来。
For just as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive.
15:23 只是各人要按着自己的等次：初熟的果子，是基督，以后在祂来临的时候，是那些属基督的。
But each one in his own order: the firstfruits, Christ; then those who are Christ's at His coming;
15:24 再后，是末期，那时基督要将国交与神，就是父，那时祂已将一切执政的、掌权的、有能的都废除了。
Then the end, when He delivers up the kingdom to His God and Father, once He has abolished all rule and all authority and power.
15:25 因为基督必要作王，直到神把一切仇敌都放在祂的脚下。
For He must reign until God puts all His enemies under His feet.
15:26 最后所废除的仇敌，就是死，
Death, the last enemy, is being abolished.
15:27 因为神已叫万有都服在祂的脚下。祂既说万有都服了，明显那叫万有服祂的，就不在其内了。
For He has subjected all things under His feet. But when He says that all things are subjected, it is evident that all things are except Him who has subjected all
things to Him.
15:28 万有既服了祂，那时，子自己也要服那叫万有服祂的，叫神在万有中作一切。
And when all things have been subjected to Him, then the Son Himself also will be subjected to Him who has subjected all things to Him, that God may be all in
all.
15:29 不然，那些替死人受浸的，将作什么？若死人真不复活，为什么还替他们受浸？
Otherwise what shall they who are baptized for the dead do? If the dead are actually not raised, why then are they baptized for them?
15:30 我们又为什么时刻冒险？
Why also do we brave danger every hour?
15:31 弟兄们，我指着我为你们在我们主基督耶稣里所有的夸耀，郑重的说，我是天天死。
I protest by the boasting in you, brothers, which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die daily.
15:32 我若照人的作法，在以弗所同野兽战斗，那对我有什么益处？若死人不复活，我们就吃吃喝喝吧，因为明天要死了。
If after the manner of men I fought with wild beasts at Ephesus, what does it profit me? If the dead are not raised, let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die.
15:33 你们不要受迷惑：滥交败坏善行。
Do not be deceived: Evil companionships corrupt good morals.
15:34 你们要按着义清醒过来，不要犯罪，因为你们中间有人对神是无知的。我说这话，是要叫你们羞愧。
Awake from the drunken stupor righteously and do not sin, for some of you are ignorant of God. I speak to your shame.
15:35 但有人要说，死人怎样复活？带着什么样的身体来？
But someone will say, How are the dead raised? And with what kind of body do they come?
15:36 愚昧的人，你所种的，若不死就不能生；
Foolish man, what you sow is not made alive unless it dies;
15:37 并且你所种的，不是那将来的形体，乃是赤裸的子粒，也许是麦子，或其他的谷。
And what you sow, you do not sow the body that will be, but a bare grain, perhaps of wheat or of some other of the rest.
15:38 但神随自己的意思，给它一个形体，并叫各等子粒，各有自己的形体。
But God gives it a body even as He willed, and to each of the seeds its own body.
15:39 一切肉体不都是一样的肉体：人的是一样，牲畜的肉体又是一样，鸟的肉体又是一样，鱼的又是一样。
All flesh is not the same flesh, but one is of men, and another flesh is of cattle, and another is of birds, and another is of fish.
15:40 有天上的形体，也有地上的形体；但天上形体的荣耀是一样，地上形体的荣耀又是一样。
There are also heavenly bodies and earthly bodies; but the glory of the heavenly is one thing, and that of the earthly is another.
15:41 日的荣耀是一样，月的荣耀又是一样，星的荣耀另是一样，这星和那星在荣耀上也有分别。
There is another glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for star differs from star in glory.
15:42 死人的复活也是这样。在朽坏中所种的，在不朽坏中复活；
So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption;
15:43 在羞辱中所种的，在荣耀中复活；在软弱中所种的，在能力中复活。
It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power;
15:44 所种的是属魂的身体，复活的是属灵的身体。若有属魂的身体，也就有属灵的身体。
It is sown a soulish body, it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a soulish body, there is also a spiritual one.
15:45 经上也是这样记着：“首先的人亚当成了活的魂；”末后的亚当成了赐生命的灵。
So also it is written, "The first man, Adam, became a living soul''; the last Adam became a life-giving Spirit.
15:46 但不是属灵的在先，乃是属魂的在先，以后才是属灵的：
But the spiritual is not first but the soulish, then the spiritual:
15:47 头一个人是出于地，乃属土；第二个人是出于天。
The first man is out of the earth, earthy; the second man is out of heaven.
15:48 那属土的怎样，凡属土的也怎样；那属天的怎样，凡属天的也怎样。
As the earthy is, such are they also that are earthy; and as the heavenly is, such are they also that are heavenly.
15:49 我们既有属土者的形像，将来也必有属天者的形像。
And even as we have borne the image of the earthy, we will also bear the image of the heavenly.
15:50 弟兄们，我告诉你们，血肉之人不能承受神的国，朽坏的也不能承受不朽坏的。
Now this I say, brothers, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, neither does corruption inherit incorruption.
15:51 看哪，我把一个奥秘告诉你们：我们不是都要睡觉，乃是都要改变，
Behold, I tell you a mystery: We will not all sleep, but we will all be changed,
15:52 就是在一刹那，眨眼之间，末次号筒的时候；因号筒要响，死人要复活，成为不朽坏的，我们也要改变。
In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet; for the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we will be changed.
15:53 因这必朽坏的，必要穿上不朽坏；这必死的，必要穿上不死。
1095
For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality.
15:54 几时这必朽坏的穿上不朽坏，这必死的穿上不死，经上所记“死被吞灭而致成得胜”的话，就应验了。
And when this corruptible will put on incorruption and this mortal will put on immortality, then the word which is written will come to pass, "Death has been
swallowed up unto victory.''
15:55 死阿，你的得胜在那里？死阿，你的毒刺在那里？
Where, O death, is your victory? Where, O death, is your sting?
15:56 死的毒刺就是罪，罪的权势就是律法。
The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law.
15:57 感谢神，祂借着我们的主耶稣基督，使我们得胜。
But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
15:58 所以我亲爱的弟兄们，你们务要坚固，不可摇动，常常竭力多作主工，因为知道你们的劳苦，在主里面不是徒然的。
Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 16 章
16:1 关于为圣徒收集馈送，我从前怎样吩咐加拉太的众召会，你们也当怎样行。
Now concerning the collection for the saints, just as I directed the churches of Galatia, so you also do.
16:2 每逢七日的第一日，你们各人要照所得的昌盛，拿出来储存着，免得我来的时候才收集。
On the first day of the week each one of you should lay aside in store to himself whatever he may have been prospered, that no collections be made when I
come.
16:3 及至我来到，你们称许谁，我就打发他们带着信，把你们的馈送送到耶路撒冷去；
And when I arrive, whomever you approve, I will send them with letters to carry your gift to Jerusalem;
16:4 若我去也合式，他们可以和我同去。
And if it is fitting for me also to go, they will go with me.
16:5 因为我正要经过马其顿，经过了，就要到你们那里去，
Now I will come to you when I pass through Macedonia, for I will pass through Macedonia.
16:6 或许和你们同住几时，或者也过冬，以便我无论往那里去，你们都可以给我送行。
And perhaps I will stay with you, or even spend the winter, that you may send me forward wherever I may go.
16:7 我不愿意只是路过见你们，主若许，我指望和你们同住几时。
For I do not wish to see you now just in passing, for I am hoping to remain with you for some time, if the Lord permits.
16:8 但我要仍旧住在以弗所，直到五旬节，
But I will remain in Ephesus until Pentecost,
16:9 因为有宽大又有功效的门为我开了，并且反对的人也多。
For a door is opened to me, great and efficacious, and there are many opposers.
16:10 若是提摩太来到，你们要留心，叫他在你们那里无所惧怕，因为他作主的工像我一样。
Now if Timothy comes, see that he is with you without fear; for he is working the work of the Lord, even as I am.
16:11 所以无论谁，都不可藐视他。但你们要送他平安前行，使他可以到我这里来，因我正等待他和弟兄们同来。
Let no one therefore despise him, but send him forward in peace that he may come to me; for I am awaiting him with the brothers.
16:12 至于亚波罗弟兄，我再三的劝他，要同弟兄们到你们那里去；但现在他绝不愿意去，几时有了机会他必去。
And concerning our brother Apollos, I urged him many times to come to you with the brothers; yet it was not at all his desire to come now, but he will come when
he has opportunity.
16:13 你们要儆醒，在信仰上站立得住，要作大丈夫，要刚强。
Watch, stand firm in the faith, be full-grown men, be strong.
16:14 凡事你们都要在爱里作。
Let all your matters be done in love.
16:15 弟兄们，你们晓得司提反一家，是亚该亚初结的果子，并且他们委身服事圣徒；
Now I exhort you, brothers: You know the household of Stephanas, that it is the firstfruits of Achaia, and they have set themselves to minister to the saints;
16:16 我劝你们也服从这样的人，并一切同工同劳的人。
You also be subject to such ones, and to everyone co-working and laboring.
16:17 我因司提反和福徒拿都并亚该古的来临而喜乐，因为你们的不在所致使的短缺，他们都补足了，
Now I rejoice at the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus, because these have filled up the lack caused by your absence;
16:18 他们使我和你们的灵都畅快。这样的人你们务要赏识。
For they refreshed my spirit and yours. Acknowledge therefore such ones.
16:19 亚西亚的众召会问你们安。亚居拉和百基拉，并在他们家中的召会，在主里多多的问你们安。
The churches of Asia greet you. Aquila and Prisca greet you much in the Lord, with the church, which is in their house.
16:20 众弟兄都问你们安。你们要用圣别的亲嘴彼此问安。
All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
16:21 我保罗亲笔问安。
The greeting in my own hand -- Paul.
16:22 若有人不爱主，他就是可咒可诅的。主来了！
If anyone does not love the Lord, let him be accursed! The Lord comes!
16:23 愿主耶稣的恩，与你们同在。
The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you.
16:24 我在基督耶稣里的爱，与你们众人同在。
My love in Christ Jesus be with you all.
1096
1097
47. 哥林多后书 2 Corinthians
哥林多后书 2 Corinthians 第 1 章
1:1 凭神旨意，作基督耶稣使徒的保罗，和弟兄提摩太，写信给在哥林多神的召会，同着在全亚该亚的众圣徒：
Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, and Timothy the brother, to the church of God which is in Corinth, with all the saints who are in the whole
of Achaia:
1:2 愿恩典与平安，从神我们的父，并主耶稣基督归与你们。
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1:3 我们主耶稣基督的神与父，就是那怜恤人的父，和赐诸般安慰的神，是当受颂赞的；
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of compassions and God of all comfort;
1:4 祂在我们一切的患难中安慰我们，叫我们能用自己从神所受的安慰，安慰那些在各样患难中的人。
Who comforts us in all our affliction that we may be able to comfort those who are in every affliction through the comforting with which we ourselves are
comforted by God.
1:5 因为基督的苦难怎样满溢到我们身上，照样我们所受的安慰，也借着基督而洋溢。
For even as the sufferings of the Christ abound unto us, so through the Christ our comfort also abounds.
1:6 我们或是受患难，是为了你们受安慰，得拯救；或是受安慰，也是为了你们受安慰；这安慰叫你们能忍受我们所受的同样苦难。
But whether we are afflicted, it is for your comforting and salvation; or whether we are comforted, it is for your comforting, which operates in the endurance of the
same sufferings which we also suffer.
1:7 我们为你们所存的盼望是确定的，知道你们既是同受苦难，也必照样同受安慰。
And our hope for you is firm, knowing that as you are partakers of the sufferings, so also you are of the comfort.
1:8 弟兄们，关于我们在亚西亚所遭遇的患难，我们不愿意你们不知道，就是我们被压太重，力不能胜，甚至连活命的指望都绝了，
For we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, of our affliction which befell us in Asia, that we were excessively burdened, beyond our power, so that we
despaired even of living.
1:9 自己里面也断定是必死的，叫我们不信靠自己，只信靠那叫死人复活的神；
Indeed we ourselves had the response of death in ourselves, that we should not base our confidence on ourselves but on God, who raises the dead;
1:10 祂曾救我们脱离那极大的死亡，并且仍要救我们，我们指望祂将来还要救我们，
Who has delivered us out of so great a death, and will deliver us; in whom we have hoped that He will also yet deliver us,
1:11 只要你们也为着我们以祈求配合帮助，好叫许多人因我们借着许多人所得的恩赐，为我们献上感谢。
If you also help in this by petition on our behalf, that for the gift to us through many, thanks may be given by many persons on our behalf.
1:12 我们所夸的，是我们的良心见证我们凭着神的单纯和纯诚，在世为人，不靠属肉体的智慧，乃靠神的恩典，对你们更是这样。
For our boasting is this, the testimony of our conscience, that in singleness and sincerity of God, not in fleshly wisdom but in the grace of God, we have conducted
ourselves in the world, and more abundantly toward you.
1:13 我们写给你们的，并不外乎你们所诵读，甚至所明白的，我也盼望你们能明白到底，
For no other things do we write to you than what you read or even know; and I hope that you will know unto the end,
1:14 正如你们已经有几分明白我们：我们乃是你们的夸耀，好像在我们主耶稣的日子，你们也是我们的夸耀一样。
Even as also you know us in part, that we are your boast, just as you also are ours in the day of our Lord Jesus.
1:15 我既然这样深信，先前就有意到你们那里去，叫你们得着两次的恩典，
And in this confidence I intended to come to you previously that you might have double grace,
1:16 也要从你们那里经过，往马其顿去，再从马其顿回到你们那里，然后蒙你们送行往犹太去。
And through you to pass through into Macedonia, and again from Macedonia to come to you and be sent forward by you into Judea.
1:17 我有这样的意思，难道是行事轻浮么？还是我所定的意是按着肉体定的，以致在我有忽是忽非么？
This therefore intending, did I then use fickleness? Or the things which I purpose, do I purpose according to the flesh, so that with me there should be Yes, yes and
No, no?
1:18 但神既是信实的，我们对你们所说的话，就没有是而又非的，
But as God is faithful, our word toward you is not yes and no.
1:19 因为借着我和西拉并提摩太，在你们中间所传神的儿子耶稣基督，并不是是而又非的，在祂只有一是。
For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you through us, through me and Silvanus and Timothy, did not become yes and no, but our word has
become yes in Him.
1:20 因为神的应许，不论有多少，在基督里都是是的，所以借着祂，对神也都是阿们的，好叫荣耀借着我们归与神。
For as many promises of God as there are, in Him is the Yes; therefore also through Him is the Amen to God, for glory through us to God.
1:21 然而那把我们同你们，坚固的联于基督，并且膏了我们的，就是神；
But the One who firmly attaches us with you unto Christ and has anointed us is God,
1:22 祂既印了我们，又赐那灵在我们心里作质。
He who has also sealed us and given the Spirit in our hearts as a pledge.
1:23 我呼求神给我作见证，我还未往哥林多去，是为要宽容你们。
But I call on God as a witness against my soul that to spare you I have not yet come to Corinth.
1:24 我们并不是作主管辖你们的信心，乃是与你们同工，使你们喜乐，因为你们是凭信而立。
Not that we lord it over your faith, but we are fellow workers with you for your joy; for by faith you stand.
哥林多后书 2 Corinthians 第 2 章
2:1 但为了我自己，我已经这样断定，不再带着忧愁到你们那里去。
But I determined this for myself, that I would not come again to you in sorrow.
2:2 因为我若叫你们忧愁，这样，除了我叫他忧愁的那人以外，谁能叫我快乐？
1098
For if I cause you sorrow, who then is the one who makes me glad, except the one who is made sorrowful by me?
2:3 我曾把这事写给你们，免得我来的时候，那些应该叫我喜乐的人，反倒叫我忧愁；我深信你们众人，都以我的喜乐为你们众人的喜乐。
And I wrote this very thing to you that when I come I would not have sorrow from those who ought to make me rejoice, having confidence in you all that my joy is
the joy of you all.
2:4 我先前由于许多的患难，和心中的困苦，多多的流泪，写信给你们，不是要叫你们忧愁，乃是要叫你们知道，我对你们的爱是格外充盈的。
For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote to you through many tears, not that you would be made sorrowful but that you would know the love which I
have more abundantly toward you.
2:5 只是若有叫人忧愁的，他不是叫我忧愁，乃是有几分叫你们众人忧愁。（我说几分，免得我说得太重。）
But if anyone has caused sorrow, he has not caused me to sorrow, but in part (lest I lay too heavy a burden) all of you.
2:6 这样的人，受了多数人的责罚，也就够了，
Sufficient for such a one is this punishment by the majority,
2:7 你们倒不如饶恕他，安慰他，免得这样的人或者忧愁太过，就被吞灭了。
So that on the contrary you should rather forgive and comfort him, lest perhaps such a one be swallowed up with excessive sorrow.
2:8 所以我劝你们，要向他证实你们的爱。
Therefore I exhort you to confirm your love toward him.
2:9 为此我也曾写信给你们，要知道你们经过试验的品德，看你们是否在凡事上都顺从。
For to this end also I wrote, that I might know your approvedness, whether you are obedient in all things.
2:10 你们饶恕谁什么，我也饶恕；我若曾有所饶恕，我所已经饶恕的，是在基督的面前，为你们饶恕的；
But whom you forgive anything, I also forgive; for also what I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, it is for your sake in the person of Christ;
2:11 免得我们给撒但占了便宜，因我们并非不晓得他的阴谋。
That we may not be taken advantage of by Satan, for we are not ignorant of his schemes.
2:12 再者，我从前为基督的福音到了特罗亚，借着主也有门向我开了，
Furthermore, when I came to Troas for the gospel of Christ and a door was open to me in the Lord,
2:13 那时没有找到我的弟兄提多，我灵里不安，便辞别那里的人，往马其顿去了。
I had no rest in my spirit, for I did not find Titus my brother; but taking leave of them, I went forth into Macedonia.
2:14 感谢神，祂常在基督里，在凯旋的行列中帅领我们，并借着我们在各处显扬那因认识基督而有的香气；
But thanks be to God, who always leads us in triumph in the Christ and manifests the savor of the knowledge of Him through us in every place.
2:15 因为无论在那些正在得救的人中，或是在那些正在灭亡的人中，我们都是献给神的基督馨香之气：
For we are a fragrance of Christ to God in those who are being saved and in those who are perishing:
2:16 在这等人，就是出于死的香气叫人死；在那等人，就是出于生命的香气叫人活；对这些事，谁够资格？
To some a savor out of death unto death, and to the others a savor out of life unto life. And who is sufficient for these things?
2:17 我们不像那许多人，为利混乱神的话，而是出于纯诚，出于神，在神面前在基督里讲神的话。
For we are not like the many, adulterating the word of God for profit; but as out of sincerity, but as out of God, before God we speak in Christ.
哥林多后书 2 Corinthians 第 3 章
3:1 我们岂是又开始推荐自己么？岂像有些人，需要给你们荐信，或由你们写荐信么？
Are we beginning again to commend ourselves? Or do we need, as some do, letters of commendation to you or from you?
3:2 你们就是我们的信，写在我们的心里，是众人所认识、所诵读的，
You are our letter, inscribed in our hearts, known and read by all men,
3:3 你们显明是基督的信，由我们供职所写的，不是用墨，乃是用活神的灵写的，不是写在石版上，乃是写在肉版，就是心上。
Since you are being manifested that you are a letter of Christ ministered by us, inscribed not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God; not in tablets of stone but
in tablets of hearts of flesh.
3:4 我们借着基督，对神有这样的深信。
And such confidence we have through Christ toward God,
3:5 并不是我们凭自己够资格将什么估计作像是出于我们自己的；我们之所以够资格，乃是出于神；
Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to account anything as from ourselves; but our sufficiency is from God,
3:6 祂使我们够资格作新约的执事，这些执事不是属于字句，乃是属于灵，因为那字句杀死人，那灵却叫人活。
Who has also made us sufficient as ministers of a new covenant, ministers not of the letter but of the Spirit; for the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life.
3:7 若那用字刻在石头上属死的职事，尚且是带着荣光立的，以致以色列子孙因摩西面上渐渐废去的荣光，不能定睛看他的脸，
Moreover if the ministry of death, engraved in stone in letters, came about in glory, so that the sons of Israel were not able to gaze at the face of Moses because
of the glory of his face, a glory which was being done away with,
3:8 何况那灵的职事，岂不更带着荣光？
How shall the ministry of the Spirit not be more in glory?
3:9 若定罪的职事有荣光，那称义的职事，就越发充盈着荣光了。
For if there is glory with the ministry of condemnation, much more the ministry of righteousness abounds with glory.
3:10 那从前得荣光的，在这一点上，因这超越的荣光，就算不得有荣光；
For also that which has been glorified in this respect has not been glorified on account of the surpassing glory.
3:11 因为那渐渐废去的，如果是经过荣光的，这长存的就更多在荣光里了。
For if that which was being done away with was through glory, much more that which remains is in glory.
3:12 所以，我们既有这样的盼望，就大大放胆，
Therefore since we have such hope, we use much boldness,
3:13 不像摩西将帕子蒙在脸上，为要叫以色列子孙，不能定睛看到那渐渐废去者的结局。
And are not like Moses, who put a veil on his face so that the sons of Israel would not gaze at the end of that which was being done away with.
3:14 但他们的心思刚硬，因为直到今日他们诵读旧约的时候，同样的帕子还存留着，他们还未得启示这帕子在基督里已经废去了。
1099
But their thoughts were hardened; for until the present day the same veil remains at the reading of the old covenant, it not being unveiled to them that the veil is
being done away with in Christ.
3:15 是的，直到今日，每逢诵读摩西书的时候，帕子还留在他们心上；
Indeed unto this day, whenever Moses is read, a veil lies on their heart;
3:16 但他们的心几时转向主，帕子就几时除去了。
But whenever their heart turns to the Lord, the veil is taken away.
3:17 而且主就是那灵；主的灵在那里，那里就有自由。
And the Lord is the Spirit; and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom.
3:18 但我们众人既然以没有帕子遮蔽的脸，好像镜子观看并返照主的荣光，就渐渐变化成为与祂同样的形像，从荣耀到荣耀，乃是从主灵变化成的。
But we all with unveiled face, beholding and reflecting like a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, even as
from the Lord Spirit.
哥林多后书 2 Corinthians 第 4 章
4:1 因此，我们既照所蒙的怜悯，受了这职事，就不丧胆，
Therefore having this ministry as we have been shown mercy, we do not lose heart;
4:2 乃将那些可耻隐密的事弃绝了，不以诡诈行事，也不搀混神的话，只将真理显扬出来，藉以在神面前将自己荐与各人的良心。
But we have renounced the hidden things of shame, not walking in craftiness nor adulterating the word of God, but by the manifestation of the truth commending
ourselves to every conscience of men before God.
4:3 如果我们的福音真的受蒙蔽，也是蒙蔽在灭亡的人身上；
And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled in those who are perishing,
4:4 在他们里面，这世代的神弄瞎了他们这不信者的心思，叫基督荣耀之福音的光照，不照亮他们；基督本是神的像。
In whom the god of this age has blinded the thoughts of the unbelievers that the illumination of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God, might
not shine on them.
4:5 因为我们不是传自己，乃是传基督耶稣为主，也传自己为耶稣的缘故，作你们的奴仆。
For we do not preach ourselves but Christ Jesus as Lord, and ourselves as your slaves for Jesus' sake.
4:6 因为那说光要从黑暗里照出来的神，已经照在我们心里，为着光照人，使人认识那显在耶稣基督面上之神的荣耀。
Because the God who said, Out of darkness light shall shine, is the One who shined in our hearts to illuminate the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of
Jesus Christ.
4:7 但我们有这宝贝在瓦器里，要显明这超越的能力，是属于神，不是出于我们；
But we have this treasure in earthen vessels that the excellency of the power may be of God and not out of us.
4:8 我们四面受压，却不被困住；出路绝了，却非绝无出路；
We are pressed on every side but not constricted; unable to find a way out but not utterly without a way out;
4:9 遭逼迫，却不被撇弃；打倒了，却不至灭亡；
Persecuted but not abandoned; cast down but not destroyed;
4:10 身体上常带着耶稣的治死，使耶稣的生命也显明在我们的身体上。
Always bearing about in the body the putting to death of Jesus that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our body.
4:11 因为我们这活着的人，是常为耶稣被交于死，使耶稣的生命，也在我们这必死的肉身上显明出来。
For we who are alive are always being delivered unto death for Jesus' sake that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh.
4:12 这样，死是在我们身上发动，生命却在你们身上发动。
So then death operates in us, but life in you.
4:13 并且照经上所记：“我信，所以我说话；”我们既有这同样信心的灵，也就信，所以也就说话，
And having the same spirit of faith according to that which is written, "I believed, therefore I spoke,'' we also believe, therefore we also speak,
4:14 知道那叫主耶稣复活的，也必叫我们与耶稣一同复活，并且叫我们与你们一同站在祂面前。
Knowing that He who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus and will make us stand before Him with you.
4:15 因为凡事都是为你们，好叫恩典借着更多的人而增多，使感谢洋溢，以致荣耀归与神。
For all things are for your sakes that the grace which has abounded through the greater number may cause the thanksgiving to abound to the glory of God.
4:16 所以我们不丧胆，反而我们外面的人虽然在毁坏，我们里面的人却日日在更新。
Therefore we do not lose heart; but though our outer man is decaying, yet our inner man is being renewed day by day.
4:17 因为我们这短暂轻微的苦楚，要极尽超越的为我们成就永远重大的荣耀。
For our momentary lightness of affliction works out for us, more and more surpassingly, an eternal weight of glory,
4:18 我们原不是顾念所见的，乃是顾念所不见的，因为所见的是暂时的，所不见的才是永远的。
Because we do not regard the things which are seen but the things which are not seen; for the things which are seen are temporary, but the things which are not
seen are eternal.
哥林多后书 2 Corinthians 第 5 章
5:1 因为我们知道，我们这地上的帐幕房屋若拆毁了，必得着从神来的房舍，非人手所造，在诸天之上永远的房屋。
For we know that if our earthly tabernacle dwelling is taken down, we have a building from God, a dwelling not made with hands, eternal, in the heavens.
5:2 原来我们确是在这帐幕里叹息，深想穿上我们从天上来的住处；
For also in this we groan, longing to be clothed upon with our dwelling place from heaven,
5:3 若真的穿上，就不至于显为赤身了。
If indeed, being clothed, we will not be found naked.
5:4 因为我们在这帐幕里的人，负重叹息，是因不愿脱下这个，乃愿穿上那个，好叫这必死的被生命吞灭了。
1100
For also, we who are in this tabernacle groan, being burdened, in that we do not desire to be unclothed, but clothed upon, that what is mortal may be swallowed
up by life.
5:5 那为这事培植我们的乃是神，祂已将那灵赐给我们作质。
Now He who has wrought us for this very thing is God, who has given to us the Spirit as a pledge.
5:6 所以我们常是放心振作，并且晓得我们居家在身内，便是离家与主分开；
Therefore being always of good courage and knowing that while we are at home in the body, we are abroad from the Lord
5:7 （因我们行事为人，是凭着信心，不是凭着眼见；）
(For we walk by faith, not by appearance) --
5:8 是的，我们是放心振作，宁愿离家出到身外，与主同在家中。
We are of good courage then and are well pleased rather to be abroad from the body and at home with the Lord.
5:9 所以我们也怀着雄心大志，无论是在家，或是离家，都要讨主的喜悦。
Therefore also we are determined, whether at home or abroad, to gain the honor of being well pleasing to Him.
5:10 因为我们众人，必要在基督的审判台前显露出来，叫各人按着本身所行的，或善或恶，受到应得的报应。
For we must all be manifested before the judgment seat of Christ, that each one may receive the things done through the body according to what he has
practiced, whether good or bad.
5:11 所以我们既晓得主的可畏，就劝服人，但我们向神是显明的，只是我盼望在你们的良心里，也是显明的。
Knowing therefore the fear of the Lord, we persuade men, but we are made manifest to God; yet I hope that we are made manifest also in your consciences.
5:12 我们不是再向你们推荐自己，乃是给你们一个为我们夸耀的机会，好叫你们对那凭外貌不凭内心夸口的人，有可应对的。
We are not again commending ourselves to you, but so speak in order to give you an opportunity to boast on our behalf, that you may have an answer for those
who are boasting in outward appearance and not in heart.
5:13 因我们或是癫狂，乃是向着神；或是谨守，乃是为着你们。
For whether we were beside ourselves, it was to God; or whether we are sober-minded, it is for you.
5:14 原来基督的爱困迫我们，因我们断定：一人既替众人死，众人就都死了；
For the love of Christ constrains us because we have judged this, that One died for all, therefore all died;
5:15 并且祂替众人死，是叫那些活着的人，不再向自己活，乃向那替他们死而复活者活。
And He died for all that those who live may no longer live to themselves but to Him who died for them and has been raised.
5:16 所以我们从今以后，不按着肉体认人了；虽然按着肉体认过基督，如今却不再这样认祂了。
So then we, from now on, know no one according to the flesh; even though we have known Christ according to the flesh, yet now we know Him so no longer.
5:17 因此，若有人在基督里，他就是新造；旧事已过，看哪，都变成新的了。
So then if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old things have passed away; behold, they have become new.
5:18 一切都是出于神，祂借着基督使我们与祂自己和好，又将这和好的职事赐给我们；
But all things are out from God, who has reconciled us to Himself through Christ and has given to us the ministry of reconciliation;
5:19 这就是神在基督里，叫世人与祂自己和好，不将他们的过犯算给他们，且将这和好的话语托付了我们。
Namely, that God in Christ was reconciling the world to Himself, not accounting their offenses to them, and has put in us the word of reconciliation.
5:20 所以我们为基督作了大使，就好像神藉我们劝你们一样；我们替基督求你们：要与神和好。
On behalf of Christ then we are ambassadors, as God entreats you through us; we beseech you on behalf of Christ, Be reconciled to God.
5:21 神使那不知罪的，替我们成为罪，好叫我们在祂里面成为神的义。
Him who did not know sin He made sin on our behalf that we might become the righteousness of God in Him.
哥林多后书 2 Corinthians 第 6 章
6:1 而且我们既与神同工，也就劝你们不可徒受祂的恩典，
And working together with Him, we also entreat you not to receive the grace of God in vain;
6:2 因为祂说，“在悦纳的时候，我应允了你；在拯救的日子，我济助了你。”看哪，现在正是最可蒙悦纳的时候；看哪，现在正是拯救的日子。
For He says, "In an acceptable time I listened to you, and in the day of salvation I helped you.'' Behold, now is the well-acceptable time; behold, now is the day of
salvation.
6:3 我们凡事都不使人绊跌，免得这职事被人挑剔，
We give no occasion of stumbling in anything that the ministry may not be faulted,
6:4 反倒在各样的事上，在多方的忍耐上、在患难上、在贫困上、在困苦上、
But in everything we commend ourselves as ministers of God, in much endurance, in afflictions, in necessities, in distresses,
6:5 在鞭打上、在监禁上、在扰乱上、在劳苦上、在不睡上、在不食上，
In stripes, in imprisonments, in tumults, in labors, in watchings, in fastings;
6:6 以纯洁、以知识、以恒忍、以恩慈、以圣别的灵、以无伪的爱、
In pureness, in knowledge, in long-suffering, in kindness, in a holy spirit, in unfeigned love,
6:7 以真实的话、以神的大能，借着在右在左义的兵器，
In the word of truth, in the power of God; through the weapons of righteousness on the right and on the left,
6:8 借着荣耀和羞辱，借着恶名和美名，证荐自己是神的执事；似乎是迷惑人的，却是真诚的；
Through glory and dishonor, through evil report and good report; as deceivers and yet true;
6:9 似乎不为人所知，却是人所共知的；似乎在死，看哪，我们却活着；似乎受管教，却不被治死；
As unknown and yet well known; as dying and yet behold we live; as being disciplined and yet not being put to death;
6:10 似乎忧愁，却常常喜乐；似乎贫穷，却叫许多人富足；似乎一无所有，却拥有万有。
As made sorrowful yet always rejoicing; as poor yet enriching many; as having nothing and yet possessing all things.
6:11 哥林多人哪，我们的口向你们是张开的，我们的心是宽宏的；
Our mouth is opened to you, Corinthians; our heart is enlarged.
6:12 在我们里面，你们并不受限制，你们乃是限制在自己的心肠里。
1101
You are not constricted in us, but you are constricted in your inward parts.
6:13 但你们也要宽宏，作同样的报答，我像对孩子说的。
But for a recompense in kind, I speak as to children, you also be enlarged.
6:14 你们跟不信的，不要不配的同负一轭，因为义和不法有什么合伙？光对黑暗有什么交通？
Do not become dissimilarly yoked with unbelievers. For what partnership do righteousness and lawlessness have? Or what fellowship does light have with
darkness?
6:15 基督对彼列有什么和谐？信的同不信的有什么同分？
And what concord does Christ have with Belial? Or what part does a believer have with an unbeliever?
6:16 神的殿同偶像有什么一致？因为我们是活神的殿，就如神曾说，“我要在他们中间居住，在他们中间行走；我要作他们的神，他们要作我的子民。”
And what agreement does the temple of God have with idols? For we are the temple of the living God, even as God said, "I will dwell among them and walk
among them; and I will be their God, and they will be My people.''
6:17 所以，“主说，你们务要从他们中间出来，得以分别，不要沾不洁之物，我就收纳你们。”
Therefore "come out from their midst and be separated, says the Lord, and do not touch what is unclean; and I will welcome you'';
6:18 “我要作你们的父，你们要作我的儿子和女儿。这是全能的主说的。”
"And I will be a Father to you, and you will be sons and daughters to Me, says the Lord Almighty.''
哥林多后书 2 Corinthians 第 7 章
7:1 所以亲爱的，我们既有这些应许，就当洁净自己，除去肉身和灵一切的玷污，敬畏神，以成全圣别。
Therefore since we have these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of flesh and of spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.
7:2 你们要容纳我们，我们未曾亏负谁，未曾败坏谁，未曾占谁的便宜。
Make room for us; we have wronged no one, we have corrupted no one, we have taken advantage of no one.
7:3 我说这话，不是为定罪你们，因我先前说过，你们是在我们的心里，以至同死同活。
I do not say this to condemn you, for I have said before that you are in our hearts for our dying together and our living together.
7:4 我向你们大大的放胆，我为你们多多的夸口；我满得安慰，在我们一切的患难中，我格外的洋溢喜乐。
Great is my boldness toward you, great is my boasting on your behalf; I am filled with comfort, I overflow with joy in all our affliction.
7:5 原来我们就是到了马其顿，我们的肉身也不得安宁，反而凡事遭患难，外有争战，内有惧怕。
For even when we came into Macedonia, our flesh had no rest, but we were afflicted in everything; without were fightings, within were fears.
7:6 但那安慰颓丧之人的神，借着提多来，安慰了我们；
But He who comforts those who are downcast, that is, God, comforted us by the coming of Titus;
7:7 不但借着他来，也借着他在你们身上所得的安慰，安慰了我们，因他把你们的切望、你们的哀恸、和你们为我的热心，都告诉了我们，叫我更加喜乐。
And not only by his coming, but also by the comfort with which he was comforted because of you, declaring to us your longing, your lamentation, your zeal for
me, so that I rejoiced the more.
7:8 我虽曾写信叫你们忧愁，我并不懊悔；虽然我曾懊悔过，（因我晓得那信曾叫你们忧愁，尽管是一时的，）
For though I caused you sorrow by the letter, I do not regret it. Even if I did regret it (for I see that that letter, even if for an hour, caused you sorrow),
7:9 如今我却喜乐，不是因你们忧愁，乃是因你们忧愁以致悔改，因为你们照着神忧愁，就不至于在任何事上，因我们受亏损了。
Now I rejoice, not that you were made sorrowful, but that you were made sorrowful to repentance; for you were made sorrowful according to God, that in nothing
you might suffer loss from us.
7:10 因为照着神忧愁，生出悔改以致得救，是没有后悔的，但世上的忧愁是产生死亡。
For sorrow according to God works repentance unto salvation, which is without regret; but the sorrow of the world works out death.
7:11 且看这事，你们照着神忧愁，在你们中间已产生何等的热诚、甚而自诉、甚而愤恨、甚而惧怕、甚而切望、甚而热心、甚而责罚。在各方面，你们都
证荐自己在那件事上是纯洁的。
For behold this very thing, your being made sorrowful according to God, what earnestness it has worked out in you, indeed what defense, indeed what
indignation, indeed what fear, indeed what longing, indeed what zeal, indeed what punishment! In everything you have commended yourselves to be pure in the
matter.
7:12 因此，我虽曾写信给你们，却不是为那亏负人的，也不是为那受亏负的，乃是为要在神面前，向你们显明你们对我们的热诚。
So then, though I wrote to you, it was not for the sake of him who did the wrong, nor for the sake of him who was wronged, but for the sake of manifesting to you
before God your earnestness for us.
7:13 所以我们得了安慰，并且在这安慰之外，我们因提多的喜乐，就越发更加喜乐，因他的灵从你们众人得了畅快。
Because of this we have been comforted. And in addition to our comfort, we rejoiced more abundantly over the joy of Titus, because his spirit has been refreshed
by all of you.
7:14 因为我若对提多夸奖了你们什么，也不觉得羞愧。相反的，我们对你们所说的一切事，怎样是真实的，我们在提多面前所夸奖你们的，也怎样成了真
实的。
For if in anything I boasted to him on your behalf, I have not been put to shame; on the contrary, as we spoke all things in truth to you, so also our boasting before
Titus turned out to be the truth.
7:15 并且提多想起你们众人的顺从，就是怎样恐惧战兢的接待他，他的心肠就越发倾向你们了。
And his affections are abundantly toward you, he remembering the obedience of you all, how you received him with fear and trembling.
7:16 我如今喜乐，能在凡事上为你们放心。
I rejoice that in everything I have boldness because of you.
哥林多后书 2 Corinthians 第 8 章
8:1 还有，弟兄们，我们把神在马其顿众召会中所赐的恩典告诉你们，
Furthermore we make known to you, brothers, the grace of God which has been given in the churches of Macedonia,
1102
8:2 就是在患难中受大试验的时候，他们充盈的喜乐，和极深的贫困，汇溢出丰厚的慷慨。
That in much proving of affliction the abundance of their joy and the depth of their poverty abounded unto the riches of their liberality;
8:3 我可以见证，他们是按着能力，而且也过了能力，
That according to their power, I testify, and beyond their power, of their own accord,
8:4 自愿的多方恳求，向我们要求这供给圣徒的恩典和交通，
With much entreaty they besought of us the grace and the fellowship of the ministry to the saints;
8:5 并且他们未照着我们所盼望的，反而凭着神的旨意，先把自己给了主，也给了我们，
And this, not as we had hoped, but they gave themselves first to the Lord, and to us through the will of God.
8:6 以致我们劝提多，他怎样开始了，也当照样为你们完成这恩典，像完成其他的事一样。
So we entreated Titus that, even as he began before, so also he would complete for you this grace as well.
8:7 但你们当在这恩典上也充盈满溢，像你们在凡事上，在信心，在言语，在知识，在一切的热诚，并在那出于我们而在你们里面的爱心上，都充盈满溢
一样。
But just as you abound in everything, in faith and in word and in knowledge and in all earnestness and in the love in you from us, abound in this grace also.
8:8 我说这话，不是命令你们，乃是借着别人的热诚，也试验你们爱的真实。
I am not speaking by way of command but through the earnestness of others, proving also the genuineness of your love.
8:9 你们知道我们主耶稣基督的恩典，祂本来富足，却为你们成了贫穷，叫你们因祂的贫穷，可以成为富足。
For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though He was rich, for your sakes He became poor in order that you, because of His poverty, might
become rich.
8:10 我在这事上提出意见，因这是与你们有益的；你们不但在实行上，也在意愿上，在一年前就先开始了，
And I give my opinion in this matter, for this is profitable for you who were the first to begin a year ago not only to do this but even to intend to do this.
8:11 如今也当办成这事，好叫你们怎样有愿作的热切，也怎样照所有的办成，
But now complete also the doing, so that as there was the eagerness in intending, so also there would be the completing out of what you have.
8:12 因为人若热切愿作，必蒙悦纳，乃是照他所有的，不是照他所无的。
For if the eagerness is there, it is acceptable according to whatever one has, not according to what he does not have.
8:13 这原不是要别人轻省，你们为难，
For it is not that to others there would be relief, yet to you affliction,
8:14 乃是要出于均平，就是要你们的富余，今时可以补他们的不足，为使他们的富余，将来也可以补你们的不足，这就均平了；
But it is out of equality; at the present time your abundance for their lack that their abundance also may be for your lack, so that there may be equality;
8:15 如经上所记：“多收的没有余，少收的也没有缺。”
As it is written, "He who gathered much had no excess, and he who gathered little had no lack.''
8:16 感谢神，把我为你们同样的热诚，赐在提多心里，
But thanks be to God who puts the same earnestness on your behalf in the heart of Titus,
8:17 因他固然接受了恳求，但自己更是热诚，自愿往你们那里去。
Because he not only received the entreaty, but being more earnest, he also went forth of his own accord to you.
8:18 我们还打发一位弟兄和他同去，这人在福音上普遍的为众召会所称赞。
And we sent together with him the brother whose praise in the gospel is throughout all the churches,
8:19 不但这样，他也被众召会选出，在我们所服事的这恩典上，和我们同行，是为着主自己的荣耀，也是为着我们的热切。
And not only this, but who has also been by the churches as our fellow traveler in this grace which is being ministered by us, to the glory of the Lord Himself and
to demonstrate our eagerness;
8:20 这就避免人在我们所服事的这丰裕上，挑剔我们，
Avoiding this, that anyone should find fault with us in this abundance which is being ministered by us.
8:21 因为我们留心作善美可敬的事，不但在主面前，也在人面前。
For we exercise foresight for what is honorable not only in the sight of the Lord but also in the sight of men.
8:22 我们又打发我们的弟兄和他们同去，这人是我们在许多事上，屡次试证为殷勤的，现在他因对你们极其深信，就极其更加殷勤了。
And we sent with them our brother, whom we have proved to be diligent in many things many times, yet now much more diligent because of the great
confidence he has toward you.
8:23 论到提多，他是我的同伙和为着你们的同工；至于我们的弟兄们，他们是众召会的使徒，是基督的荣耀。
Whether concerning Titus, he is my partner and fellow worker for you; or our brothers, they are apostles of the churches, they are Christ's glory.
8:24 所以你们要在众召会面前，向他们显示你们爱心的明证，并我们为你们夸耀的明证。
Show therefore to them, in the face of the churches, the proof of your love and of our boasting on your behalf.
哥林多后书 2 Corinthians 第 9 章
9:1 关于供给圣徒的事，写信给你们，于我原是多余的。
For concerning the ministry to the saints, it is superfluous for me to write to you;
9:2 因为我知道你们的热切，就是我常对马其顿人所夸耀你们的，说亚该亚人在一年前就预备好了；你们的热心便激动了许多人。
For I know your eagerness, of which I boast on your behalf to the Macedonians, that Achaia has been prepared since last year; and your zeal has stirred up the
greater number of them.
9:3 但我打发那几位弟兄去，使我们在这方面为你们所夸耀的，不至于落空，好叫你们照我所说的预备好，
But I sent the brothers that our boasting on your behalf might not be made void in this respect, that, as I said, you might be prepared;
9:4 免得万一有马其顿人与我同去，发现你们没有预备好，就叫我们所确信的蒙羞，你们就更不用说了。
Lest, if the Macedonians come with me and find you unprepared, we, not to mention you, be put to shame in this confidence.
9:5 所以，我想必须劝那几位弟兄先到你们那里去，把你们先前所应许的祝福事前安排好，使这事如此预备好了，就成为受者的祝福，而不成为施者的贪
婪。
1103
Therefore I thought it necessary to entreat the brothers to go before to you and make ready beforehand your previously promised blessing, that thus this might be
ready as a blessing and not as a matter of covetousness.
9:6 还有，少种的少收，多种的多收。
But take note of this: He who sows sparingly shall also sparingly reap; and he who sows with blessings shall also with blessings reap;
9:7 各人要照心里所酌定的，不要作难，不要勉强，因为神喜爱乐意施与的人。
Each one as he has purposed in his heart, not out of sorrow or out of necessity, for God loves a cheerful giver.
9:8 神能使各样的恩典向你们洋溢，使你们在凡事上常常十分充足，能洋溢出各样的善工。
And God is able to make all grace abound unto you, that, in everything always having all sufficiency, you may abound unto every good work;
9:9 就如经上所记：“他分施周济贫贱，他的义存到永远。”
Even as it is written, "He has scattered abroad; he has given to the poor; his righteousness abides forever.''
9:10 那丰富供应种子给撒种者，并丰富供应粮食作食物的，必供应并繁增你们的种子，又增添你们义的果子，
Now He who bountifully supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed and cause the fruits of your righteousness to increase.
9:11 使你们凡事富足，以致十分慷慨，就借着我们对神生出感谢；
You in everything are being enriched unto all liberality, which works out through us thanksgiving to God,
9:12 因为这服事的供应，不但补足圣徒的缺乏，也借着许多对神的感谢而洋溢。
Because the ministry of this service is not only filling up the lack of the saints, but is also abounding through many thanksgivings to God.
9:13 他们因着你们承认基督的福音而有的服从，以及你们对他们和众人慷慨的交通，就称许这供给的事，藉以荣耀神。
They, through the approving of this ministry, are glorifying God based upon the subjection unto the gospel of Christ that issues from your confession, and upon
the liberality of the fellowship to them and to all;
9:14 他们也因神在你们身上超越的恩典，切切的想念你们，为你们祈求。
While in petition on your behalf they also long after you on account of the surpassing grace of God upon you.
9:15 感谢神，为着祂难以形容的恩赐。
Thanks be to God for His indescribable gift!
哥林多后书 2 Corinthians 第 10 章
10:1 然而我保罗，就是那如你们所说，在你们中间，见面的时候是卑鄙的，不在的时候，向你们却是放胆的，亲自借着基督的温柔与和蔼劝你们，
But I myself, Paul, entreat you through the meekness and gentleness of Christ, who (as you say) in person am base among you, but while absent am bold toward
you,
10:2 我甚至求你们不要叫我同在的时候，因自信而放胆，我凭这自信认为，我该勇敢对付那些认为我们是照着肉体行事的人。
I beseech you that when present I would not have to be bold in the confidence with which I count myself, to dare do to some who count us as ones who are
walking according to flesh.
10:3 因为我们虽然在肉体中行事，却不照着肉体争战。
For though we walk in flesh, we do not war according to flesh;
10:4 我们争战的兵器，本不是属肉体的，乃是在神面前有能力，可以攻倒坚固的营垒，
For the weapons of our warfare are not fleshly but powerful before God for the overthrowing of strongholds,
10:5 将理论和各样阻挡人认识神而立起的高寨，都攻倒了，又将各样的思想掳来，使它顺从基督，
As we overthrow reasonings and every high thing rising up against the knowledge of God, and take captive every thought unto the obedience of Christ.
10:6 并且我们已经预备好了，等你们完全顺从的时候，要责罚一切的不顺从。
And we are ready to punish all disobedience when your obedience is fulfilled.
10:7 你们是按外表看事情。若有人自信是属基督的，关于他自己，他要再想想，他是怎样属基督，我们也怎样是。
You look at things according to their appearance. If someone has confidence in himself to be of Christ, let him take account of this again concerning himself, that
even as he is of Christ, so also are we.
10:8 主赐给我们的权柄，是为建造，并不是为拆毁你们，我即使为这权柄稍微过多的夸口，也不至于惭愧。
For even if I should boast somewhat more abundantly concerning our authority, which the Lord has given for building you up and not for overthrowing you, I will
not be put to shame.
10:9 我说这话，为免我像是写信威吓你们。
I say this so as not to seem as if I am terrifying you through my letters,
10:10 因为有人说，他的信又沉重，又强硬，他亲身的同在却是软弱，言语又是可鄙。
Because while his letters, someone says, are weighty and strong, his bodily presence is weak and his speech contemptible.
10:11 这等人当想，我们不在的时候，信上的言语怎样，同在的时候，行事也必怎样。
Let such a one take account of this, that such as we are in word by letters when absent, such also we are in deed when present.
10:12 因为我们不敢将自己，和那些自荐的人同列相比，他们拿自己度量自己，拿自己比较自己，乃是不通达的。
For we do not dare to class or compare ourselves with any of those who commend themselves; but they, measuring themselves by themselves and comparing
themselves with themselves, are without understanding.
10:13 我们却不要过了度量夸口，只要照度量的神所分给我们尺度的度量夸口，这度量甚至远达你们。
But we will not boast beyond our measure but according to the measure of the rule which the God of measure has apportioned to us, to reach even as far as you.
10:14 我们并非过度伸展自己，好像达不到你们，因为在基督的福音上，我们是最先来的，甚至远及你们。
For we are not extending ourselves beyond our bounds, as if we did not reach you, for we were the first to come even as far as unto you in the gospel of Christ.
10:15 我们不凭别人的劳碌过度夸口，但盼望随着你们信心的增长，照着我们的尺度，因着你们得以丰盛的扩大，
We are not boasting beyond our measure in others' labors, but have the hope, as your faith is increasing, to be magnified in you according to our rule unto
abundance,
10:16 将福音传到你们以外的地方，并不是在别人的尺度之内，凭现成的事夸口。
So that we may announce the gospel unto those parts beyond you, not so that we may boast in another man's rule in things already prepared.
10:17 但夸口的当在主里夸口，
1104
But he who boasts, let him boast in the Lord;
10:18 因为蒙称许的，不是自己推荐的，乃是主所推荐的。
For it is not the one who commends himself who is approved, but the one whom the Lord commends.
哥林多后书 2 Corinthians 第 11 章
11:1 我愿你们容忍我一点愚妄，其实你们确是容忍我的。
I wish that you would bear with me in a little foolishness; but indeed you do bear with me.
11:2 我以神的妒忌，妒忌你们，因为我曾把你们许配一个丈夫，要将一个贞洁的童女献给基督。
For I am jealous over you with a jealousy of God; for I betrothed you to one husband to present you as a pure virgin to Christ.
11:3 我只怕你们的心思或被败坏，失去那向着基督的单纯和纯洁，就像蛇用诡诈诱骗了夏娃一样。
But I fear lest somehow, as the serpent deceived Eve by his craftiness, your thoughts would be corrupted from the simplicity and the purity toward Christ.
11:4 假若有人来，传另一位耶稣，不是我们所传过的，或者你们接受了一个不同的灵，不是你们所接受过的，或者接受了一个不同的福音，不是你们所接
受过的，你们还好好的容忍他！
For if indeed he who comes preaches another Jesus, whom we have not preached, or you receive a different spirit, which you have not received, or a different
gospel, which you have not accepted, you bear well with him.
11:5 但我认为，自己一点没有赶不上那些超级的使徒。
But I count myself to be inferior to the super-apostles in nothing.
11:6 我即使在言语上是常人，在知识上却不然；其实我们在凡事上，在各方面，都已经向你们显明了。
But even if I am a layman in speech, yet I am not in knowledge; indeed in every way we have made this manifest in all things to you.
11:7 我因为白白传神的福音给你们，就卑屈自己，为叫你们升高，这是我犯了罪么？
Or did I commit a sin, abasing myself that you might be exalted, because I announced the gospel of God to you free of charge?
11:8 我剥夺了别的召会，取了工价，为着服事你们。
I robbed other churches, taking wages for the ministry to you.
11:9 我在你们那里缺乏的时候，并没有累着你们一个人，因我所缺乏的，那从马其顿来的弟兄们都补足了。我向来凡事自守，不累着你们，将来也必自守。
And when I was present with you and lacked, I was not a burden to anyone; for the brothers who came from Macedonia filled up my lack, and in everything I
kept myself from being burdensome to you, and will keep myself.
11:10 基督的真实在我里面，这夸口在亚该亚一带，是不会在我身上被堵住的。
The truthfulness of Christ is in me, that this boasting shall not be stopped as it regards me in the regions of Achaia.
11:11 为什么？是因我不爱你们么？神晓得。
Why? Because I do not love you? God knows.
11:12 我现在所作的，将来还要作，为要断绝那些要得机会者的机会，使他们在所夸的事上，给人看出也不过与我们一样。
But what I do, I also will do, that I may cut off the opportunity of those desiring an opportunity, that in the thing in which they boast, they may be found even as we.
11:13 那等人是假使徒，是诡诈的工人，装作基督的使徒。
For such ones are false apostles, deceitful workers, transfiguring themselves into apostles of Christ.
11:14 这并不希奇，因为撒但自己也装作光的使者。
And no wonder, for Satan himself transfigures himself into an angel of light.
11:15 所以他的差役若也装作义的差役，并不算大事，他们的结局，必然照着他们所作的。
Therefore it is no great thing if also his ministers transfigure themselves into ministers of righteousness, whose end will be according to their works.
11:16 我再说，人不可把我看作愚妄的；纵然如此，也要把我当作愚妄人接纳，叫我也可以略略夸口。
Again I say, Let no one think me to be foolish; but if otherwise, accept me even as if I were foolish, that I also may boast a little.
11:17 我所说的，不是照着主说的，乃像在愚妄中，因自信而这样夸口。
What I speak, I speak not according to the Lord but as if in foolishness, in this confidence of boasting.
11:18 既有好些人照着肉体夸口，我也要夸口，
Since many boast according to the flesh, I also will boast.
11:19 因你们是精明人，喜欢容忍愚妄人。
For you bear gladly with fools because you yourselves are wise.
11:20 若有人强制你们作奴隶，若有人侵吞你们，若有人掳掠你们，若有人高举自己，若有人打你们的脸，你们都会容忍！
For you bear it if anyone enslaves you, if anyone devours you, if anyone takes you, if anyone lifts himself up, if anyone beats you in the face.
11:21 我自贱的说，我们从前太软弱了！然而，我愚妄的说，人在何事上勇敢，我也勇敢。
By way of self-disparagement I say this, Supposedly we ourselves were weak. But in whatever anyone else is daring, I speak in foolishness, I also am daring.
11:22 他们是希伯来人么？我也是。他们是以色列人么？我也是。他们是亚伯拉罕的后裔么？我也是。
Hebrews are they? I also. Israelites are they? I also. The seed of Abraham are they? I also.
11:23 他们是基督的执事么？我疯狂的说，我更是！论劳苦，是更多的；论下监，是更多的；论鞭打，是过重的；论冒死，是屡次有的。
Ministers of Christ are they? I speak as being beside myself, I more so! In labors more abundantly, in imprisonments more abundantly, in stripes excessively, in
deaths often.
11:24 我给犹太人鞭打五次，每次四十，减去一下；
Under the hands of the Jews five times I received forty stripes less one;
11:25 给棍打了三次，给石头打了一次，遇着船坏三次，在深海里过了一昼一夜；
Three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked, a night and a day I have spent in the deep;
11:26 屡次行远路，遭江河的危险、盗贼的危险、同族的危险、外邦人的危险、城里的危险、旷野的危险、海中的危险、假弟兄中的危险；
In journeys often, in dangers of rivers, in dangers of robbers, in dangers from my race, in dangers from the Gentiles, in dangers in the city, in dangers in the
wilderness, in dangers in the sea, in dangers among false brothers;
11:27 劳碌辛苦，论儆醒，是多次的；论饥渴、论不食，是多次的；论寒冷和赤身─
In labor and hardship; in watchings often; in hunger and thirst; in fastings often; in cold and nakedness --
1105
11:28 除了没有提起的事，还有为众召会的挂虑，天天压在我身上。
Apart from the things which have not been mentioned, there is this: the crowd of cares pressing upon me daily, the anxious concern for all the churches.
11:29 有谁软弱，我不软弱？有谁绊跌，我不焦急？
Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who is stumbled, and I myself do not burn?
11:30 我若必须夸口，就要夸我软弱的事。
If I must boast, I will boast of the things of my weakness.
11:31 主耶稣的神与父，就是那当受颂赞直到永远的，知道我不说谎。
The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, He who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying.
11:32 在大马色，亚哩达王手下的提督，把守大马色人的城，要捉拿我，
In Damascus, the governor under Aretas the king guarded the city of the Damascenes in order to seize me;
11:33 我就从窗户中，在筐子里给人从城墙上缒下去，逃脱了他的手。
And in a basket I was lowered through a window, through the wall, and escaped his hands.
哥林多后书 2 Corinthians 第 12 章
12:1 夸口固然无益，但我是不得已的。我要来说主的异象和启示。
To boast is necessary, though indeed not expedient; yet I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord.
12:2 我认得一个在基督里的人，十四年前，这样的一位被提，直到第三层天里，（或在身内，我不晓得，或在身外，我也不晓得，只有神晓得。）
I know a man in Christ, fourteen years ago (whether in the body I do not know, or outside the body I do not know; God knows) such a one was caught away to
the third heaven.
12:3 并且我认得这样一个人，（或在身内，或在身外，我都不晓得，只有神晓得，）
And I know such a man (whether in the body or outside the body, I do not know; God knows),
12:4 他被提进乐园里，听见不能言传的话语，是人不可说的。
That he was caught away into Paradise and heard unspeakable words, which it is not allowed for a man to speak.
12:5 为这样的一位，我要夸口，但是为我自己，除了我的软弱以外，我并不夸口。
On behalf of such a one I will boast, but on behalf of myself I will not boast, except in my weaknesses.
12:6 我即使愿意夸口，也不是愚妄，因为我必说真话，只是我惜口不说，恐怕有人评估我，过于他在我身上所看见的，或从我所听见的。
For if I desire to boast, I will not be foolish, for I will speak the truth; but I refrain lest anyone account of me something above what he sees me to be or hears from
me.
12:7 又恐怕我因所得启示的超越，就过于高抬自己，所以有一根刺，就是撒但的使者，加在我的肉体上，为要攻击我，免得我过于高抬自己。
And because of the transcendence of the revelations, in order that I might not be exceedingly lifted up, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of
Satan, that he might buffet me, in order that I might not be exceedingly lifted up.
12:8 为这事，我三次求过主，叫这刺离开我。
Concerning this I entreated the Lord three times that it might depart from me.
12:9 祂对我说，我的恩典够你用的，因为我的能力，是在人的软弱上显得完全。所以我极其喜欢夸我的软弱，好叫基督的能力覆庇我。
And He has said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for My power is perfected in weakness. Most gladly therefore I will rather boast in my weaknesses that the
power of Christ might tabernacle over me.
12:10 因此，我为基督的缘故，就以软弱、凌辱、贫困、逼迫、困苦为可喜悦的，因我什么时候软弱，什么时候就有能力了。
Therefore I am well pleased in weaknesses, in insults, in necessities, in persecutions and distresses, on behalf of Christ; for when I am weak, then I am powerful.
12:11 我成了愚妄人，是你们强逼我的。我本该为你们所推荐，因为我即使算不了什么，也没有一点赶不上那些超级的使徒。
I have become foolish; you yourselves have compelled me. For it is I who should have been commended by you; for in nothing am I inferior to the super-apostles,
even though I am nothing.
12:12 我使徒的记号，确已在你们中间，以全般的忍耐，借着神迹、奇事和异能，完全显出来了。
Indeed the signs of an apostle were wrought among you in all endurance by signs and wonders and works of power.
12:13 因为除了我自己不累着你们以外，你们还有什么事不及其余的召会？这不公之处，你们饶恕我吧！
For what is there in which you were treated in a manner inferior to the rest of the churches, except that I myself was not a burden to you? Graciously forgive me
this injustice!
12:14 看哪，这是我第三次预备好，要到你们那里去，也必不累着你们，因我所寻求的不是你们的东西，乃是你们自己。因为儿女不该为父母积蓄，父母
乃该为儿女积蓄。
Behold, this third time I am ready to come to you, and I will not be a burden; for I do not seek what is yours but you. For the children ought not to store up for the
parents, but the parents for the children.
12:15 我极其喜欢为你们花费，并完全花上自己。难道我越发爱你们，就越发少得你们的爱么？
But I, I will most gladly spend and be utterly spent on behalf of your souls. If I love you more abundantly, am I loved less?
12:16 罢了！我并没有加给你们担子，你们却有人说，我是狡猾诡诈，用诡计牢笼你们。
But let it be so! I did not burden you; but, as some of you say, being crafty, I took you by guile.
12:17 我所差到你们那里去的人，我借着其中一个占过你们的便宜么？
Did I take advantage of you through anyone whom I have sent to you?
12:18 我劝了提多，又差了那位弟兄同去。提多占过你们的便宜么？我们行事，不是在同一的灵里么？不是在同一的脚踪里么？
I entreated Titus and sent with him the brother. Titus did not take advantage of you, did he? Did we not walk in the same spirit? In the same steps?
12:19 你们一向以为我们是向你们分诉，我们乃是在基督里当着神面前说话。亲爱的，一切的事都是为建造你们。
All this time you have been thinking that we are defending ourselves to you. Before God in Christ we speak; but all things, beloved, are for your building up.
12:20 我怕我来的时候，或许见到你们不合我所想要的，你们见到我也不合你们所想要的；又怕有争竞、嫉妒、恼怒、私图好争、诽谤、谗言、自高自大、
混乱的事；
For I fear that perhaps when I come, I may find you not such as I wish, and I may be found by you not such as you wish; that perhaps there may be strife, jealousy,
outbursts of anger, selfish ambitions, slanders, whisperings, demonstrations of being puffed up, tumults;
1106
12:21 且怕我再来的时候，我的神在你们面前卑屈我，我还要为那许多从前犯罪，还没有悔改他们所行污秽淫乱邪荡之事的人哀恸。
That when I come again my God may humble me before you and I may mourn over many who have sinned before and who have not repented of the
uncleanness and fornication and licentiousness which they have practiced.
哥林多后书 2 Corinthians 第 13 章
13:1 这是我第三次要到你们那里去，凭两三个见证人的口，句句都要定准。
This third time I am coming to you; at the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established.
13:2 我从前说过，现今不在的时候，事先又对那些从前犯了罪的，和所有其余的人说，正如我第二次同在的时候所说的；我若再来，必不宽容，
I have previously said and I say beforehand, when I was present the second time and being absent now, to those who have sinned before and to all the rest, that
if I come again, I will not spare,
13:3 因为你们寻求基督在我里面说话的凭证。基督向着你们不是软弱的，在你们里面乃是有大能的。
Since you seek a proof of the Christ who is speaking in me, who is not weak unto you but is powerful in you.
13:4 祂固然由于软弱被钉十字架，却由于神的大能仍然活着。我们在祂里面也是软弱，但由于神向着你们的大能，必与祂同活。
For indeed He was crucified out of weakness, but He lives by the power of God. For indeed we are weak in Him, but we will live together with Him by the power of
God directed toward you.
13:5 你们要试验自己是否在信仰中；你们要验证自己。岂不知你们有耶稣基督在你们里面么？除非你们是经不起试验的。
Test yourselves whether you are in the faith; prove yourselves. Or do you not realize about yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you, unless you are disapproved?
13:6 我却盼望你们晓得，我们不是经不起试验的。
But I hope that you will know that we are not disapproved.
13:7 我们求神，叫你们一件恶事都不作。这不是要显明我们是经得起试验的，乃是要你们行善，让我们就像是经不起试验的吧！
Now we pray to God that you do nothing wrong, not that we may appear approved, but that you yourselves may do what is good and we may be as if
disapproved.
13:8 因为我们不能作任何事抵挡真理，只能拥护真理。
For we are not able to do anything against the truth but rather for the truth.
13:9 无论何时我们软弱，你们有能力，我们就喜乐了；我们还祈求一件事，就是你们被成全。
For we rejoice whenever we are weak and you are powerful; this also we pray for, your perfecting.
13:10 所以我不在的时候，写这些事，好叫我同在的时候，不必照着主所赐给我的权柄，严厉的待你们；这权柄是为着建造人，并不是为着拆毁人。
Therefore I write these things while being absent in order that when present I would not have to use severity, according to the authority which the Lord has given
me for building up and not for overthrowing.
13:11 末了，弟兄们，要喜乐，要被成全，要受安慰，要思念相同的事，要和睦，如此那爱与和平的神，必与你们同在。
Finally, brothers, rejoice, be perfected, be comforted, think the same thing, be at peace; and the God of love and peace will be with you.
13:12 你们要用圣别的亲嘴彼此问安。
Greet one another with a holy kiss.
13:13 众圣徒都问你们安。
All the saints greet you.
13:14 愿主耶稣基督的恩，神的爱，圣灵的交通，与你们众人同在。
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all.
1107
48. 加拉太书 Galatians
加拉太书 Galatians 第 1 章
1:1 作使徒的保罗，（不是由于人，也不是借着人，乃是借着耶稣基督，和叫祂从死人中复活的父神，）
Paul, an apostle (not from men nor through man but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised Him from the dead),
1:2 并一切与我同在的众弟兄，写信给加拉太的众召会：
And all the brothers who are with me, to the churches of Galatia:
1:3 愿恩典与平安，从神我们的父，并主耶稣基督归与你们。
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ,
1:4 基督照着我们神与父的旨意，为我们的罪舍了自己，要把我们从现今这邪恶的世代救出来。
Who gave Himself for our sins that He might rescue us out of the present evil age according to the will of our God and Father,
1:5 愿荣耀归与祂，直到永永远远。阿们。
To whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
1:6 我希奇你们这么快离开那在基督的恩典里召了你们的，去归向不同的福音。
I marvel that you are so quickly removing from Him who has called you in the grace of Christ to a different gospel,
1:7 那并不是另一个福音，不过是有些人搅扰你们，想要转变基督的福音。
Which is not another gospel, only there are some who trouble you and desire to pervert the gospel of Christ.
1:8 但即使是我们，或是从天上来的使者，若在我们所传给你们的福音之外，另传一个福音给你们，他就该受咒诅。
But if even we or an angel out of heaven should announce to you a gospel beyond that which we have announced to you, let him be accursed.
1:9 我们先前说过，现在我再说，若有人在你们所领受的之外，另传一个福音给你们，他就该受咒诅。
As we have said before, now also I say again, If anyone announces to you a gospel beyond that which you have received, let him be accursed.
1:10 我现在是要得人的心，还是要得神的心？或者我是要讨人的喜悦么？若我仍讨人的喜悦，我就不是基督的奴仆了。
For am I now trying to win the assent of men or of God? Or am I seeking to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a slave of Christ.
1:11 弟兄们，我要你们知道，那借着我所传的福音，并不是照着人意的，
For I make known to you, brothers, concerning the gospel announced by me, that it is not according to man.
1:12 因为我不是从人领受的，也不是人教导我的，乃是借着耶稣基督的启示领受的。
For neither did I receive it from man, nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation by Jesus Christ.
1:13 你们听过我从前在犹太教中所行的事，怎样极力逼迫神的召会，并损毁神的召会。
For you have heard of my manner of life formerly in Judaism, that I persecuted the church of God excessively and ravaged it.
1:14 我又在犹太教中，比我本族许多同岁的人更有长进，为我祖宗的传统格外热心。
And I advanced in Judaism beyond many contemporaries in my race, being more abundantly a zealot for the traditions of my fathers.
1:15 然而那把我从母腹里分别出来，又借着祂的恩典呼召我的神，
But when it pleased God, who set me apart from my mother's womb and called me through His grace,
1:16 既然乐意将祂儿子启示在我里面，叫我把祂当作福音传在外邦人中，我就即刻没有与血肉之人商量，
To reveal His Son in me that I might announce Him as the gospel among the Gentiles, immediately I did not confer with flesh and blood,
1:17 也没有上耶路撒冷，去见那些比我先作使徒的，却往亚拉伯去，后又回到大马色。
Neither did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away to Arabia and again returned to Damascus.
1:18 过了三年，才上耶路撒冷去访问矶法，和他同住了十五天。
Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas, and I remained with him fifteen days.
1:19 至于别的使徒，除了主的兄弟雅各，我都没有见过。
But I saw none of the other apostles except James, the brother of the Lord.
1:20 我写给你们的，并不是谎言，看哪，我是在神面前说的。
Now concerning the things which I am writing to you, behold, before God, I am not lying.
1:21 后来我到了叙利亚和基利家一带。
Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia.
1:22 那时，犹太在基督里的众召会，都还没有见面认识我，
Yet I was still unknown by face to the churches of Judea, which are in Christ.
1:23 不过听说，那从前一直逼迫他们的，现在将他原先所损毁的信仰当作福音传扬。
But they only heard this: He who was formerly persecuting us is now announcing as the gospel the faith which formerly he ravaged.
1:24 他们就因着我荣耀神。
And they glorified God because of me.
加拉太书 Galatians 第 2 章
2:1 过了十四年，我同巴拿巴，也带着提多，再上耶路撒冷去。
Then after a period of fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking Titus with me also.
2:2 我是照着启示上去的，把我在外邦人中所传的福音，对他们陈述；只是私下对那些有名望的人说；惟恐我现在，或是从前，徒然奔跑。
And I went up according to revelation, and I laid before them the gospel which I proclaim among the Gentiles, but privately to those who were of repute, lest
perhaps I should be running, or had run, in vain.
2:3 但与我同去的提多，虽是希利尼人，也没有被勉强受割礼；
But not even Titus, who was with me, though he is a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised;
2:4 因为有偷着引进来的假弟兄，他们偷着进来，要窥探我们在基督耶稣里所得的自由，为要强制我们作奴隶；
And this, because of the false brothers, brought in secretly, who stole in to spy out our freedom which we have in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into
slavery.
1108
2:5 我们就是一刻的工夫，也没有容让服从他们，为要使福音的真理存留在你们中间。
To them we yielded with the subjection demanded not even for an hour, that the truth of the gospel might remain with you.
2:6 至于那些有名望的，不论他们从前是何等人，于我都没有差别；神不以外貌取人；那些有名望的，并没有加给我什么；
But from those who were reputed to be something -- whatever they were makes no difference to me; God does not accept man's person; for to me those who
were of repute added nothing.
2:7 反倒看见我受托传福音给那未受割礼的人，正如彼得受托传福音给那受割礼的人，
But on the contrary, seeing that I had been entrusted with the gospel to the uncircumcision, even as Peter with the gospel to the circumcision,
2:8 （因为那在彼得里面运行，叫他为受割礼之人尽使徒职分的，也在我里面运行，叫我为外邦人尽使徒的职分，）
(For He who operated in Peter for the apostleship to the circumcision operated also in me for the Gentiles),
2:9 又知道所赐给我的恩典，那被视为柱石的雅各、矶法、约翰，就向我和巴拿巴伸出右手彼此相交，叫我们往外邦人那里去，他们却往受割礼的人那里
去；
And perceiving the grace given to me, James and Cephas and John, who were reputed to be pillars, gave to me and to Barnabas the right hand of fellowship
that we should go to the Gentiles, and they, to the circumcision.
2:10 只是要我们记念穷人，这也是我本来热诚去行的。
Only they requested that we remember the poor, which very thing I was also eager to do.
2:11 但矶法来到安提阿的时候，因他有可定罪之处，我就当面抵挡他。
But when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face because he stood condemned.
2:12 因为从雅各那里来的几个人，未到以先，他惯常和外邦人一同吃饭；及至他们来到，他因怕奉割礼的人，就开始退去，隔离自己。
For before some came from James, he continually ate with the Gentiles; but when they came, he began to shrink back and separate himself, fearing those of the
circumcision.
2:13 其余的犹太人，也都随着他装假；甚至连巴拿巴也被牵引，和他们一同装假。
And the rest of the Jews also joined him in this hypocrisy, so that even Barnabas was carried away in their hypocrisy.
2:14 但我一看见他们不按福音的真理正直而行，就在众人面前对矶法说，你既是犹太人，若是生活像外邦人，不像犹太人，怎么还勉强外邦人犹太化？
But when I saw that they were not walking in a straightforward way in relation to the truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas before them all, If you, being a Jew, live
like the Gentiles and not like the Jews, how is it that you compel the Gentiles to live like the Jews?
2:15 我们是生来的犹太人，并不是出于外邦的罪人，
We are Jews by nature and not sinners from among the Gentiles;
2:16 且知道人得称义，不是本于行律法，乃是借着信耶稣基督，连我们也信入了基督耶稣，使我们本于信基督得称义，不是本于行律法；因为凡属肉体的
人，都不能本于行律法得称义。
And knowing that a man is not justified out of works of law, but through faith in Jesus Christ, we also have believed into Christ Jesus that we might be justified out
of faith in Christ and not out of the works of law, because out of the works of law no flesh will be justified.
2:17 我们若寻求在基督里得称义，自己却也显为罪人，这样，基督岂不是叫人犯罪的么？绝对不是。
But if, while seeking to be justified in Christ, we ourselves also have been found sinners, is then Christ a minister of sin? Absolutely not!
2:18 因为我所拆毁的，若再建造，就证明自己是个有过犯的人。
For if I build again the things which I have destroyed, I prove myself to be a transgressor.
2:19 我借着律法，已经向律法死了，叫我可以向神活着。
For I through law have died to law that I might live to God.
2:20 我已经与基督同钉十字架；现在活着的，不再是我，乃是基督在我里面活着；并且我如今在肉身里所活的生命，是我在神儿子的信里，与祂联结所活
的，祂是爱我，为我舍了自己。
I am crucified with Christ; and it is no longer I who live, but it is Christ who lives in me; and the life which I now live in the flesh I live in faith, the faith of the Son of
God, who loved me and gave Himself up for me.
2:21 我不废弃神的恩；因为义若是借着律法得的，基督就是白白死了。
I do not nullify the grace of God; for if righteousness is through law, then Christ has died for nothing.
加拉太书 Galatians 第 3 章
3:1 无知的加拉太人哪，耶稣基督钉十字架，已经活画在你们眼前，谁竟迷惑了你们？
O foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was openly portrayed crucified?
3:2 我只愿问你们这一件，你们接受了那灵，是本于行律法，还是本于听信仰？
This only I wish to learn from you, Did you receive the Spirit out of the works of law or out of the hearing of faith?
3:3 你们是这样的无知么？你们既靠那灵开始，如今还靠肉体成全么？
Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh?
3:4 你们受苦如此之多，都是徒然的么？难道果真是徒然的么？
Have you suffered so many things in vain, if indeed it was in vain?
3:5 这样，那丰富供应你们那灵，又在你们中间行异能的，是本于行律法，还是本于听信仰？
He therefore who bountifully supplies to you the Spirit and does works of power among you, does He do it out of the works of law or out of the hearing of faith?
3:6 正如“亚伯拉罕信神，这就算为他的义。”
Even as "Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness.''
3:7 所以你们要知道，那以信为本的人，就是亚伯拉罕的子孙。
Know then that they who are of faith, these are sons of Abraham.
3:8 并且圣经既预先看明，神要本于信称外邦人为义，就预先传福音给亚伯拉罕，说，“万国都必因你得福。”
And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles out of faith, announced the gospel beforehand to Abraham: "In you shall all the nations be
blessed.''
3:9 这样，那以信为本的人，便和那信的亚伯拉罕一同得福。
So then they who are of faith are blessed with believing Abraham.
1109
3:10 凡以行律法为本的，都在咒诅之下，因为经上记着：“凡不常常照着律法书上所记一切之事去行的，都是被咒诅的。”
For as many as are of the works of law are under a curse; for it is written, "Cursed is everyone who does not continue in all the things written in the book of the
law to do them.''
3:11 没有一个人凭着律法在神面前得称义，乃是明显的，因为“义人必本于信得生并活着；”
And that by law no one is justified before God is evident because, "The righteous one shall have life and live by faith'';
3:12 但律法不是本于信，只说，“行这些事的，必因这些事活着。”
But the law is not of faith, yet, "He who does them shall live because of them.''
3:13 基督既为我们成了咒诅，就赎出我们脱离律法的咒诅，因为经上记着：“凡挂在木头上的，都是被咒诅的，”
Christ has redeemed us out of the curse of the law, having become a curse on our behalf; because it is written, "Cursed is every one hanging on a tree'';
3:14 为叫亚伯拉罕的福，在基督耶稣里可以临到外邦人，使我们借着信，可以接受所应许的那灵。
In order that the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles in Christ Jesus, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.
3:15 弟兄们，我照着人的常话说，即使是人的约，若已经立定了，就没有人可以废弃，或加增的。
Brothers, I speak according to man, though it is a man's covenant, yet when it has been ratified, no one nullifies it or makes additions to it.
3:16 应许原是向亚伯拉罕和他后裔说的。并不是说，“和众后裔，”像是指着许多人，乃是说，“和你那后裔，”指着一个人，就是基督。
But to Abraham were the promises spoken and to his seed. He does not say, "And to the seeds,'' as concerning many, but as concerning one: "And to your
seed,'' who is Christ.
3:17 而且我这样说，神预先所立定的约，不能被那四百三十年以后才有的律法废掉，以致使应许失效。
And I say this: A covenant previously ratified by God, the law, having come four hundred and thirty years after, does not annul so as to make the promise of none
effect.
3:18 因为承受产业若是本于律法，就不再本于应许；但神已经借着应许，将产业恩赐亚伯拉罕。
For if the inheritance is of law, it is no longer of promise; but to Abraham God has graciously given it through promise.
3:19 这样，律法是为什么有的？乃是因过犯添上的，直等那蒙应许的后裔来到；并且是藉天使经中保之手设立的。
Why then the law? It was added because of the transgressions until the seed should come to whom the promise was made, it being ordained through angels in
the hand of a mediator.
3:20 但中保不是一面的，神却是一位。
But a mediator is not a mediator for one, but God is one.
3:21 这样，律法是与神的应许相反么？绝对不是！因为若曾赐给一个能赐生命的律法，义就真是本于律法了。
Is then the law against the promises of God? Absolutely not! For if a law had been given which was able to give life, righteousness would have indeed been of
law.
3:22 但圣经把众人都圈在罪里，好叫那以信耶稣基督为本的应许，可以赐给那些信的人。
But the Scripture has shut up all under sin in order that the promise out of faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe.
3:23 但信仰还未来到以先，我们是被看守在律法之下，被圈住好归于那要显示的信仰。
But before faith came we were guarded under law, being shut up unto the faith which was to be revealed.
3:24 这样，律法成了我们的儿童导师，带我们归于基督，好使我们本于信得称义。
So then the law has become our child-conductor unto Christ that we might be justified out of faith.
3:25 但信仰既然来到，我们就不再在儿童导师的手下了，
But since faith has come, we are no longer under a child-conductor.
3:26 因为你们众人借着相信基督耶稣，都是神的儿子。
For you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus.
3:27 你们凡浸入基督的，都已经穿上了基督。
For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.
3:28 没有犹太人或希利尼人，没有为奴的或自主的，也没有男和女，因为你们众人在基督耶稣里，都是一了。
There cannot be Jew nor Greek, there cannot be slave nor free man, there cannot be male and female; for you are all one in Christ Jesus.
3:29 你们既属于基督，就是亚伯拉罕的后裔，是照着应许为后嗣了。
And if you are of Christ, then you are Abraham's seed, heirs according to promise.
加拉太书 Galatians 第 4 章
4:1 然而我说，后嗣几时还是孩童，他虽是全业的主人，却与奴仆毫无分别，
But I say, As long as the heir is a child, he does not differ at all from a slave, though he is lord of all;
4:2 乃是在监护人和管家的手下，直到父亲所预定的时候。
But he is under guardians and stewards until the time appointed by the father.
4:3 我们也是这样，为孩童的时候，受奴役于世上的蒙学之下；
So also we, when we were children, were kept in slavery under the elements of the world;
4:4 及至时候满足，神就差出祂的儿子，由女子所生，且生在律法以下，
But when the fullness of the time came, God sent forth His Son, born of a woman, born under law,
4:5 要把律法以下的人赎出来，好叫我们得着儿子的名分。
That He might redeem those under law that we might receive the sonship.
4:6 而且因你们是儿子，神就差出祂儿子的灵，进入我们的心，呼叫：阿爸，父！
And because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father!
4:7 这样，你不再是奴仆，乃是儿子了；既是儿子，也就借着神为后嗣。
So then you are no longer a slave but a son; and if a son, an heir also through God.
4:8 但从前你们不认识神的时候，是给那些本性上不是神的作奴仆。
However at that time, not knowing God, you were slaves to the gods which by nature are not gods;
4:9 现在你们既然认识神，更可说是神所认识的，怎么还要转向那软弱乏用的蒙学，情愿重新再给它们作奴仆？
1110
But now, having come to know God, or rather having been known by God, how is it that you turn again to the weak and poor elements, to which you desire to be
enslaved yet again?
4:10 你们谨守日子、月分、节期、年分；
You observe days and months and seasons and years;
4:11 我为你们害怕，惟恐我在你们身上是徒然劳苦。
I fear for you, lest I have labored upon you in vain.
4:12 弟兄们，我求你们要像我一样，因为我也像你们一样；你们一点没有亏负我。
Become as I am, because I also am as you are, brothers, I beseech you; you have not wronged me at all.
4:13 你们知道我初次传福音给你们，是因为肉身有疾病。
And you know that because of weakness of my flesh I announced the gospel to you the first time.
4:14 那在我肉身上成为你们试炼的，你们并没有轻看，也没有厌弃；反倒接待我，如同神的使者，如同基督耶稣。
And that which was a trial to you in my flesh you did not despise nor loathe, but you received me as an angel of God, indeed as Christ Jesus.
4:15 这样，你们当日所庆幸的福气在那里？我能给你们作见证，若是可能，那时你们已把自己的眼睛剜出来给我了。
Where then is your felicitation? For I testify concerning you that if possible you would have plucked out your eyes and given them to me.
4:16 现在我将真理告诉你们，就成了你们的仇敌么？
So then have I become your enemy by presenting the truth to you?
4:17 那些人热心待你们，不是好意，乃是要离间你们，叫你们热心待他们。
They are zealous of you, but not rightly; but they desire to shut you out that you may be zealous of them.
4:18 在善事上，常常热心待人，原是好的，却不单我与你们同在的时候才这样。
But it is always good to be zealous in a good thing, and not only when I am present with you.
4:19 我的孩子们，我为你们再受生产之苦，直等到基督成形在你们里面。
My children, with whom I travail again in birth until Christ is formed in you,
4:20 我巴不得现在与你们同在，改变我的口气，因我为你们心里作难。
Indeed, I wish I could be present with you now and change my tone because I am perplexed about you.
4:21 你们这愿意在律法以下的，请告诉我，你们岂没有听过律法么？
Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you not hear the law?
4:22 因为律法上记着，亚伯拉罕有两个儿子，一个是出于使女，一个是出于自主的妇人。
For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one of the maidservant and one of the free woman.
4:23 然而那出于使女的，是按着肉体生的；那出于自主妇人的，是借着应许生的。
However the one of the maidservant was born according to the flesh, but the one of the free woman was born through promise.
4:24 这些都是寓意：两个妇人就是两约，一个是出于西乃山，生子为奴，乃是夏甲。
These things are spoken allegorically, for these women are two covenants, one from Mount Sinai, bringing forth children unto slavery, which is Hagar.
4:25 这夏甲就是在亚拉伯的西乃山，相当于现在的耶路撒冷，因耶路撒冷同她的儿女都是作奴仆的。
Now this Hagar is Sinai the mountain in Arabia and corresponds to the Jerusalem which now is, for she is in slavery with her children.
4:26 但那在上的耶路撒冷是自主的，她是我们的母，
But the Jerusalem above is free, which is our mother;
4:27 因为经上记着：“那不生育，没有生产过的，你要快乐；那未曾经过产难的，你要放声呼喊，因为独居的，比有丈夫的儿女更多。”
For it is written, "Rejoice, barren one who does not bear; break forth and shout, you who are not travailing, because many are the children of her who is desolate
rather than of her who has her husband.''
4:28 弟兄们，你们乃是借着应许生的儿女，像以撒一样。
But you, brothers, in the way Isaac was, are children of promise.
4:29 只是，当时那按着肉体生的，怎样逼迫了那按着灵生的，现在也是这样。
But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is now.
4:30 然而经上是怎么说的？“把使女和她儿子赶出去，因为使女的儿子，绝不可与自主妇人的儿子一同承受产业。”
But what does the Scripture say? "Cast out the maidservant and her son, for the son of the maidservant shall by no means inherit with the son of the free
woman.''
4:31 所以，弟兄们，我们不是使女的儿女，乃是自主妇人的儿女了。
So then, brothers, we are not children of the maidservant but of the free woman.
加拉太书 Galatians 第 5 章
5:1 基督释放了我们，叫我们得以自由；所以要站立得住，不要再受奴役的轭挟制。
It is for freedom that Christ has set us free; stand fast therefore, and do not be entangled with a yoke of slavery again.
5:2 看哪，我保罗告诉你们，你们若受割礼，基督就于你们无益了。
Behold, I Paul say to you that if you become circumcised, Christ will profit you nothing.
5:3 我再对凡受割礼的人作见证，他是欠着行全律法债的人。
And I testify again to every man who becomes circumcised that he is a debtor to do the whole law.
5:4 你们这要靠律法得称义的，是与基督隔绝，从恩典中坠落了。
You have been brought to nought, separated from Christ, you who are being justified by law; you have fallen from grace.
5:5 我们靠着那灵，本于信，热切等待所盼望的义。
For we by the Spirit out of faith eagerly await the hope of righteousness.
5:6 因为在基督耶稣里，受割礼不受割礼，全无效力；惟独借着爱运行的信，才有效力。
For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision avails anything nor uncircumcision, but faith avails, operating through love.
5:7 你们向来跑得好，有谁拦阻你们，叫你们不信服真理？
You were running well. Who hindered you that you would not believe and obey the truth?
1111
5:8 这劝导不是出于那召你们的。
This persuasion is not of Him who calls you.
5:9 一点面酵能使全团都发起来。
A little leaven leavens the whole lump.
5:10 我在主里深信，你们不会有别的念头；但那搅扰你们的，无论是谁，必担受处罚。
I am confident in the Lord concerning you that you will be of no other mind; but he who is troubling you shall bear the judgment, whoever he may be.
5:11 至于我，弟兄们，如果我仍旧传割礼，为什么还受逼迫？若是这样，十字架这绊脚石就废去了。
But I, brothers, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still being persecuted? Then the stumbling block of the cross has been annulled.
5:12 我恨不得那些扰乱你们的人，甚至把自己割掉了。
I wish that those upsetting you would even cut themselves off.
5:13 弟兄们，你们蒙召原是为得自由；只是不可将自由当作放纵肉体的机会，倒要凭着爱互相服事。
For you were called for freedom, brothers; only do not turn this freedom into an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another.
5:14 因为全律法都在“要爱邻舍如同自己”这一句话之内，得以完全了。
For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, in this, "You shall love your neighbor as yourself.''
5:15 你们要谨慎，若相咬相吞，只怕要彼此销灭了。
But if you bite and devour one another, beware lest you be consumed by one another.
5:16 我说，你们当凭着灵而行，就绝不会满足肉体的情欲了。
But I say, Walk by the Spirit and you shall by no means fulfill the lust of the flesh.
5:17 因为肉体纵任贪欲，抵抗那灵，那灵也抵抗肉体，二者彼此敌对，使你们不能作所愿意的。
For the flesh lusts against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh; for these oppose each other that you would not do the things that you desire.
5:18 但你们若被那灵引导，就不在律法以下。
But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law.
5:19 肉体的行为，都是明显的，就是淫乱、污秽、邪荡、
And the works of the flesh are manifest, which are such things as fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness,
5:20 拜偶像、邪术、仇恨、争竞、忌恨、恼怒、私图好争、分立、宗派、
Idolatry, sorcery, enmities, strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, factions, divisions, sects,
5:21 嫉妒、醉酒、荒宴以及类似的事；关于这些事，我现在事先告诉你们，正如我先前说过的：行这样事的人，必不得承受神的国。
Envyings, bouts of drunkenness, carousings, and things like these, of which I tell you beforehand, even as I have said before, that those who practice such things
will not inherit the kingdom of God.
5:22 但那灵的果子，就是爱、喜乐、和平、恒忍、恩慈、良善、信实、
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness,
5:23 温柔、节制；这样的事，没有律法反对。
Meekness, self-control; against such things there is no law.
5:24 但那属基督耶稣的人，是已经把肉体连肉体的邪情私欲，都钉了十字架。
But they who are of Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and its lusts.
5:25 我们若凭着灵活着，也就当凭着灵而行。
If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit.
5:26 不要贪图虚荣，彼此惹气，互相嫉妒。
Let us not become vainglorious, provoking one another, envying one another.
加拉太书 Galatians 第 6 章
6:1 弟兄们，即使有人偶然为某种过犯所胜，你们属灵的人，也当用温柔的灵挽回这样的人，可是要当心自己，免得也被试诱。
Brothers, even if a man is overtaken in some offense, you who are spiritual restore such a one in a spirit of meekness, looking to yourself lest you also be tempted.
6:2 你们的重担要彼此担当，这样就完全满足了基督的律法。
Bear one another's burdens, and in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ completely.
6:3 人若不是什么，还以为是什么，就是自欺了。
For if anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing, he deceives himself.
6:4 各人应当验证自己的工作，这样，他所夸的就只在自己，不在别人了，
But let each man prove his own work, and then he will have his boast in regard to himself alone and not in regard to another.
6:5 因为各人必担当自己的担子。
For each one shall bear his own load.
6:6 只是那在话语上受教的，当与施教的人共同分享一切的美物。
But let him who is instructed in the word share in all good things with him who instructs.
6:7 不要受迷惑，神是嗤慢不得的，因为人种的是什么，收的也是什么。
Do not be deceived: God is not mocked; for whatever a man sows, this he will also reap.
6:8 为着自己的肉体撒种的，必从肉体收败坏；为着那灵撒种的，必从那灵收永远的生命。
For he who sows unto his own flesh will reap corruption of the flesh, but he who sows unto the Spirit will of the Spirit reap eternal life.
6:9 我们行善，不可丧志；因为若不灰心，到了适当的时候，就要收成。
And let us not lose heart in doing what is good, for in the proper season we will reap if we do not faint.
6:10 所以我们有了时机，就当向众人行善，尤其是向信仰之家的人。
So then, as we have the opportunity, let us do what is good toward all, but especially toward those of the household of the faith.
6:11 你们看，我亲手写给你们的字是何等的大。
See with what large letters I have written to you with my own hand.
6:12 凡在肉体上要体面的人，都想勉强你们受割礼，不过是免得为基督的十字架受逼迫。
1112
As many as desire to make a good show in the flesh, these compel you to be circumcised, but only that they may not be persecuted for the cross of Christ.
6:13 那些受割礼的，连自己也不守律法，他们却想要你们受割礼，好在你们的肉体上夸口。
For neither do they that become circumcised keep the law themselves, but they desire you to be circumcised that they may boast in your flesh.
6:14 但就我而论，除了我们主耶稣基督的十字架，别无可夸；借着祂，就我而论，世界已经钉了十字架；就世界而论，我也已经钉了十字架。
But far be it from me to boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom the world has been crucified to me and I to the world.
6:15 受割礼不受割礼，都无关紧要，要紧的乃是作新造。
For neither is circumcision anything nor uncircumcision, but a new creation is what matters.
6:16 凡照这准则而行的，愿平安怜悯临到他们，就是临到神的以色列。
And as many as walk by this rule, peace be upon them and mercy, even upon the Israel of God.
6:17 从今以后，人都不要搅扰我，因为我身体上带着耶稣的烙印。
Henceforth let no one trouble me, for I bear in my body the brands of Jesus.
6:18 弟兄们，愿我们主耶稣基督的恩与你们的灵同在。阿们。
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brothers. Amen.
1113
49. 以弗所书 Ephesians
以弗所书 Ephesians 第 1 章
1:1 凭神旨意，作基督耶稣使徒的保罗，写信给在以弗所的圣徒，就是在基督耶稣里的忠信者：
Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, to the saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in Christ Jesus:
1:2 愿恩典与平安，从神我们的父，并主耶稣基督归与你们。
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1:3 我们主耶稣基督的神与父，是当受颂赞的，祂在基督里，曾用诸天界里各样属灵的福分，祝福了我们；
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenlies in Christ,
1:4 就如祂在创立世界以前，在基督里拣选了我们，使我们在爱里，在祂面前，成为圣别、没有瑕疵；
Even as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world to be holy and without blemish before Him in love,
1:5 按着祂意愿所喜悦的，预定了我们，借着耶稣基督得儿子的名分，归于祂自己，
Predestinating us unto sonship through Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the good pleasure of His will,
1:6 使祂恩典的荣耀得着称赞，这恩典是祂在那蒙爱者里面所恩赐我们的；
To the praise of the glory of His grace, with which He graced us in the Beloved;
1:7 我们在这蒙爱者里面，借着祂的血，照着神恩典的丰富，得蒙救赎，就是过犯得以赦免，
In whom we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of offenses, according to the riches of His grace,
1:8 这恩典是神用全般的智慧和明达，使其向我们洋溢的，
Which He caused to abound to us in all wisdom and prudence,
1:9 照着祂的喜悦，使我们知道祂意愿的奥秘；这喜悦是祂在自己里面预先定下的，
Making known to us the mystery of His will according to His good pleasure, which He purposed in Himself,
1:10 为着时期满足时的经纶，要将万有，无论是在诸天之上的，或是在地上的，都在基督里归一于一个元首之下；
Unto the economy of the fullness of the times, to head up all things in Christ, the things in the heavens and the things on the earth, in Him;
1:11 我们既在祂里面，照着那位按祂意愿所决议的，行作万事者的定旨，蒙了预定，也就在祂里面成了所选定的基业，
In whom also we were designated as an inheritance, having been predestinated according to the purpose of the One who works all things according to the
counsel of His will,
1:12 以致我们这首先在基督里有盼望的人，可使祂的荣耀得着称赞；
That we would be to the praise of His glory who have first hoped in Christ.
1:13 你们既听了真理的话，就是那叫你们得救的福音，也在祂里面信了，就在祂里面受了所应许的圣灵为印记；
In whom you also, having heard the word of the truth, the gospel of your salvation, in Him also believing, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of the promise,
1:14 这圣灵是我们得基业的凭质，为使神所买的产业得赎，使祂的荣耀得着称赞。
Who is the pledge of our inheritance unto the redemption of the acquired possession, to the praise of His glory.
1:15 因此，我既听见你们中间对主耶稣的信，并对众圣徒的爱，
Therefore I also, having heard of the faith in the Lord Jesus which is among you and your love to all the saints,
1:16 也就为你们不住的感谢，在我的祷告中常提到你们；
Do not cease giving thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers,
1:17 愿我们主耶稣基督的神，荣耀的父，赐给你们智慧和启示的灵，使你们充分的认识祂；
That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you a spirit of wisdom and revelation in the full knowledge of Him,
1:18 光照你们的心眼，使你们知道祂的呼召有何等盼望；祂在圣徒中之基业的荣耀，有何等丰富；
The eyes of your heart having been enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of His calling, and what are the riches of the glory of His inheritance in the
saints,
1:19 以及祂的能力向着我们这信的人，照祂力量之权能的运行，是何等超越的浩大，
And what is the surpassing greatness of His power toward us who believe, according to the operation of the might of His strength,
1:20 就是祂在基督身上所运行的，使祂从死人中复活，叫祂在诸天界里，坐在自己的右边，
Which He caused to operate in Christ in raising Him from the dead and seating Him at His right hand in the heavenlies,
1:21 远超过一切执政的、掌权的、有能的、主治的、以及一切受称之名，不但是今世的，连来世的也都在内，
Far above all rule and authority and power and lordship and every name that is named not only in this age but also in that which is to come;
1:22 将万有服在祂的脚下，并使祂向着召会作万有的头；
And He subjected all things under His feet and gave Him to be Head over all things to the church,
1:23 召会是祂的身体，是那在万有中充满万有者的丰满。
Which is His Body, the fullness of the One who fills all in all.
以弗所书 Ephesians 第 2 章
2:1 而你们原是死在过犯并罪之中，
And you, though dead in your offenses and sins,
2:2 那时，你们在其中行事为人，随着这世界的世代，顺着空中掌权者的首领，就是那现今在悖逆之子里面运行之灵的首领；
In which you once walked according to the age of this world, according to the ruler of the authority of the air, of the spirit which is now operating in the sons of
disobedience;
2:3 我们众人从前也都在他们中间，在我们肉体的私欲里，行事为人，行肉体和思念所意欲的，生来就是可怒的儿女，和其余的人一样；
Among whom we also all conducted ourselves once in the lusts of our flesh, doing the desires of the flesh and of the thoughts, and were by nature children of
wrath, even as the rest;
2:4 然而神富于怜悯，因祂爱我们的大爱，
But God, being rich in mercy, because of His great love with which He loved us,
1114
2:5 竟然在我们因过犯死了的时候，便叫我们一同与基督活过来，（你们得救是靠着恩典，）
Even when we were dead in offenses, made us alive together with Christ (by grace you have been saved)
2:6 祂又叫我们在基督耶稣里一同复活，一同坐在诸天界里，
And raised us up together with Him and seated us together with Him in the heavenlies in Christ Jesus,
2:7 好在要来的诸世代中，显示祂在基督耶稣里，向我们所施恩慈中恩典超越的丰富。
That He might display in the ages to come the surpassing riches of His grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus.
2:8 你们得救是靠着恩典，借着信；这并不是出于你们，乃是神的恩赐；
For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this not of yourselves; it is the gift of God;
2:9 也不是出于行为，免得有人夸口。
Not of works that no one should boast.
2:10 我们原是神的杰作，在基督耶稣里，为着神早先预备好，要我们行在其中的善良事工创造的。
For we are His masterpiece, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand in order that we would walk in them.
2:11 所以你们应当记念，你们从前在肉身上是外邦人，是那些凭人手所行，在肉身上称为受割礼之人，所称为未受割礼的；
Therefore remember that once you, the Gentiles in the flesh, those who are called uncircumcision by that which is called circumcision in the flesh made by hands,
2:12 那时，你们在基督以外，和以色列国民隔绝，在所应许的诸约上是局外人，在世上没有指望，没有神。
That you were at that time apart from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers to the covenants of the promise, having no hope and
without God in the world.
2:13 但如今在基督耶稣里，你们这从前远离的人，靠着基督的血，已经得亲近了。
But now in Christ Jesus you who were once far off have become near in the blood of Christ.
2:14 因祂自己是我们的和平，将两下作成一个，拆毁了中间隔断的墙，就是仇恨，
For He Himself is our peace, He who has made both one and has broken down the middle wall of partition, the enmity,
2:15 在祂的肉体里，废掉了那规条中诫命的律法，好把两下在祂自己里面，创造成一个新人，成就了和平；
Abolishing in His flesh the law of the commandments in ordinances, that He might create the two in Himself into one new man, so making peace,
2:16 既用十字架除灭了仇恨，便藉这十字架，使两下在一个身体里与神和好了；
And might reconcile both in one Body to God through the cross, having slain the enmity by it.
2:17 又来传和平为福音，给你们这远离的人，也传和平为福音，给那相近的人，
And coming, He announced peace as the gospel to you who were far off, and peace to those who were near,
2:18 因为借着祂，我们两下在一位灵里，得以进到父面前。
For through Him we both have access in one Spirit unto the Father.
2:19 这样，你们不再是外人和寄居的，乃是圣徒同国之民，是神家里的亲人，
So then you are no longer strangers and sojourners, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God,
2:20 被建造在使徒和申言者的根基上，有基督耶稣自己作房角石；
Being built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone;
2:21 在祂里面，全房联结一起，长成在主里的圣殿；
In whom all the building, being fitted together, is growing into a holy temple in the Lord;
2:22 你们也在祂里面同被建造，成为神在灵里的居所。
In whom you also are being built together into a dwelling place of God in spirit.
以弗所书 Ephesians 第 3 章
3:1 因这缘故，我这为你们外邦人作基督耶稣囚犯的保罗，为你们祈求─
For this cause I Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus on behalf of you, the Gentiles --
3:2 谅必你们曾听见那为着你们所赐给我，神恩典的管家职分，
If indeed you have heard of the stewardship of the grace of God which was given to me for you,
3:3 就是照着启示使我知道这奥秘，正如我前面略略写过的，
That by revelation the mystery was made known to me, as I have written previously in brief,
3:4 你们念了，就能藉此明了我对基督的奥秘所有的领悟，
By which, in reading it, you can perceive my understanding in the mystery of Christ,
3:5 这奥秘在别的世代中，未曾给人们的子孙知道，像如今在灵里启示祂的圣使徒和申言者一样；
Which in other generations was not made known to the sons of men, as it has now been revealed to His holy apostles and prophets in spirit,
3:6 就是外邦人在基督耶稣里，借着福音得以同为后嗣，同为一个身体，并同为应许的分享者；
That in Christ Jesus the Gentiles are fellow heirs and fellow members of the Body and fellow partakers of the promise through the gospel,
3:7 我作了这福音的执事，是照着神恩典的恩赐，这恩赐是照着祂大能的运行所赐给我的。
Of which I became a minister according to the gift of the grace of God which was given to me according to the operation of His power.
3:8 这恩典赐给了我这比众圣徒中最小者还小的，叫我将基督那追测不尽的丰富，当作福音传给外邦人，
To me, less than the least of all saints, was this grace given to announce to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ as the gospel
3:9 并将那历世历代隐藏在创造万有之神里的奥秘有何等的经纶，向众人照明，
And to enlighten all that they may see what the economy of the mystery is, which throughout the ages has been hidden in God, who created all things,
3:10 为要借着召会，使诸天界里执政的、掌权的，现今得知神万般的智慧，
In order that now to the rulers and the authorities in the heavenlies the multifarious wisdom of God might be made known through the church,
3:11 这是照着祂在我们的主基督耶稣里，所立的永远定旨；
According to the eternal purpose which He made in Christ Jesus our Lord,
3:12 在祂里面，我们借着信祂，就笃信不疑，放心大胆的进到神面前。
In whom we have boldness and access in confidence through faith in Him.
3:13 所以我求你们，不要因我为你们所受的患难丧胆，这原是你们的荣耀。
1115
Therefore I ask you not to faint at my afflictions for your sake, since they are your glory.
3:14 因这缘故，我向父屈膝，
For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father,
3:15 在诸天里以及在地上的各家族，都是从祂得名，
Of whom every family in the heavens and on earth is named,
3:16 愿祂照着祂荣耀的丰富，借着祂的灵，用大能使你们得以加强到里面的人里，
That He would grant you, according to the riches of His glory, to be strengthened with power through His Spirit into the inner man,
3:17 使基督借着信，安家在你们心里，叫你们在爱里生根立基，
That Christ may make His home in your hearts through faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love,
3:18 使你们满有力量，能和众圣徒一同领略何为那阔、长、高、深，
May be full of strength to apprehend with all the saints what the breadth and length and height and depth are
3:19 并认识基督那超越知识的爱，使你们被充满，成为神一切的丰满。
And to know the knowledge-surpassing love of Christ, that you may be filled unto all the fullness of God.
3:20 然而神能照着运行在我们里面的大能，极其充盈的成就一切，超过我们所求所想的；
But to Him who is able to do superabundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power which operates in us,
3:21 愿在召会中，并在基督耶稣里，荣耀归与祂，直到世世代代，永永远远。阿们。
To Him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus unto all the generations forever and ever. Amen.
以弗所书 Ephesians 第 4 章
4:1 所以我这在主里的囚犯劝你们，行事为人要与你们所蒙的呼召相配，
I beseech you therefore, I, the prisoner in the Lord, to walk worthily of the calling with which you were called,
4:2 凡事卑微、温柔、恒忍，在爱里彼此担就，
With all lowliness and meekness, with long-suffering, bearing one another in love,
4:3 以和平的联索，竭力保守那灵的一：
Being diligent to keep the oneness of the Spirit in the uniting bond of peace:
4:4 一个身体和一位灵，正如你们蒙召，也是在一个盼望中蒙召的；
One Body and one Spirit, even as also you were called in one hope of your calling;
4:5 一主，一信，一浸；
One Lord, one faith, one baptism;
4:6 一位众人的神与父，就是那超越众人，贯彻众人，也在众人之内的。
One God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all.
4:7 但恩典赐给我们各人，是照着基督恩赐的度量。
But to each one of us grace was given according to the measure of the gift of Christ.
4:8 所以经上说，“祂既升上高处，就掳掠了那些被掳的，将恩赐赐给人。”
Therefore the Scripture says, "Having ascended to the height, He led captive those taken captive and gave gifts to men.''
4:9 （若非祂也曾降到地的低下之处，“祂升上”是什么意思？
(Now this, "He ascended,'' what is it except that He also descended into the lower parts of the earth?
4:10 那降下的，也是那升上，远超诸天之上，为要充满万有的。）
He who descended, He is also the One who ascended far above all the heavens that He might fill all things.)
4:11 祂所赐的，有些是使徒，有些是申言者，有些是传福音者，有些是牧人和教师，
And He Himself gave some as apostles and some as prophets and some as evangelists and some as shepherds and teachers,
4:12 为要成全圣徒，目的是为着职事的工作，为着建造基督的身体，
For the perfecting of the saints unto the work of the ministry, unto the building up of the Body of Christ,
4:13 直到我们众人都达到了信仰上并对神儿子之完全认识上的一，达到了长成的人，达到了基督丰满之身材的度量，
Until we all arrive at the oneness of the faith and of the full knowledge of the Son of God, at a full-grown man, at the measure of the stature of the fullness of
Christ,
4:14 使我们不再作小孩子，为波浪漂来漂去，并为一切教训之风所摇荡，这教训是在于人的欺骗手法，在于将人引入错谬系统的诡诈作为；
That we may be no longer little children tossed by waves and carried about by every wind of teaching in the sleight of men, in craftiness with a view to a system
of error,
4:15 惟在爱里持守着真实，我们就得以在一切事上长到祂，就是元首基督里面；
But holding to truth in love, we may grow up into Him in all things, who is the Head, Christ,
4:16 本于祂，全身借着每一丰富供应的节，并借着每一部分依其度量而有的功用，得以联络在一起，并结合在一起，便叫身体渐渐长大，以致在爱里把自
己建造起来。
Out from whom all the Body, being joined together and being knit together through every joint of the rich supply and through the operation in the measure of
each one part, causes the growth of the Body unto the building up of itself in love.
4:17 所以我这样说，且在主里见证，你们行事为人，不要再像外邦人在他们心思的虚妄里行事为人，
This therefore I say and testify in the Lord, that you no longer walk as the Gentiles also walk in the vanity of their mind,
4:18 他们在悟性上既然昏暗，就因着那在他们里面的无知，因着他们心里的刚硬，与神的生命隔绝了；
Being darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance which is in them, because of the hardness of their heart;
4:19 他们感觉既然丧尽，就任凭自己放荡，以致贪行种种的污秽。
Who, being past feeling, have given themselves over to lasciviousness to work all uncleanness in greediness.
4:20 但你们并不是这样学了基督；
But you did not so learn Christ,
4:21 如果你们真是听过祂，并在祂里面，照着那在耶稣身上是实际者，受过教导，
1116
If indeed you have heard Him and have been taught in Him as the reality is in Jesus,
4:22 在从前的生活样式上，脱去了旧人，这旧人是照着那迷惑的情欲败坏的；
That you put off, as regards your former manner of life, the old man, which is being corrupted according to the lusts of the deceit,
4:23 而在你们心思的灵里得以更新，
And that you be renewed in the spirit of your mind
4:24 并且穿上了新人，这新人是照着神，在那实际的义和圣中所创造的。
And put on the new man, which was created according to God in righteousness and holiness of the reality.
4:25 所以你们既已脱去谎言，各人就要与邻舍说实话，因为我们是互相为肢体。
Therefore having put off the lie, speak truth each one with his neighbor, for we are members one of another.
4:26 生气却不要犯罪，不可含怒到日落，
Be angry, yet do not sin; do not let the sun go down on your indignation,
4:27 也不可给魔鬼留地步。
Neither give place to the devil.
4:28 偷窃的不要再偷，倒要劳力，亲手作正经事，好有所分给需要的人。
He who steals should steal no more, but rather should labor, working with his own hands in that which is respectable, that he may have something to share with
him who has need.
4:29 败坏的话一句都不可出口，只要按需要说建造人的好话，好将恩典供给听见的人。
Let no corrupt word proceed out of your mouth, but only that which is good for building up, according to the need, that it may give grace to those who hear.
4:30 并且不要叫神的圣灵忧愁，你们原是在祂里面受了印记，直到得赎的日子。
And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, in whom you were sealed unto the day of redemption.
4:31 一切苦毒、恼恨、忿怒、喧嚷、毁谤，同一切的恶毒，都要从你们中间除掉。
Let all bitterness and anger and wrath and clamor and evil speaking be removed from you, with all malice.
4:32 你们要以恩慈相待，心存慈怜，彼此饶恕，正如神在基督里饶恕了你们一样。
And be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God in Christ also forgave you.
以弗所书 Ephesians 第 5 章
5:1 所以你们要效法神，好像蒙爱的儿女一样；
Be therefore imitators of God, as beloved children;
5:2 也要在爱里行事为人，正如基督爱我们，为我们舍了自己，作供物和祭物献与神，成为馨香之气。
And walk in love, even as Christ also loved us and gave Himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling savor.
5:3 至于淫乱、并一切污秽、或是贪婪，在你们中间连提都不可，如此才与圣徒相宜；
But fornication and all uncleanness or greediness, let it not even be named among you, as is fitting for saints,
5:4 还有淫辞、妄语、或是粗鄙的戏言，都不相宜，宁可说感谢的话。
And obscenity and foolish talking or sly, filthy jesting, which are not becoming, but rather the giving of thanks.
5:5 因为你们晓得这事，知道凡是淫乱的，或是污秽的，或是贪婪的，（就是拜偶像的，）在基督和神的国里，都得不到基业。
For this you realize, knowing that every fornicator or unclean person or greedy person (who is an idolater) has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
5:6 不要让人用虚空的话欺骗你们，因这些事，神的忿怒正临到那悖逆之子。
Let no one deceive you with vain words, for because of these things the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience.
5:7 所以你们不要与他们同伙。
Therefore do not be partakers with them;
5:8 你们从前是黑暗，但如今在主里面乃是光，行事为人就要像光的儿女，
For you were once darkness but are now light in the Lord; walk as children of light
5:9 （光的果子是在于一切的善、义和真实，）
(For the fruit of the light consists in all goodness and righteousness and truth),
5:10 要验证何为主所喜悦的，
Proving what is well pleasing to the Lord.
5:11 不要有分于黑暗无果子的行为，倒要责备，
And do not participate in the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather even reprove them.
5:12 因为他们所行隐密的事，就是提起来也是可耻的。
For the things which are done by them in secret it is shameful even to speak of.
5:13 一切事受了责备，就被光显明了；因为凡将事显明的，就是光。
But all things which are reproved are made manifest by the light; for everything that makes manifest is light.
5:14 所以祂说，睡着的人哪，要起来，要从死人中站起来，基督就要光照你了。
Therefore He says, Awake, sleeper, and arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you.
5:15 你们要仔细留意怎样行事为人，不要像不智慧的人，乃要像有智慧的人；
Look therefore carefully how you walk, not as unwise, but as wise,
5:16 要赎回光阴，因为日子邪恶。
Redeeming the time, because the days are evil.
5:17 所以不要作愚昧人，却要明白什么是主的旨意。
Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is.
5:18 不要醉酒，醉酒使人放荡，乃要在灵里被充满，
And do not be drunk with wine, in which is dissoluteness, but be filled in spirit,
5:19 用诗章、颂辞、灵歌，彼此对说，从心中向主歌唱、颂咏，
Speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and psalming with your heart to the Lord,
1117
5:20 凡事要在我们主耶稣基督的名里，时常感谢神与父，
Giving thanks at all times for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ to our God and Father,
5:21 凭着敬畏基督，彼此服从：
Being subject to one another in the fear of Christ:
5:22 作妻子的，要服从自己的丈夫，如同服从主；
Wives, be subject to your own husbands as to the Lord;
5:23 因为丈夫是妻子的头，如同基督是召会的头；祂自己乃是身体的救主。
For a husband is head of the wife as also Christ is Head of the church, He Himself being the Savior of the Body.
5:24 召会怎样服从基督，妻子也要照样凡事服从丈夫。
But as the church is subject to Christ, so also let the wives be subject to their husbands in everything.
5:25 作丈夫的，要爱你们的妻子，正如基督爱召会，为召会舍了自己，
Husbands, love your wives even as Christ also loved the church and gave Himself up for her
5:26 好圣化召会，借着话中之水的洗涤洁净召会，
That He might sanctify her, cleansing her by the washing of the water in the word,
5:27 祂好献给自己，作荣耀的召会，没有斑点、皱纹、或任何这类的病，好使她成为圣别、没有瑕疵。
That He might present the church to Himself glorious, not having spot or wrinkle or any such things, but that she would be holy and without blemish.
5:28 丈夫也当照样爱自己的妻子，如同爱自己的身体；爱自己妻子的，便是爱自己了。
In the same way the husbands also ought to love their own wives as their own bodies; he who loves his own wife loves himself.
5:29 从来没有人恨恶自己的身体，总是保养顾惜，正像基督待召会一样，
For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, even as Christ also the church,
5:30 因为我们是祂身体上的肢体。
Because we are members of His Body.
5:31 为这缘故，人要离开父母，与妻子联合，二人成为一体。
For this cause a man shall leave his father and mother and shall be joined to his wife, and the two shall be one flesh.
5:32 这是极大的奥秘，但我是指着基督与召会说的。
This mystery is great, but I speak with regard to Christ and the church.
5:33 然而你们每一个人，也要这样各爱自己的妻子，如同爱自己一样；妻子也要敬畏丈夫。
Nevertheless you also, each one of you, in the same way love your own wife as yourself; and the wife should fear her husband.
以弗所书 Ephesians 第 6 章
6:1 作儿女的，要在主里顺从你们的父母，因为这是正当的。
Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.
6:2 a
"Honor your father and mother,'' which is the first commandment with a promise,
6:3 “要孝敬父母，使你亨通，在世长寿。”这是第一条带应许的诫命。
"That it may be well with you and that you may live long on the earth.''
6:4 作父亲的，不要惹你们儿女的气，只要用主的管教和警戒养育他们。
And fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but nurture them in the discipline and admonition of the Lord.
6:5 作奴仆的，要恐惧战兢的，凭心中的单纯，顺从肉身的主人，如同顺从基督一样。
Slaves, be obedient to those who are your masters according to the flesh with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as to Christ;
6:6 不要只在眼前事奉，像是讨人喜欢的，乃要像基督的奴仆，从心里实行神的旨意，
Not with eye-service as men-pleasers but as slaves of Christ, doing the will of God from the soul;
6:7 用善意服事，好像对主，不像对人；
With good will serving as slaves, as serving the Lord and not men;
6:8 晓得各人，或是为奴的，或是自主的，无论行了什么善，都必从主得着赏报。
Knowing that whatever good thing each one does, this he will receive back from the Lord, whether he is a slave or a free man.
6:9 作主人的，也要同样待奴仆，放弃威吓，知道他们和你们的主人，乃是在诸天之上，祂并不偏待人。
And masters, do the same things toward them, giving up your threatening, knowing that both their Master and yours is in the heavens, and there is no respect of
persons with Him.
6:10 末了的话，你们要在主里，靠着祂力量的权能，得着加力。
Finally, be empowered in the Lord and in the might of His strength.
6:11 要穿戴神全副的军装，使你们能以站住，抵挡魔鬼的诡计，
Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the stratagems of the devil,
6:12 因我们并不是与血肉之人摔跤，乃是与那些执政的、掌权的、管辖这黑暗世界的、以及诸天界里那邪恶的属灵势力摔跤。
For our wrestling is not against blood and flesh but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the world-rulers of this darkness, against the spiritual
forces of evil in the heavenlies.
6:13 所以要拿起神全副的军装，使你们在邪恶的日子能以抵挡，并且作成了一切，还能站立得住。
Therefore take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.
6:14 所以要站住，用真理束你们的腰，穿上义的胸甲，
Stand therefore, having girded your loins with truth and having put on the breastplate of righteousness
6:15 且以和平福音的稳固根基，当作鞋穿在脚上；
And having shod your feet with the firm foundation of the gospel of peace;
6:16 此外，拿起信的盾牌，藉此就能销灭那恶者一切火烧的箭。
Besides all these, having taken up the shield of faith, with which you will be able to quench all the flaming darts of the evil one.
1118
6:17 还要借着各样的祷告和祈求，接受救恩的头盔，并那灵的剑，那灵就是神的话；
And receive the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which Spirit is the word of God,
6:18 时时在灵里祷告，并尽力坚持，在这事上儆醒，且为众圣徒祈求，
By means of all prayer and petition, praying at every time in spirit and watching unto this in all perseverance and petition concerning all the saints,
6:19 也替我祈求，使我在开口的时候，有发表赐给我，好放胆讲明福音的奥秘，
And for me, that utterance may be given to me in the opening of my mouth, to make known in boldness the mystery of the gospel,
6:20 （我为这福音的奥秘，作了带锁炼的大使，）使我带着锁炼，照我所当讲的，放胆讲说。
For which I am an ambassador in a chain, that in it I would speak boldly, as I ought to speak.
6:21 但为叫你们知道关于我的事，我的景况如何，有亲爱的弟兄，在主里忠信的执事推基古，要将一切全告诉你们，
But that you also may know the things concerning me, how I am doing, Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, will make all things known
to you.
6:22 我特为这事，打发他到你们那里去，好叫你们知道关于我们的事，并叫他安慰你们的心。
Him I have sent to you for this very thing, that you may know the things concerning us and that he may comfort your hearts.
6:23 愿平安与爱同着信，从父神并主耶稣基督归与弟兄们。
Peace to the brothers and love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
6:24 愿恩典与一切在不朽坏之中，爱我们主耶稣基督的人同在。
Grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ in incorruptibility.
1119
50. 腓立比书 Philippians
腓立比书 Philippians 第 1 章
1:1 基督耶稣的奴仆，保罗和提摩太，写信给所有在腓立比，在基督耶稣里的圣徒，同诸位监督和诸位执事：
Paul and Timothy, slaves of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi, with the overseers and deacons:
1:2 愿恩典与平安，从神我们的父，并主耶稣基督归与你们。
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1:3 我每逢想念你们，就感谢我的神；
I thank my God upon all my remembrance of you,
1:4 每逢为你们众人祈求的时候，总是欢欢喜喜的祈求，
Always in my every petition on behalf of you all, making my petition with joy,
1:5 为了你们从头一天直到如今，在推广福音上所有的交通；
For your fellowship unto the furtherance of the gospel from the first day until now,
1:6 我深信那在你们里面开始了善工的，必完成这工，直到基督耶稣的日子。
Being confident of this very thing, that He who has begun in you a good work will complete it until the day of Christ Jesus;
1:7 我为你们众人有这样的想法，原是应当的，因为你们有我在你们心里，无论我在捆锁之中，或在辩护、证实福音的时候，你们众人都与我同享恩典。
Even as it is right for me to think this concerning you all because you have me in your heart, since both in my bonds and in the defense and confirmation of the
gospel you are all fellow partakers with me of grace.
1:8 神可为我作见证，我在基督耶稣的心肠里，怎样切切的想念你们众人。
For God is my witness how I long after you all in the inward parts of Christ Jesus.
1:9 我所祷告的，就是要你们的爱，在充足的知识并一切的辨识上，多而又多的洋溢，
And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in full knowledge and all discernment,
1:10 使你们能鉴赏那更美、不同的事，好叫你们纯诚无过，直到基督的日子，
So that you may approve by testing the things which differ and are more excellent, that you may be pure and without offense unto the day of Christ,
1:11 结满了那借着耶稣基督而有的义果，使荣耀称赞归与神。
Being filled with the fruit of righteousness, which is through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
1:12 弟兄们，我愿意你们知道，我所遭遇的事，更是为着福音的进展，
Now I want you to know, brothers, that the things concerning me have turned out rather to the advancement of the gospel,
1:13 以致我的捆锁，在御营全军，和所有其余的人中，已经显明是为基督的缘故。
So that my bonds have become manifest as being in Christ among the whole Praetorian guard and to all the rest.
1:14 并且大多数的弟兄们，因我的捆锁，在主里笃信不疑，越发放胆讲说神的话，无所惧怕。
And most of the brothers, being confident in the Lord because of my bonds, are more exceedingly bold to speak the word of God without fear.
1:15 有的人传基督，是因着嫉妒争竞，也有的是因着好意：
Some preach Christ even because of envy and strife, and some also because of good will,
1:16 这一等是出于爱，知道我是为辩护福音设立的，
These out of love, knowing that I am set for the defense of the gospel.
1:17 那一等宣传基督，却是出于私图好争，并不纯洁，想要加重我捆锁的苦楚。
But the others announce Christ out of selfish ambition, not purely, thinking to raise up affliction in my bonds.
1:18 这有何妨呢？或假意，或真诚，无论怎样，基督究竟被宣传开了，为此我就欢喜，并且还要欢喜；
What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truthfulness, Christ is announced; and in this I rejoice; yes, and I will rejoice;
1:19 因为我知道，这事借着你们的祈求，和耶稣基督之灵全备的供应，终必叫我得救。
For I know that for me this will turn out to salvation through your petition and the bountiful supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
1:20 这是照着我所专切期待并盼望的，就是没有一事会叫我羞愧，只要凡事放胆，无论是生，是死，总叫基督在我身体上，现今也照常显大，
According to my earnest expectation and hope that in nothing I will be put to shame, but with all boldness, as always, even now Christ will be magnified in my
body, whether through life or through death.
1:21 因为在我，活着就是基督，死了就有益处。
For to me, to live is Christ and to die is gain.
1:22 但我在肉身活着，若使我的工作有果子，我就不知道该挑选什么。
But if I am to live in the flesh, if this to me is fruit for my work, then I do not know what I will choose.
1:23 我正困迫于两难之间，情愿离世与基督同在，因为那是好得无比的；
But I am constrained between the two, having the desire to depart and be with Christ, for this is far better;
1:24 然而留在肉身，为你们更是需要的。
But to remain in the flesh is more necessary for your sake.
1:25 我既然这样深信，就知道仍要留下，继续与你们众人同住，使你们得到信仰上的进步和喜乐，
And being confident of this, I know that I will remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy of the faith,
1:26 好叫你们的夸耀，在基督耶稣里，因我再到你们那里去，就在我身上得以洋溢。
That your boast may abound in Christ Jesus in me through my coming again to you.
1:27 只要你们行事为人配得过基督的福音，叫我或来见你们，或不在你们那里，可以听见关于你们的事，就是你们在一个灵里站立得住，同魂与福音的信
仰一齐努力；
Only, conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ, that whether coming and seeing you or being absent, I may hear of the things concerning
you, that you stand firm in one spirit, with one soul striving together along with the faith of the gospel,
1:28 凡事不为敌人所惊吓：这是证明他们灭亡，你们得救，而且这样的证明乃是从神而来的；
And in nothing being frightened by the opposers, which is to them a proof of their destruction, but of your salvation, and that from God;
1:29 因为你们是为了基督的缘故蒙恩，不但得以信入祂，也得以为祂受苦，
Because to you it has been graciously granted on behalf of Christ not only to believe into Him but also to suffer on His behalf,
1120
1:30 经历你们在我身上从前所看见，现在所听见同样的争战。
Having the same struggle which you saw in me and now hear to be in me.
腓立比书 Philippians 第 2 章
2:1 所以在基督里若有什么鼓励，若有什么爱的安慰，若有什么灵的交通，若有什么慈心、怜恤，
If there is therefore any encouragement in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any fellowship of spirit, if any tenderheartedness and compassions,
2:2 你们就要使我的喜乐满足，就是要思念相同的事，有相同的爱，魂里联结，思念同一件事，
Make my joy full, that you think the same thing, having the same love, joined in soul, thinking the one thing,
2:3 凡事都不私图好争，也不贪图虚荣，只要心思卑微，各人看别人比自己强；
Doing nothing by way of selfish ambition nor by way of vainglory, but in lowliness of mind considering one another more excellent than yourselves;
2:4 各人不单看重自己的长处，也看重别人的。
Not regarding each his own virtues, but each the virtues of others also.
2:5 你们里面要思念基督耶稣里面所思念的：
Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus,
2:6 祂本有神的形状，不以自己与神同等为强夺之珍，紧持不放，
Who, existing in the form of God, did not consider being equal with God a treasure to be grasped,
2:7 反而倒空自己，取了奴仆的形状，成为人的样式；
But emptied Himself, taking the form of a slave, becoming in the likeness of men;
2:8 既显为人的样子，就降卑自己，顺从至死，且死在十字架上。
And being found in fashion as a man, He humbled Himself, becoming obedient even unto death, and that the death of a cross.
2:9 所以神将祂升为至高，又赐给祂那超乎万名之上的名，
Therefore also God highly exalted Him and bestowed on Him the name which is above every name,
2:10 叫天上的、地上的和地底下的，在耶稣的名里，万膝都要跪拜，
That in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the earth,
2:11 万口都要公开承认耶稣基督为主，使荣耀归与父神。
And every tongue should openly confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.
2:12 这样，我亲爱的，你们既是常顺从的，不但我与你们同在的时候，就是我如今不在的时候，更是顺从的，就当恐惧战兢，作成你们自己的救恩，
So then, my beloved, even as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only but now much rather in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear
and trembling;
2:13 因为乃是神为着祂的美意，在你们里面运行，使你们立志并行事。
For it is God who operates in you both the willing and the working for His good pleasure.
2:14 凡所行的，都不要发怨言，起争论，
Do all things without murmurings and reasonings
2:15 使你们无可指摘、纯洁无杂，在弯曲悖谬的世代中，作神无瑕疵的儿女；你们在其中好像发光之体显在世界里，
That you may be blameless and guileless, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and perverted generation, among whom you shine as
luminaries in the world,
2:16 将生命的话表明出来，叫我在基督的日子，好夸我没有空跑，也没有徒劳。
Holding forth the word of life, so that I may have a boast in the day of Christ that I did not run in vain nor labor in vain.
2:17 然而，即使我成为奠祭，浇奠在你们信心的祭物和供奉上，也是喜乐，并且与你们众人一同喜乐。
But even if I am being poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice, and I rejoice together with you all.
2:18 你们也要同样喜乐，并且与我一同喜乐。
And in like manner you also rejoice, and you rejoice together with me.
2:19 我在主耶稣里，盼望快打发提摩太到你们那里去，叫我知道关于你们的事，也可魂中快慰。
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you shortly, that I also may be encouraged by knowing the things concerning you.
2:20 因我没有人与我同魂，真正关心你们的事，
For I have no one like-souled who will genuinely care for what concerns you;
2:21 因为众人都寻求自己的事，并不寻求基督耶稣的事。
For all seek their own things, not the things of Christ Jesus.
2:22 但你们知道提摩太蒙称许的明证，他为着福音与我一同事奉，像儿子待父亲一样。
But you know his approvedness, that as a child with a father he has served with me unto the gospel.
2:23 所以我一旦看出我的事要怎样了结，就盼望立刻打发他去；
Him therefore I hope to send immediately, as soon as I see how things go with me.
2:24 但我在主里深信，我自己也必快去。
But I trust in the Lord that I myself also will come shortly.
2:25 然而，我认为必须打发以巴弗提到你们那里去，他是我的弟兄、同工、并一同当兵的，也是你们的使徒，和供应我需用的供奉者。
But I considered it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow worker and fellow soldier, and your apostle and minister to my need,
2:26 他很想念你们众人，并且极其难过，因你们听见他病了，
Since he longed after you all and was greatly distressed because you heard that he had become sick;
2:27 他实在是病了，几乎要死；然而神怜悯他，不但怜悯他，也怜悯我，免得我忧上加忧。
For indeed he had become sick, near to death, but God had mercy on him, and not on him only but also on me that I might not have sorrow upon sorrow.
2:28 所以我越发急切打发他去，叫你们再见到他，就可以喜乐，我也可以少些忧愁。
I have sent him therefore the more eagerly, so that when you see him again, you may rejoice and I may be less sorrowful.
2:29 因此你们要在主里欢欢喜喜的接待他，并且要尊重这样的人，
Receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy, and hold such in honor,
1121
2:30 因他为基督的工作，冒着性命的危险，几乎至死，要补足你们在供奉我的事上所有的短缺。
Because for the work of Christ he drew near unto death, risking his life, that he might fill up your lack of service toward me.
腓立比书 Philippians 第 3 章
3:1 还有，我的弟兄们，你们要在主里喜乐。把同样的话写给你们，于我并不为难，于你们却是妥当。
Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you, for me it is not irksome, but for you it is safe.
3:2 你们要提防犬类，提防作恶的，提防妄自行割的。
Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the concision.
3:3 真受割礼的，乃是我们这凭神的灵事奉，在基督耶稣里夸口，不信靠肉体的。
For we are the circumcision, the ones who serve by the Spirit of God and boast in Christ Jesus and have no confidence in the flesh,
3:4 其实我也可以信靠肉体；若别人自以为可以信靠肉体，我更可以：
Though I myself have something to be confident of in the flesh as well. If any other man thinks that he has confidence in the flesh, I more:
3:5 论割礼，我是第八天受的，我是出于以色列族便雅悯支派，是希伯来人所生的希伯来人；按律法说，是法利赛人；
Circumcised the eighth day; of the race of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew born of Hebrews; as to the law, a Pharisee;
3:6 按热心说，是逼迫召会的；按律法上的义说，是无可指摘的。
As to zeal, persecuting the church; as to the righteousness which is in the law, become blameless.
3:7 只是从前我以为对我是赢得的，这些，我因基督都已经看作亏损。
But what things were gains to me, these I have counted as loss on account of Christ.
3:8 不但如此，我也将万事看作亏损，因我以认识我主基督耶稣为至宝；我因祂已经亏损万事，看作粪土，为要赢得基督，
But moreover I also count all things to be loss on account of the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, on account of whom I have suffered the loss
of all things and count them as refuse that I may gain Christ
3:9 并且给人看出我是在祂里面，不是有自己那本于律法的义，乃是有那借着信基督而有的义，就是那基于信、本于神的义，
And be found in Him, not having my own righteousness which is out of the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is out of God and
based on faith,
3:10 使我认识基督、并祂复活的大能、以及同祂受苦的交通，模成祂的死，
To know Him and the power of His resurrection and the fellowship of His sufferings, being conformed to His death,
3:11 或者我可以达到那从死人中杰出的复活。
If perhaps I may attain to the out-resurrection from the dead.
3:12 这不是说，我已经得着了，或已经完全了，我乃是竭力追求，或者可以取得基督耶稣所以取得我的。
Not that I have already obtained or am already perfected, but I pursue, if even I may lay hold of that for which I also have been laid hold of by Christ Jesus.
3:13 弟兄们，我不是以为自己已经取得了，我只有一件事，就是忘记背后，努力面前的，
Brothers, I do not account of myself to have laid hold; but one thing I do: Forgetting the things which are behind and stretching forward to the things which are
before,
3:14 向着标竿竭力追求，要得神在基督耶稣里，召我向上去得的奖赏。
I pursue toward the goal for the prize to which God in Christ Jesus has called me upward.
3:15 所以我们凡是长成的人，都要思念这事；你们若思念任何别的事，神也必将这事启示你们。
Let us therefore, as many as are full-grown, have this mind; and if in anything you are otherwise minded, this also God will reveal to you.
3:16 然而，我们无论到了什么地步，都当按着那同一规则而行。
Nevertheless whereunto we have attained, by the same rule let us walk.
3:17 弟兄们，你们要一同效法我，你们怎样以我们为榜样，也当留意那些这样行的人。
Be imitators together of me, brothers, and observe those who thus walk even as you have us as a pattern.
3:18 因为有许多人，就是那些我屡次告诉你们，现在又流泪告诉你们的，他们的行事为人，是基督十字架的仇敌，
For many walk, of whom I have told you often and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ,
3:19 他们的结局就是灭亡，他们的神就是自己的肚腹，他们以自己的羞辱为荣耀，是思念地上之事的人。
Whose end is destruction, whose god is their stomach, and whose glory is in their shame, who set their minds on earthly things.
3:20 我们的国籍乃是在诸天之上，我们也热切等待救主，就是主耶稣基督，从那里降临；
For our commonwealth exists in the heavens, from which also we eagerly await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,
3:21 祂要按着祂那甚至能叫万有归服自己的动力，将我们这卑贱的身体改变形状，使之同形于祂荣耀的身体。
Who will transfigure the body of our humiliation to be conformed to the body of His glory, according to His operation by which He is able even to subject all things
to Himself.
腓立比书 Philippians 第 4 章
4:1 所以，我所亲爱所切慕的弟兄们，我的喜乐和冠冕─亲爱的，你们要这样在主里站立得住。
So then, my brothers, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, in the same way stand firm in the Lord, beloved.
4:2 我劝友欧底亚，也劝循都基，要在主里思念相同的事。
I exhort Euodias, and I exhort Syntyche, to think the same thing in the Lord.
4:3 是的，我也求你这真实同负一轭的，帮助她们；她们在福音上曾与我和革利免、并我其余的同工一同努力，他们的名字都在生命册上。
Yes, I ask you also, genuine yokefellow, assist them, since they contended with me in the gospel, as well as with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers,
whose names are in the book of life.
4:4 你们要在主里常常喜乐，我再说，你们要喜乐。
Rejoice in the Lord always; again I will say, rejoice.
4:5 当叫众人知道你们的谦让宜人。主是近的。
1122
Let your forbearance be known to all men. The Lord is near.
4:6 应当一无挂虑，只要凡事借着祷告、祈求，带着感谢，将你们所要的告诉神；
In nothing be anxious, but in everything, by prayer and petition with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God;
4:7 神那超越人所能理解的平安，必在基督耶稣里，保卫你们的心怀意念。
And the peace of God, which surpasses every man's understanding, will guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.
4:8 末了的话，弟兄们，凡是真实的，凡是庄重的，凡是公义的，凡是纯洁的，凡是可爱的，凡是有美名的；若有什么德行，若有什么称赞，这些事你们
都要思念。
Finally, brothers, what things are true, what things are dignified, what things are righteous, what things are pure, what things are lovely, what things are well
spoken of, if there is any virtue and if any praise, take account of these things.
4:9 你们在我身上所学习的、所领受的、所听见的、所看见的，这些事你们都要去行，平安的神就必与你们同在。
The things which you have also learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things; and the God of peace will be with you.
4:10 我在主里大大的喜乐，因为你们对我的思念，如今终于重新发生；你们向来就思念我，只是未得机会。
But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly because now at length you have caused your thinking for me to blossom anew; for which matter you had indeed taken thought,
but lacked opportunity.
4:11 我并不是因缺乏说这话，因为我已经学会了，无论在什么景况，都可以知足。
Not that I speak according to lack, for I have learned, in whatever circumstances I am, to be content.
4:12 我知道怎样处卑贱，也知道怎样处富余；或饱足、或饥饿、或富余、或缺乏，在各事上，并在一切事上，我都学得秘诀。
I know also how to be abased, and I know how to abound; in everything and in all things I have learned the secret both to be filled and to hunger, both to
abound and to lack.
4:13 我在那加我能力者的里面，凡事都能作。
I am able to do all things in Him who empowers me.
4:14 然而，你们有分于我的患难，乃是美事。
Nevertheless you did well to have fellowship with me in my affliction.
4:15 腓立比人哪，你们也知道我初传福音，离开马其顿的时候，在授受的账上，除了你们以外，并没有一个召会与我有交通；
And you yourselves also know, Philippians, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I went out from Macedonia, no church had fellowship with me in the
account of giving and receiving except you only;
4:16 就是我在帖撒罗尼迦，你们也一次两次的，打发人供给我的需用。
For even in Thessalonica you sent both once and again to my need.
4:17 我并不寻求什么馈送，只寻求你们的果子增多，归入你们的账上。
Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit which increases to your account.
4:18 但我一切都收到了，并且有余，我已经充足，因我从以巴弗提受了你们的馈送，如同馨香之气，可收纳的祭物，是神所喜悦的。
But I have received in full all things and abound; I have been filled, receiving from Epaphroditus the things from you, a sweet-smelling savor, an acceptable
sacrifice, well-pleasing to God.
4:19 我的神必在荣耀中，照着祂的丰富，在基督耶稣里，使你们一切所需用的都充足。
And my God will fill your every need according to His riches, in glory, in Christ Jesus.
4:20 愿荣耀归与我们的神与父，直到永永远远。阿们。
Now to our God and Father be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
4:21 请问在基督耶稣里的各位圣徒安，与我同在的弟兄们都问你们安，
Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you.
4:22 众圣徒，尤其是该撒家里的人，都问你们安。
All the saints greet you, and especially those of Caesar's household.
4:23 愿主耶稣基督的恩与你们的灵同在。
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
1123
51. 歌罗西书 Colossians
歌罗西书 Colossians 第 1 章
1:1 凭神旨意，作基督耶稣使徒的保罗，和弟兄提摩太，
Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, and Timothy the brother,
1:2 写信给在歌罗西的圣徒，就是在基督里忠信的弟兄：愿恩典与平安，从神我们的父归与你们。
To the saints in Colossae and faithful brothers in Christ: Grace to you and peace from God our Father.
1:3 我们感谢神，我们主耶稣基督的父，常常为你们祷告，
We give thanks to God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always concerning you,
1:4 因听见你们对基督耶稣的信，并对众圣徒的爱，
Because we have heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and the love which you have unto all the saints
1:5 是因那给你们存在诸天之上的盼望，就是你们从前在福音真理的话上所听见的；
Because of the hope laid up for you in the heavens, of which you heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel,
1:6 这福音传到你们那里，也传到全世界，一直结果增长，正如在你们中间，自从你们听见，并在真实中认识神恩典的日子一样；
Which has come to you, even as it is also in all the world, bearing fruit and growing, as also in you, since the day you heard and knew the grace of God in truth;
1:7 正如你们从我们所亲爱，一同作奴仆的以巴弗所学的，他为你们作了基督忠信的执事，
Even as you learned from Epaphras, our beloved fellow slave, who is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf,
1:8 也把你们在那灵里的爱告诉了我们。
Who also has made known to us your love in the Spirit.
1:9 所以，我们自从听见的日子，也就为你们不住的祷告祈求，愿你们在一切属灵的智慧和悟性上，充分认识神的旨意，
Therefore we also, since the day we heard of it, do not cease praying and asking on your behalf that you may be filled with the full knowledge of His will in all
spiritual wisdom and understanding,
1:10 行事为人配得过主，以致凡事蒙祂喜悦，在一切善工上结果子，借着认识神而长大，
To walk worthily of the Lord to please Him in all things, bearing fruit in every good work and growing by the full knowledge of God,
1:11 照祂荣耀的权能，得以在各样的力上加力，使你们凡事欢欢喜喜的忍耐宽容，
Being empowered with all power, according to the might of His glory, unto all endurance and long-suffering with joy,
1:12 感谢父，叫你们够资格在光中同得所分给众圣徒的分；
Giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you for a share of the allotted portion of the saints in the light;
1:13 祂拯救了我们脱离黑暗的权势，把我们迁入祂爱子的国里；
Who delivered us out of the authority of darkness and transferred us into the kingdom of the Son of His love,
1:14 我们在爱子里得蒙救赎，就是罪得赦免。
In whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins;
1:15 爱子是那不能看见之神的像，是一切受造之物的首生者。
Who is the image of the invisible God, the Firstborn of all creation,
1:16 因为万有，无论是在诸天之上的、在地上的、能看见的、不能看见的、或是有位的、主治的、执政的、掌权的，都是在祂里面造的；万有都是借着祂
并为着祂造的；
Because in Him all things were created, in the heavens and on the earth, the visible and the invisible, whether thrones or lordships or rulers or authorities; all
things have been created through Him and unto Him.
1:17 祂在万有之先，万有也在祂里面得以维系；
And He is before all things, and all things cohere in Him;
1:18 祂也是召会身体的头；祂是元始，是从死人中复活的首生者，使祂可以在万有中居首位；
And He is the Head of the Body, the church; He is the beginning, the Firstborn from the dead, that He Himself might have the first place in all things;
1:19 因为一切的丰满，乐意居住在祂里面，
For in Him all the fullness was pleased to dwell
1:20 并且既借着祂在十字架上的血，成就了和平，便借着祂叫万有，无论是在地上的、或是在诸天之上的，都与自己和好了。
And through Him to reconcile all things to Himself, having made peace through the blood of His cross -- through Him, whether the things on the earth or the
things in the heavens.
1:21 你们从前是隔绝的，因着恶行心思里与祂为敌，
And you, though once alienated and enemies in your mind because of your evil works,
1:22 但如今祂在基督肉体的身体里，借着死，叫你们与自己和好了，把你们圣别、没有瑕疵、无可责备的呈献在自己面前；
He now has reconciled in the body of His flesh through death, to present you holy and without blemish and without reproach before Him;
1:23 只要你们一直留于信仰中，根基立定，坚定不移，不被移动离开福音的盼望；这福音就是你们所听过，传与天下一切受造之物的，我保罗也作了这福
音的执事。
If indeed you continue in the faith, grounded and steadfast and not being moved away from the hope of the gospel, which you heard, which was proclaimed in
all creation under heaven, of which I Paul became a minister.
1:24 现在我因着为你们所受的苦难喜乐，并且为基督的身体，就是为召会，在我一面，在我肉身上补满基督患难的缺欠；
I now rejoice in my sufferings on your behalf and fill up on my part that which is lacking of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh for His Body, which is the church;
1:25 我照神为你们所赐我的管家职分，作了召会的执事，要完成神的话，
Of which I became a minister according to the stewardship of God, which was given to me for you, to complete the word of God,
1:26 就是历世历代以来所隐藏的奥秘，但如今向祂的圣徒显明了；
The mystery which has been hidden from the ages and from the generations but now has been manifested to His saints;
1:27 神愿意叫他们知道，这奥秘的荣耀在外邦人中是何等的丰富，就是基督在你们里面成了荣耀的盼望；
To whom God willed to make known what are the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory,
1:28 我们宣扬祂，是用全般的智慧警戒各人，教导各人，好将各人在基督里成熟的献上；
Whom we announce, admonishing every man and teaching every man in all wisdom that we may present every man full-grown in Christ;
1124
1:29 我也为此劳苦，照着祂在我里面大能的运行，竭力奋斗。
For which also I labor, struggling according to His operation which operates in me in power.
歌罗西书 Colossians 第 2 章
2:1 我愿意你们晓得，我为你们和那些在老底嘉，甚至所有在肉身上没有见过我面的人，是何等竭力奋斗，
For I want you to know how great a struggle I have for you and for those in Laodicea, even all who have not seen my face in the flesh,
2:2 要叫他们的心得安慰，在爱里结合一起，以致丰丰富富的在悟性上有充分的确信，能以完全认识神的奥秘，就是基督；
That their hearts may be comforted, they being knit together in love and unto all the riches of the full assurance of understanding, unto the full knowledge of the
mystery of God, Christ,
2:3 一切智慧和知识的宝藏，都藏在祂里面。
In whom all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge are hidden.
2:4 我说这话，免得有人用花言巧语欺骗你们。
This I say that no one may delude you with persuasive speech.
2:5 我在肉身里虽然离开，在灵里却与你们同在，欢喜看见你们整齐有序，并坚定的信入基督。
For even though I am absent in the flesh, yet in the spirit I am with you, rejoicing and seeing your order and the solid basis of your faith in Christ.
2:6 你们既然接受了基督，就是主耶稣，
As therefore you have received the Christ, Jesus the Lord, walk in Him,
2:7 在祂里面已经生根，并正被建造，且照着你们所受的教导，在信心上得以坚固，洋溢着感谢，就要在祂里面行事为人。
Having been rooted and being built up in Him, and being established in the faith even as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving.
2:8 你们要谨慎，恐怕有人用他的哲学，和虚空的欺骗，照着人的传统，照着世上的蒙学，不照着基督，把你们掳去；
Beware that no one carries you off as spoil through his philosophy and empty deceit, according to the tradition of men, according to the elements of the world,
and not according to Christ;
2:9 因为神格一切的丰满，都有形有体的居住在基督里面，
For in Him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily,
2:10 你们在祂里面也得了丰满。祂是一切执政掌权者的元首；
And you have been made full in Him, who is the Head of all rule and authority.
2:11 你们在祂里面也受了非人手所行的割礼，乃是在基督的割礼里，脱去了肉体的身体，
In Him also you were circumcised with a circumcision not made with hands, in the putting off of the body of the flesh, in the circumcision of Christ,
2:12 在受浸中与祂一同埋葬，也在受浸中，借着那叫祂从死人中复活之神所运行的信心，与祂一同复活。
Buried together with Him in baptism, in which also you were raised together with Him through the faith of the operation of God, who raised Him from the dead.
2:13 你们从前在过犯，和未受割礼的肉体中死了，神赦免了你们一切的过犯，叫你们一同与基督活过来；
And you, though dead in your offenses and in the uncircumcision of your flesh, He made alive together with Him, having forgiven us all our offenses;
2:14 涂抹了规条上所写，攻击我们，反对我们的字据，并且把它撤去，钉在十字架上。
Wiping out the handwriting in ordinances, which was against us, which was contrary to us; and He has taken it out of the way, nailing it to the cross.
2:15 既将执政的和掌权的脱下，神就把他们公然示众，仗着十字架在凯旋中向他们夸胜。
Stripping off the rulers and the authorities, He made a display of them openly, triumphing over them in it.
2:16 所以不拘在饮食上、或在节期、月朔、或安息日方面，都不可让人论断你们，
Let no one therefore judge you in eating and in drinking or in respect of a feast or of a new moon or of the Sabbath,
2:17 这些原是要来之事的影儿，那实体却属于基督。
Which are a shadow of the things to come, but the body is of Christ.
2:18 不可让人凭故意卑微，并敬拜天使，所作反对你们的判断，骗取你们的奖赏；这等人留恋于所见过的，随着自己肉体的心思，徒然自高自大，
Let no one defraud you by judging you unworthy of your prize, in self-chosen lowliness and the worship of the angels, dwelling on the things which he has seen,
vainly puffed up by his mind set on the flesh,
2:19 不持定元首；本于祂，全身借着节和筋，得了丰富的供应，并结合一起，就以神的增长而长大。
And not holding the Head, out from whom all the Body, being richly supplied and knit together by means of the joints and sinews, grows with the growth of God.
2:20 20-21
If you died with Christ from the elements of the world, why, as living in the world, do you subject yourselves to ordinances:
2:21 你们若是与基督同死，脱离了世上的蒙学，为什么仍像在世界中活着，服从那不可拿，不可尝，不可摸等类的规条？
Do not handle, nor taste, nor touch,
2:22 这些都是照着人的吩咐和教导，一经使用，就都败坏了。
(Regarding things which are all to perish when used) according to the commandments and teachings of men?
2:23 这些事在私意敬拜，自表卑微和苦待己身上，确有智慧之名，但在克制肉体的放纵上，却是毫无价值。
Such things indeed have a reputation of wisdom in self-imposed worship and lowliness and severe treatment of the body, but are not of any value against the
indulgence of the flesh.
歌罗西书 Colossians 第 3 章
3:1 所以你们若与基督一同复活，就当寻求在上面的事，那里有基督坐在神的右边。
If therefore you were raised together with Christ, seek the things which are above, where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God.
3:2 你们要思念在上面的事，不要思念在地上的事。
Set your mind on the things which are above, not on the things which are on the earth.
3:3 因为你们已经死了，你们的生命与基督一同藏在神里面。
For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God.
1125
3:4 基督是我们的生命，祂显现的时候，你们也要与祂一同显现在荣耀里。
When Christ our life is manifested, then you also will be manifested with Him in glory.
3:5 所以要治死你们在地上的肢体，就是淫乱、污秽、邪情、恶欲和贪婪，贪婪就是拜偶像，
Put to death therefore your members which are on the earth: fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and greediness, which is idolatry;
3:6 因这些事，神的忿怒正临到那悖逆之子。
Because of which things the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience;
3:7 当你们在这些事中活着的时候，也曾在其间行事为人过。
In which you also once walked, when you lived in these things.
3:8 但现在你们要脱去这一切的事，就是忿怒、恼恨、恶毒、毁谤，并你们口中所出可耻的秽语。
But now, you also, put away all these things: wrath, anger, malice, blasphemy, foul abusive language out of your mouth.
3:9 不要彼此说谎，因你们已经脱去旧人，同旧人的行为，
Do not lie to one another, since you have put off the old man with his practices
3:10 并且穿上了新人；这新人照着创造他者的形像渐渐更新，以致有充足的知识；
And have put on the new man, which is being renewed unto full knowledge according to the image of Him who created him,
3:11 在此并没有希利尼人和犹太人、受割礼的和未受割礼的、化外人、西古提人、为奴的、自主的，惟有基督是一切，又在一切之内。
Where there cannot be Greek and Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free man, but Christ is all and in all.
3:12 所以你们既是神的选民，圣别蒙爱的人，就要穿上怜恤的心肠、恩慈、卑微、温柔、恒忍。
Put on therefore, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, inward parts of compassion, kindness, lowliness, meekness, long-suffering;
3:13 倘若这人与那人有嫌隙，总要彼此容忍，彼此饶恕；主怎样饶恕了你们，你们也要怎样饶恕人。
Bearing one another and forgiving one another, if anyone should have a complaint against anyone; even as the Lord forgave you, so also should you forgive.
3:14 在这一切之上，还要穿上爱，爱是全德的联索。
And over all these things put on love, which is the uniting bond of perfectness.
3:15 又要让基督的平安在你们心里作仲裁，你们在一个身体里蒙召，也是为了这平安；且要感恩。
And let the peace of Christ arbitrate in your hearts, to which also you were called in one Body; and be thankful.
3:16 当用各样的智慧，让基督的话丰丰富富的住在你们里面，用诗章、颂辞、灵歌，彼此教导，互相劝戒，心被恩感歌颂神；
Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in
your hearts to God.
3:17 凡你们所作的，无论是什么，或说话，或行事，都要在主耶稣的名里，借着祂感谢父神。
And whatever you do in word or in deed, do all things in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through Him.
3:18 作妻子的，要服从丈夫，这在主里是相宜的。
Wives, be subject to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord.
3:19 作丈夫的，要爱妻子，不可苦待她们。
Husbands, love your wives and do not be bitter against them.
3:20 作儿女的，要凡事顺从父母，因为这在主里是可喜悦的。
Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing in the Lord.
3:21 作父亲的，不要惹你们儿女的气，免得他们灰心丧志。
Fathers, do not vex your children, that they may not be disheartened.
3:22 作奴仆的，要凡事顺从肉身的主人，不要只在眼前事奉，像是讨人喜欢的，乃要凭心中的单纯敬畏主。
Slaves, obey in all things those who are your masters according to the flesh, not with eye-service as men-pleasers, but in singleness of heart fearing the Lord.
3:23 你们无论作什么，都要从心里作，像是给主作的，不是给人作的，
Whatever you do, work from the soul as to the Lord and not to men,
3:24 知道你们从主那里必得着基业为赏报；你们所事奉的乃是主基督。
Knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as recompense. You serve the Lord Christ.
3:25 那行不义的，必受不义的报应，并没有偏待人的事。
For he who does unrighteously will receive what he unrighteously did, and there is no respect of persons.
歌罗西书 Colossians 第 4 章
4:1 作主人的，要公公平平的对待奴仆，知道你们也有一位主在天上。
Masters, grant to your slaves that which is just and equal, knowing that you also have a Master in heaven.
4:2 你们要坚定持续的祷告，在此儆醒感恩，
Persevere in prayer, watching in it with thanksgiving,
4:3 同时也要为我们祷告，求神给我们开传道的门，能以讲说基督的奥秘，（我也为此被捆锁，）
Praying at the same time for us also, that God would open to us a door for the word, to speak the mystery of Christ (because of which also I am bound),
4:4 叫我按着所当说的，将这奥秘显明出来。
That I may make it manifest as I ought to speak.
4:5 你们对于外人要凭智慧行事，要赎回光阴。
Walk in wisdom toward those who are without, redeeming the time.
4:6 你们的言语总要带着恩典，好像用盐调和，就可知道你们应当怎样回答各人。
Let your speech be always with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how you ought to answer each one.
4:7 一切关于我的事，有亲爱的弟兄，忠信的执事，在主里同作奴仆的推基古，要告诉你们。
All the things concerning me, Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow slave in the Lord, will make known to you,
4:8 我为这事打发他到你们那里去，好叫你们知道关于我们的事，又叫他安慰你们的心；
Whom I have sent to you for this very thing, that you might know the things concerning us and that he might comfort your hearts;
4:9 还有忠信亲爱的弟兄欧尼西母同去，他是你们那里的人。他们要把这里一切的事都告诉你们。
1126
With Onesimus, the faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They will make known to you all the things here.
4:10 与我一同坐监的亚里达古问你们安。巴拿巴的表弟马可也问你们安。（说到这马可，你们已经受了吩咐，他若到了你们那里，你们就接待他。）
Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, greets you, as well as Mark, the cousin of Barnabas, (concerning whom you received commandments, If he comes to you, receive
him),
4:11 那称为犹士都的耶数，也问你们安；奉割礼的人中，只有这些人是为神的国作我的同工，他们也成了我的安慰。
And Jesus, who is called Justus; these alone of the circumcision are my fellow workers for the kingdom of God, ones who have become a consolation to me.
4:12 有你们那里的人，作基督耶稣奴仆的以巴弗问你们安；他在祷告中常为你们竭力奋斗，要你们得以成熟，站立得住，在神一切的旨意上满有确信。
Epaphras, who is one of you, a slave of Christ Jesus, greets you, always struggling on your behalf in his prayers that you may stand mature and fully assured in
all the will of God.
4:13 我可以给他作见证，他为你们和那些在老底嘉，并在希拉波立的人，多多的辛劳。
For I testify of him that he labors much for you and for those in Laodicea and for those in Hierapolis.
4:14 亲爱的医生路加，和底马问你们安。
Luke, the beloved physician, greets you, as well as Demas.
4:15 请问在老底嘉的弟兄和宁法，并他家里的召会安。
Greet the brothers in Laodicea, as well as Nymphas and the church, which is in his house.
4:16 这书信在你们中间念了之后，务要叫在老底嘉的召会也念，你们也要念从老底嘉来的书信。
And when this letter is read among you, cause that it be read in the church of the Laodiceans also, and that you also read the one from Laodicea.
4:17 要告诉亚基布：务要留心你在主里所领受的职事，好尽这职事。
And say to Archippus, Take heed to the ministry which you have received in the Lord, that you fulfill it.
4:18 我保罗亲笔问安。你们要记念我的捆锁。愿恩典与你们同在。
The greeting in my own hand -- Paul. Remember my bonds. Grace be with you.
1127
52. 帖撒罗尼迦前书 1 Thessalonians
帖撒罗尼迦前书 1 Thessalonians 第 1 章
1:1 保罗、西拉和提摩太，写信给在父神和主耶稣基督里，帖撒罗尼迦人的召会：愿恩典与平安归与你们。
Paul and Silvanus and Timothy to the church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ: Grace to you and peace.
1:2 我们为你们众人常常感谢神，在祷告中常提到你们；
We thank God always concerning all of you, making mention of you in our prayers,
1:3 在我们的神与父面前，不住的记念你们信心的工作，爱心的劳苦，并对我们主耶稣基督之盼望的忍耐；
Remembering unceasingly your work of faith and labor of love and endurance of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ, before our God and Father;
1:4 蒙神所爱的弟兄们，我们知道你们是蒙拣选的，
Knowing, brothers, beloved of God, your selection;
1:5 因为我们的福音传到你们那里，不仅在于言语，也在于能力和圣灵，并充足的确信，正如你们知道，我们在你们中间，为你们的缘故是怎样为人。
For our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and in much assurance, even as you know what kind of men we were
among you for your sake.
1:6 并且你们在大患难之中，带着圣灵的喜乐，领受了主的话，就效法我们，也效法了主，
And you became imitators of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction with joy of the Holy Spirit,
1:7 以致你们成了马其顿和亚该亚所有信徒的榜样。
So that you became a pattern to all those who believe in Macedonia and in Achaia.
1:8 因为主的话从你们那里已经宣扬出来，不单在马其顿和亚该亚，就是在各处，你们向神的信心也都传开了，所以不用我们说什么；
For from you the word of the Lord has sounded out; not only in Macedonia and in Achaia, but in every place, your faith toward God has gone out, so that we have
no need of saying anything.
1:9 因为他们自己正在传报关于我们的事，就是我们是怎样的进到了你们那里，你们又是怎样离弃了偶像转向神，来服事又活又真的神，
For they themselves report concerning us what kind of entrance we had toward you and how you turned to God from the idols to serve a living and true God
1:10 并且等候祂的儿子从诸天降临，就是祂从死人中所复活，那拯救我们脱离要来忿怒的耶稣。
And await His Son from the heavens, whom He raised from the dead, Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath which is coming.
帖撒罗尼迦前书 1 Thessalonians 第 2 章
2:1 弟兄们，你们自己原晓得，我们进到你们那里，并不是徒然的。
For you yourselves know, brothers, our entrance toward you, that it has not been in vain.
2:2 我们从前在腓立比受苦害，又被凌辱，就如你们所知道的，然而还是在我们的神里面放胆，在极大的争战中，对你们讲说了神的福音。
But having suffered previously and having been outrageously treated, even as you know, in Philippi, we were bold in our God to speak to you the gospel of God
in much struggle.
2:3 我们的劝勉不是出于错谬，不是出于污秽，也不是用诡诈；
For our exhortation is not out of deception nor out of uncleanness nor in guile;
2:4 但神怎样验中了我们，把福音托付我们，我们就照样讲，不是要讨人喜欢，乃是要讨那察验我们心的神喜欢。
But even as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak, not as pleasing men but God, who proves our hearts.
2:5 因为我们从来没有用过谄媚的话，就如你们所知道的；也没有藉掩饰而贪婪，这是神可以作见证的。
For neither were we found at any time with flattering speech, even as you know, nor with a pretext for covetousness; God is witness.
2:6 我们作基督的使徒，虽然有权利叫人尊重，却没有向你们，或向别人，寻求从人来的荣耀；
Nor did we seek glory from men, neither from you nor from others, though we could have stood on our authority as apostles of Christ.
2:7 只在你们中间为人温和，如同乳母顾惜自己的孩子。
But we were gentle in your midst, as a nursing mother would cherish her own children.
2:8 我们这样切慕你们，不但乐意将神的福音分给你们，连自己的性命也愿意分给你们，因你们是我们所爱的。
Yearning in this way over you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God but also our own souls, because you became beloved to us.
2:9 弟兄们，你们原记得我们的劳碌辛苦；我们是昼夜作工，把神的福音传扬给你们，免得叫你们任何人受累。
For you remember, brothers, our labor and travail: While working night and day so as not to be burdensome to any of you, we proclaimed to you the gospel of
God.
2:10 你们和神可以作见证，我们向你们信的人，是何等圣、义、无可指摘，
You are witnesses, as well as God, how in a holy and righteous and blameless manner we conducted ourselves toward you who believe,
2:11 正如你们所知道的，我们怎样劝勉你们，抚慰你们，向你们作见证，待你们每一个人，好像父亲待自己的孩子一样；
Just as you know how we were to each one of you, as a father to his own children, exhorting you and consoling you and testifying,
2:12 要叫你们行事为人，配得过那召你们进入祂自己的国和荣耀的神。
So that you might walk in a manner worthy of God, who calls you into His own kingdom and glory.
2:13 所以，我们也不住的感谢神，因为你们既接受了从我们所听见神的话，就不以为是人的话，乃以为是神的话而领受了；这话确是神的，也运行在你们
信的人里面。
And because of this we also thank God unceasingly that when you received the word of God, which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men
but even as it truly is, the word of God, which also operates in you who believe.
2:14 弟兄们，你们曾效法犹太地在基督耶稣里神的众召会；因为你们也受了自己同族人同样的苦害，正如他们从犹太人所受的一样。
For you, brothers, became imitators of the churches of God which are in Judea in Christ Jesus, for you also suffered the same things from your own countrymen,
even as they also from the Jews,
2:15 这些犹太人杀了主耶稣和申言者，又驱逐了我们；他们不得神的喜悦，且与众人敌对；
Who both killed the Lord Jesus and the prophets and drove us out; and they are not pleasing to God and are contrary to all men,
1128
2:16 拦阻我们向外邦人讲道，使他们得救，以致常常充满自己的罪。忿怒临到他们身上，已经到了极处。
In that they forbid us to speak to the Gentiles that they may be saved, so that they fill up their sins always. But wrath has come upon them to the uttermost.
2:17 弟兄们，我们如同丧失亲人一般，暂时与你们分离，是面目的，不是心里的，我们越发急切，极其巴望要见你们的面。
But we, brothers, having been bereaved of you for a little while, in presence, not in heart, were more abundantly eager with great desire to see your face.
2:18 所以我们有意到你们那里，我保罗确曾一次两次要去，只是撒但拦阻了我们。
Therefore we wanted to come to you, indeed I Paul, both once and again, yet Satan hindered us.
2:19 我们主耶稣来临的时候，我们在祂面前的盼望、喜乐、或所夸的冠冕是什么？不就是你们么？
For what is our hope or joy or crown of boasting before our Lord Jesus at His coming? Are not even you?
2:20 因为你们就是我们的荣耀、我们的喜乐。
For you are our glory and joy.
帖撒罗尼迦前书 1 Thessalonians 第 3 章
3:1 所以，我们既不能再忍受，就乐意独自留在雅典，
Therefore when we could bear it no longer, we thought it good to be left in Athens alone,
3:2 打发我们的弟兄，在基督福音上作神同工的提摩太去，为着你们的信心，坚固并鼓励你们，
And we sent Timothy, our brother and God's fellow worker in the gospel of Christ, to establish and encourage you for the sake of your faith,
3:3 免得有人被诸般患难摇动。你们自己知道，我们受患难原是派定的。
That no one would be shaken by these afflictions; for you yourselves know that we are appointed for this.
3:4 我们在你们那里的时候，预先告诉你们，我们将会受患难，这果然发生了，你们也知道。
For even when we were with you, we told you beforehand that we are to be afflicted, even as it also came to pass and you know.
3:5 所以，我再也不能忍受，就打发人去，要知道你们的信心如何，恐怕那试诱者试诱了你们，叫我们的劳苦归于徒然。
Because of this, when I also could bear it no longer, I sent to find out concerning your faith, lest perhaps the tempter had tempted you and our labor would be in
vain.
3:6 但现在提摩太从你们那里来到我们这里，将你们信心和爱心的好消息报给我们，又说你们常常亲切的记念我们，渴慕见我们，如同我们渴慕见你们一
样。
But Timothy, having just come to us from you and announcing the good news to us of your faith and love and that you have kind remembrance of us always and
long to see us, just as we also you,
3:7 所以弟兄们，我们在一切贫困和患难之中，借着你们的信心，就在你们身上得了安慰；
Because of this we were comforted because of you, brothers, in all our necessity and affliction, through your faith;
3:8 因为现今你们若在主里站立得住，我们就活了。
Because now we live if you stand firm in the Lord.
3:9 我们在我们的神面前，因着你们甚是喜乐，为这一切的喜乐，能用何等的感谢，为你们报答神？
For what thanks can we return to God concerning you for all the joy with which we rejoice because of you before our God,
3:10 我们昼夜格外恳切的祈求，要见你们的面，补足你们信心的缺欠。
Night and day petitioning exceedingly so that we may see your face and complete the things that are lacking in your faith?
3:11 愿我们的神与父自己，和我们的主耶稣，修直我们到你们那里去的路。
Now may our God and Father Himself and our Lord Jesus make straight our path to you;
3:12 又愿主使你们彼此的爱并对众人的爱，都能增多洋溢，正如我们对你们一样；
And the Lord cause you to increase and abound in love to one another and to all, just as we also to you,
3:13 好使你们的心，当我们主耶稣同祂众圣徒来临的时候，在我们的神与父面前，得以坚固，在圣别上无可指摘。
So that He may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all His saints.
帖撒罗尼迦前书 1 Thessalonians 第 4 章
4:1 还有，弟兄们，我们在主耶稣里请求并劝勉你们，你们既然接受了我们的教训，知道当怎样行，并怎样讨神的喜悦，就要照你们现在所行的，更加充
盈超越。
Furthermore, brothers, we ask and exhort you in the Lord Jesus that even as you received from us how you ought to walk and please God, even as indeed you do
walk, that you abound still more.
4:2 你们原晓得，我们借着主耶稣给了你们什么嘱咐。
For you know what charges we gave you through the Lord Jesus.
4:3 神的旨意就是要你们圣别，禁戒淫乱；
For this is the will of God, your sanctification: that you abstain from fornication;
4:4 要你们各人晓得，怎样用圣别和尊贵，持守自己的器皿，
That each one of you know how to possess his own vessel in sanctification and honor,
4:5 不放纵私欲的邪情，像那不认识神的外邦人；
Not in the passion of lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God;
4:6 也不要在这事上越分，占他弟兄的便宜；因为关于这一切的事，主必报应，就如我们先前告诉过你们，又郑重见证过的。
That no one overstep and take advantage of his brother in the matter, because the Lord is the avenger concerning all these things, even as we also said before to
you and solemnly charged.
4:7 神本是在圣别中召了我们，并不是要我们沾染污秽。
For God has not called us for uncleanness but in sanctification.
4:8 所以那弃绝的，不是弃绝人，乃是弃绝那位将祂的圣灵赐给你们的神。
Consequently, he who rejects, rejects not man but God, who also gives His Holy Spirit to you.
1129
4:9 关于弟兄相爱，不用我写信给你们，因为你们自己蒙了神的教导，叫你们彼此相爱；
Now concerning brotherly love, you have no need for me to write to you, for you yourselves are taught of God to love one another;
4:10 其实，你们向全马其顿所有的弟兄，就是这样行。但弟兄们，我们劝你们要更加充盈超越；
For you also do this unto all the brothers in the whole of Macedonia. But we exhort you, brothers, to abound still more
4:11 又要立定志向作安静人，办自己的事，亲手作工，正如我们曾嘱咐过你们的，
And to aspire to be quiet and attend to your own affairs and work with your hands, even as we charged you,
4:12 叫你们对外人行事端正得体，自己也就没有什么缺乏了。
That you may walk becomingly toward those outside and may have need of nothing.
4:13 关于睡了的人，弟兄们，我们不愿意你们无知无识，恐怕你们忧伤，像其余没有盼望的人一样。
But we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, concerning those who are sleeping, that you would not grieve even as also the rest who have no hope.
4:14 因为我们若信耶稣死而复活了，神也必照样将那些已经借着耶稣睡了的人与祂一同带来。
For if we believe that Jesus died and rose, so also those who have fallen asleep through Jesus, God will bring with Him.
4:15 我们现在凭着主的话，告诉你们这件事，就是我们这些活着还存留到主来临的人，绝不能在那已经睡了的人之先；
For this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are living, who are left remaining unto the coming of the Lord, shall by no means precede those who
have fallen asleep;
4:16 因为主必亲自从天降临，有发令的呼叫，有天使长的声音，又有神的号声，那在基督里死了的人必先复活，
Because the Lord Himself, with a shout of command, with the voice of the archangel and with the trumpet of God, will descend from heaven, and the dead in
Christ will rise first.
4:17 然后我们这些活着还存留的人，必同时与他们一起被提到云里，在空中与主相会；这样，我们就要和主常常同在。
Then we who are living, who are left remaining, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air; and thus we will be always with the
Lord.
4:18 所以你们当用这些话彼此安慰。
Therefore comfort one another with these words.
帖撒罗尼迦前书 1 Thessalonians 第 5 章
5:1 弟兄们，关于时候与时期，不用写信给你们；
But concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need for anything to be written to you;
5:2 因为你们自己明确晓得，主的日子来到，好像夜间的贼一样。
For you yourselves know perfectly well that like a thief in the night, so the day of the Lord comes.
5:3 人正说平安稳妥的时候，毁灭忽然临到他们，如同产难临到怀胎的妇人一样，他们绝不能逃脱。
When they say, Peace and security, then sudden destruction comes upon them, just as birth pangs to a woman with child; and they shall by no means escape.
5:4 弟兄们，你们却不在黑暗里，叫那日子像贼一样突然抓住你们；
But you, brothers, are not in darkness that the day should overtake you like a thief;
5:5 因为你们都是光明之子和白昼之子。我们不是属黑夜的，也不是属黑暗的。
For you are all sons of light and sons of the day. We are not of the night nor of darkness.
5:6 所以我们不要睡觉，像其余的人一样，总要儆醒谨守。
So then let us not sleep, as the rest do, but let us watch and be sober.
5:7 因为睡了的人是在夜间睡，醉了的人是在夜间醉。
For those who sleep, sleep during the night, and those who get drunk are drunk during the night;
5:8 但我们既是属于白昼，就当谨慎自守，穿上信和爱的胸甲，并戴上救恩之望的头盔。
But since we are of the day, let us be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love and a helmet, the hope of salvation.
5:9 因为神没有派定我们受忿怒，乃是派定我们借着我们的主耶稣基督得着救恩。
For God did not appoint us to wrath but to the obtaining of salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
5:10 祂为我们死，好叫我们无论醒着或睡着，都可与祂同活。
Who died for us in order that whether we watch or sleep, we may live together with Him.
5:11 所以你们要彼此安慰，互相建造，正如你们一向所行的。
Therefore comfort one another, and build up each one the other, even as you also do.
5:12 弟兄们，我们还请求你们，要敬重那些在你们中间劳苦，并在主里带领你们，劝戒你们的人，
Furthermore we ask you, brothers, to acknowledge those who labor among you and take the lead among you in the Lord and admonish you,
5:13 又因他们所作的工，在爱里格外尊重他们；你们也要彼此和睦。
And to regard them most highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves.
5:14 弟兄们，我们劝你们，要劝戒不守规矩的人，抚慰灰心的人，扶持软弱的人，又要对众人恒忍。
And we exhort you, brothers, Admonish the disorderly, console the fainthearted, sustain the weak, be long-suffering toward all.
5:15 你们要当心，谁都不可以恶报恶，却要在彼此相待，或对待众人上，常常竭力追求良善。
See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always pursue what is good both for one another and for all.
5:16 要常常喜乐，
Always rejoice,
5:17 不住的祷告，
Unceasingly pray,
5:18 凡事谢恩；因为这是神在基督耶稣里对你们的旨意。
In everything give thanks; for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you.
5:19 不要销灭那灵，
Do not quench the Spirit;
5:20 不要藐视申言者的话，
1130
Do not despise prophecies,
5:21 但要凡事察验，善美的要持守，
But prove all things. Hold fast to what is good;
5:22 各种的恶事要远离禁作。
Abstain from every kind of evil.
5:23 且愿和平的神，亲自全然圣别你们，又愿你们的灵、与魂、与身子得蒙保守，在我们主耶稣基督来临的时候，得以完全，无可指摘。
And the God of peace Himself sanctify you wholly, and may your spirit and soul and body be preserved complete, without blame, at the coming of our Lord Jesus
Christ.
5:24 那召你们的是信实的，祂也必作成这事。
Faithful is He who calls you, who also will do it.
5:25 弟兄们，请为我们祷告。
Brothers, pray also for us.
5:26 你们要用圣别的亲嘴问众弟兄安。
Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss.
5:27 我指着主吩咐你们，要把这信念给众弟兄听。
I adjure you by the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers.
5:28 愿我们主耶稣基督的恩与你们同在。
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
1131
53. 帖撒罗尼迦后书 2 Thessalonians
帖撒罗尼迦后书 2 Thessalonians 第 1 章
1:1 保罗、西拉和提摩太，写信给在神我们的父并主耶稣基督里，帖撒罗尼迦人的召会：
Paul and Silvanus and Timothy to the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ:
1:2 愿恩典与平安，从神我们的父，并主耶稣基督归与你们。
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1:3 弟兄们，我们应当常为你们感谢神，这本是合宜的；因你们的信心格外增长，你们众人每一位彼此相爱的心也一直增加，
We ought to thank God always concerning you, brothers, even as it is fitting, because your faith grows exceedingly and the love of each one of you all to one
another is increasing,
1:4 以致我们在神的众召会中，亲自以你们为夸口，因为你们在所忍受的一切逼迫与患难中，仍有忍耐和信心；
So that we ourselves boast in you among the churches of God concerning your endurance and faith in all your persecutions and the afflictions which you bear,
1:5 这正是神公义审判的明证，叫你们可算配得神的国，你们的确是为这国受苦；
A plain indication of the righteous judgment of God, that you may be accounted worthy of the kingdom of God, for which also you suffer;
1:6 因为在神这是公义的，就是在主耶稣从天上，同祂有能力的天使，在火焰中显现，要报应那不认识神，和那不顺从我们主耶稣基督福音之人的时候，
Since it is just with God to repay with affliction those afflicting you,
1:7 将患难报应那加患难给你们的人，
And to you who are being afflicted, rest with us at the revelation of the Lord Jesus from heaven with the angels of His power, in flaming fire,
1:8 又使你们这受患难的人，与我们同享安息；
Rendering vengeance to those who do not know God and to those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1:9 在那日，当主来，在祂圣徒身上得荣耀，并在一切信的人身上显为希奇的时候，（你们也在其中，因为你们信了我们对你们所作的见证，）
They will pay the penalty of eternal destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of His strength
1:10 那些不顺从祂福音的人要受刑罚，就是永远沉沦，离开主的面，并离开祂力量的荣耀。
When He comes to be glorified in His saints and to be marveled at in all those who have believed (because our testimony to you was believed) in that day.
1:11 因此，我们也常为你们祷告，愿我们的神算你们配得过所蒙的召，又用大能成就你们所喜悦的一切良善，和信心的工作，
For which also we pray always concerning you, that our God may count you worthy of your calling and may fulfill in power your every good intention for goodness
and your work of faith,
1:12 照着我们的神并主耶稣基督的恩，使我们主耶稣的名在你们身上得荣耀，你们也在祂里面得荣耀。
So that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you, and you in Him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ.
帖撒罗尼迦后书 2 Thessalonians 第 2 章
2:1 弟兄们，关于我们主耶稣基督的来临，和我们聚集到祂那里，
Now we ask you, brothers, with regard to the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our gathering together to Him,
2:2 我们求你们，无论有灵、或言语、或冒我们名的书信，说主的日子已经来到，你们的心思都不要贸然摇动，你们也不要惊慌。
That you be not quickly shaken in mind nor alarmed, neither by a spirit nor by word nor by a letter as if by us, to the effect that the day of the Lord has come.
2:3 不要让任何人用任何方法诱骗你们；因为那日子以前，必有背道的事先来，并有那不法的人，就是灭亡之子，显露出来；
Let no one deceive you in any way, because it will not come unless the apostasy comes first and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of perdition,
2:4 他是那敌对、且高抬自己超过一切称为神，或受人敬拜者的，甚至坐在神的殿里，展示自己，说他就是神。
Who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God or an object of worship, so that he sits in the temple of God, setting himself forth, saying that he is
God.
2:5 我还在你们那里的时候，曾一再把这些事告诉你们，你们不记得么？
Do you not remember that while I was still with you, I said these things to you?
2:6 现在你们也知道，那抑制他，使他到了自己的时候，才可以显露出来的是什么。
And now you know that which restrains, so that he might be revealed in his own time.
2:7 因为那不法的奥秘已经发动，只等那现在的抑制者被除去；
For it is the mystery of lawlessness that is now operating, but only until the one now restraining goes out of the way.
2:8 那时这不法者必显露出来，主耶稣要用祂口中的气除灭他，并用祂来临的显现废掉他。
And then the lawless one will be revealed (whom the Lord Jesus will slay by the breath of His mouth and bring to nothing by the manifestation of His coming),
2:9 这不法者的来临，是照着撒但的运行，行各样的异能、神迹、和虚谎的奇事，
The coming of whom is according to Satan's operation in all power and signs and wonders of a lie
2:10 并且在那灭亡的人身上，行各样不义的欺骗；因他们不领受对真理的爱，使他们得救。
And in all deceit of unrighteousness among those who are perishing, because they did not receive the love of the truth that they might be saved.
2:11 所以，神就使错谬运行在他们里面，叫他们信从虚谎，
And because of this God sends to them an operation of error that they might believe the lie,
2:12 使一切不信真理，倒喜悦不义的人，都被判罪。
So that all who have not believed the truth but have taken pleasure in unrighteousness might be judged.
2:13 主所爱的弟兄们，我们应当常为你们感谢神，因为祂从起初拣选了你们，叫你们借着那灵的圣别，并你们对真理的信，可以得救。
But we ought to thank God always concerning you, brothers beloved of the Lord, because God chose you from the beginning unto salvation in sanctification of the
Spirit and belief of the truth,
2:14 神借着我们所传的福音，也呼召你们到这地步，好得着我们主耶稣基督的荣耀。
To which also He called you through our gospel unto the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2:15 所以弟兄们，要站立得住，凡你们受教所得的传授，无论是口传的，或是我们信上写的，都要持守。
So then, brothers, stand firm and hold to the things which were handed down to you and which you were taught, whether by word or by our letter.
1132
2:16 但愿我们的主耶稣基督自己，和神我们的父，就是那爱我们，在恩典中将永远的安慰和美好的盼望赐给我们的，
Now our Lord Jesus Christ Himself and God our Father, who has loved us and given us eternal comfort and good hope in grace,
2:17 安慰你们的心，并在一切善行善言上，坚固你们。
Comfort your hearts and establish you in every good work and word.
帖撒罗尼迦后书 2 Thessalonians 第 3 章
3:1 末了的话，弟兄们，请你们为我们祷告，好叫主的话快快传开，且得荣耀，正如在你们中间一样；
Finally, brothers, pray concerning us, that the word of the Lord may run and be glorified, even as it is also with you;
3:2 并叫我们蒙拯救，脱离不讲理的恶人，因为人不都有信心。
And that we may be delivered from unreasonable and evil men, for the faith does not belong to all.
3:3 但主是信实的，祂要坚固你们，并保护你们脱离那恶者。
But the Lord is faithful, who will establish you and guard you from the evil one.
3:4 关于你们，我们在主里深信，你们现在是遵行我们所嘱咐的，将来也必要遵行。
And we have confidence in the Lord concerning you that what we charge, you both are doing and will do.
3:5 愿主修直你们心中的途径，引导你们的心，进入神的爱以爱神，并进入基督的忍耐以忍耐。
And the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God and into the endurance of Christ.
3:6 弟兄们，我们在我们主耶稣基督的名里嘱咐你们，凡有弟兄不按规矩、且不照着你们从我们所受的传授而行，就当远离他。
Now we charge you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you keep away from every brother walking disorderly and not according to the things
which were handed down to you and which you received from us.
3:7 你们自己原知道，应当怎样效法我们；因为我们在你们中间，未尝不守规矩，
For you yourselves know how you ought to imitate us, because we were not disorderly among you;
3:8 也未尝白吃任何人的饭，倒是劳碌辛苦，昼夜作工，免得叫你们任何人受累。
Nor did we eat bread as a gift from anyone, but in labor and hardship we worked night and day so that we would not be burdensome to any of you;
3:9 这并不是因我们没有权利，乃是要给你们作榜样，叫你们效法我们。
Not because we do not have the right, but in order that we might give ourselves to you as a pattern that you might imitate us.
3:10 我们在你们那里的时候，也曾将这事嘱咐你们，若有人不愿作工，就不可吃饭。
For even when we were with you, we gave you this charge, that if anyone does not want to work, neither should he eat.
3:11 因我们听说，在你们中间有些人不按规矩而行，什么工都不作，反倒好管闲事。
For we hear of some walking among you disorderly, doing no work at all, but being busybodies.
3:12 我们在主耶稣基督里，嘱咐并劝勉这样的人，要安静作工，吃自己的饭。
Now such ones we charge and exhort in the Lord Jesus Christ to work with quietness and eat their own bread.
3:13 弟兄们，你们行善不可丧志。
But you, brothers, do not lose heart in doing good.
3:14 若有人不顺从我们这信上的话，要记下这人，不和他交往，叫他自觉羞愧；
And if anyone does not obey our word through this letter, mark this one so as not to mingle with him, in order that he may be ashamed.
3:15 只是不要以他为仇敌，乃要劝戒他如弟兄。
Yet do not regard him as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother.
3:16 愿平安的主，随时多方亲自赐你们平安；愿主与你们众人同在。
Now the Lord of peace Himself give you peace continually in every way. The Lord be with you all.
3:17 我保罗亲笔问安，这是我每封信的记号，我就是这样写的。
The greeting in my own hand -- Paul -- which is the mark in every letter; so I write.
3:18 愿我们主耶稣基督的恩与你们众人同在。
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
1133
54. 提摩太前书 1 Timothy
提摩太前书 1 Timothy 第 1 章
1:1 照着神我们的救主、和基督耶稣我们的盼望的命令，作基督耶稣使徒的保罗，
Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus according to the command of God our Savior and of Christ Jesus our hope,
1:2 写信给那凭信作我真孩子的提摩太：愿恩典、怜悯、平安，从父神和我们的主基督耶稣归与你。
To Timothy, genuine child in faith: Grace, mercy, peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
1:3 我往马其顿去的时候，曾劝你仍住在以弗所，好嘱咐那几个人，不可教导与神的经纶不同的事，
Even as I exhorted you, when I was going into Macedonia, to remain in Ephesus in order that you might charge certain ones not to teach different things
1:4 也不可注意虚构无稽之事，和无穷的家谱；这等事只引起辩论，对于神在信仰里的经纶并无助益。
Nor to give heed to myths and unending genealogies, which produce questionings rather than God's economy, which is in faith.
1:5 这嘱咐的目的乃是爱，这爱是出于清洁的心、无亏的良心、并无伪的信心。
But the end of the charge is love out of a pure heart and out of a good conscience and out of unfeigned faith;
1:6 有人失去目标，偏离这些，转向虚空的谈论，
From which things some, having misaimed, have turned aside to vain talking,
1:7 想要作律法的教师，却不明白自己所讲说、所断定的。
Desiring to be teachers of the law, though they understand neither the things that they say, nor concerning what they confidently affirm.
1:8 我们晓得律法是好的，只要人用得合法，
But we know that the law is good, if one uses it lawfully
1:9 知道律法不是为义人设立的，乃是为不法和不服的、不敬虔和犯罪的、不圣和世俗的、殴打父母的、杀人的、
And knows this, that the law is not enacted for a righteous man but for the lawless and unruly, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for those
who strike their fathers and those who strike their mothers, for murderers,
1:10 淫乱的、同性恋的、拐人的、说谎的、起假誓的、以及其他敌对健康教训之事设立的，
For fornicators, homosexuals, kidnappers, liars, perjurers, and whatever other thing that is opposed to the healthy teaching,
1:11 这是照着那托付与我，可称颂之神荣耀的福音说的。
According to the gospel of the glory of the blessed God, with which I was entrusted.
1:12 我感谢那加我能力的，我们的主基督耶稣，因祂以我为忠信，派我尽职事。
I give thanks to Him who empowers me, Christ Jesus our Lord, that He has counted me faithful, appointing me to the ministry,
1:13 我从前是亵渎神的、逼迫人的、侮慢人的；然而我蒙了怜悯，因我是在不信中，无知而作的。
Who formerly was a blasphemer and a persecutor and an insulting person; but I was shown mercy because, being ignorant, I acted in unbelief.
1:14 并且我们主的恩是格外增多，使我在基督耶稣里有信，又有爱。
And the grace of our Lord superabounded with faith and love in Christ Jesus.
1:15 基督耶稣降世，为要拯救罪人，这话是可信的，是值得完全接受的；在罪人中我是个罪魁。
Faithful is the word and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am foremost.
1:16 然而，我所以蒙了怜悯，是要叫耶稣基督在我这罪魁身上，显示祂一切的恒忍，给后来信靠祂得永远生命的人作榜样。
But because of this I was shown mercy, that in me, the foremost, Jesus Christ might display all His long-suffering for a pattern to those who are to believe on Him
unto eternal life.
1:17 但愿尊贵荣耀归与那永世的君王，就是那不能朽坏、不能看见、独一的神，直到永永远远。阿们。
Now to the King of the ages, incorruptible, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory for ever and ever. Amen.
1:18 孩子提摩太，我照从前指着你所说的预言，将这嘱咐交托你，叫你凭这些预言，可以打那美好的仗，
This charge I commit to you, my child Timothy, according to the prophecies previously made concerning you, that by them you might war the good warfare,
1:19 持守信心和无亏的良心；有人丢弃这些，就在信仰上犹如船破，
Holding faith and a good conscience, concerning which some, thrusting these away, have become shipwrecked regarding the faith;
1:20 其中有许米乃和亚力山大，我已经把他们交给撒但，使他们受管教，不再谤讟。
Of whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have delivered to Satan that they may be disciplined not to blaspheme.
提摩太前书 1 Timothy 第 2 章
2:1 所以我劝你，第一要为万人祈求、祷告、代求、感谢；
I exhort therefore, first of all, that petitions, prayers, intercessions, thanksgivings be made on behalf of all men;
2:2 为君王和一切有权位的也该如此，使我们可以十分敬虔庄重的过平静安宁的生活。
On behalf of kings and all who are in high position, that we may lead a quiet and tranquil life in all godliness and gravity.
2:3 这在我们的救主神面前，是美好且蒙悦纳的。
This is good and acceptable in the sight of our Savior God,
2:4 祂愿意万人得救，并且完全认识真理；
Who desires all men to be saved and to come to the full knowledge of the truth.
2:5 因为只有一位神，在神和人中间，也只有一位中保，就是那人基督耶稣；
For there is one God and one Mediator of God and men, the man Christ Jesus,
2:6 祂舍了自己，为万人作赎价，在适当的时期，这事就证明出来；
Who gave Himself as a ransom for all, the testimony to be borne in its own times.
2:7 我为此被派，在信仰和真理上，作传扬者，作使徒，（我说的是真话，并不是谎言，）作外邦人的教师。
For which I was appointed a herald and an apostle (I speak the truth; I do not lie), a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth.
2:8 所以，我愿男人无忿怒，无争论，举起虔圣的手，随处祷告。
I desire therefore that men pray in every place, lifting up holy hands, without wrath and reasoning;
1134
2:9 照样，也愿女人穿着正派合宜，以廉耻、自守，不以编发、黄金、珍珠、或贵价的衣服，妆饰自己，
Similarly, that women adorn themselves in proper clothing with modesty and sobriety, not with braided hair and gold or pearls or costly clothing,
2:10 乃借着善行，以那适宜于自称是敬神之女人的为妆饰。
But, what befits women professing godly reverence, by good works.
2:11 女人要安静学习，凡事服从。
Let a woman learn in quietness in all subjection;
2:12 我不许女人施教，也不许她揽权辖管男人，只要安静。
But I do not permit a woman to teach or to assert authority over a man, but to be in quietness.
2:13 因为先造的是亚当，后造的是夏娃；
For Adam was formed first, then Eve;
2:14 并且不是亚当受欺骗，乃是女人受诱骗，陷在过犯里。
And Adam was not deceived; but the woman, having been quite deceived, has fallen into transgression.
2:15 然而女人若活在信、爱、圣别兼自守中，就必借着生产得救。
But she will be saved through her childbearing, if they remain in faith and love and holiness with sobriety.
提摩太前书 1 Timothy 第 3 章
3:1 人若渴望得监督的职分，就是羡慕善工；这话是可信的。
Faithful is the word: If anyone aspires to the overseership, he desires a good work.
3:2 所以作监督的必须无可指责，只作一个妻子的丈夫，节制适度，清明自守，端正规矩，乐意待客，善于教导；
The overseer then must be without reproach, the husband of one wife, temperate, of a sober mind, orderly, hospitable, apt to teach;
3:3 不醉酒滋事，不打人，只要和蔼，不争竞，不贪财；
Not an excessive drinker; not a striker, but gentle; not contentious; not fond of money;
3:4 好好管理自己的家，使儿女凡事庄重服从。
One who manages well his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity
3:5 人若不知道管理自己的家，怎能照料神的召会？
(But if one does not know how to manage his own house, how will he care for the church of God?);
3:6 初信的不可作监督，恐怕他为高傲所蒙蔽，就落在魔鬼所受的审判里。
Not a new convert, lest being blinded with pride he fall into the judgment suffered by the devil.
3:7 监督也必须在外人中间有好见证，恐怕他落在魔鬼借着人的辱骂所设的网罗里。
And he also must have a good testimony from those outside, that he may not fall into reproach and the snare of the devil.
3:8 作执事的也是如此，必须庄重，不一口两舌，不酗酒成瘾，不贪卑鄙的利益；
Deacons must similarly be grave, not double-tongued, not addicted to much wine, not greedy for base gain;
3:9 用清洁的良心持守信仰的奥秘。
Holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience.
3:10 这些人也要先受试验，若是无可指责，才给他们服事。
And these also must first be proved; then let them minister if they are unreprovable.
3:11 女人也是如此，必须庄重，不说谗言，节制适度，凡事忠信。
Women similarly must be grave, not slanderers, temperate, faithful in all things.
3:12 执事只可作一个妻子的丈夫，好好管理儿女和自己的家。
Deacons must be husbands of one wife, managing their children and their own houses well.
3:13 因为善于服事的，自己就得到美好的地步，并且在基督耶稣里的信仰上大有胆量。
For those who have ministered well obtain for themselves a good standing and much boldness in faith, which is in Christ Jesus.
3:14 我将这些事写给你，指望快到你那里去，
These things I write to you, hoping to come to you shortly.
3:15 倘若我耽延，你也可以知道在神的家中当怎样行；这家就是活神的召会，真理的柱石和根基。
But if I delay, I write that you may know how one ought to conduct himself in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and base of the
truth.
3:16 并且，大哉！敬虔的奥秘！这是众所公认的，就是：祂显现于肉体，被称义于灵里，被天使看见，被传于万邦，被信仰于世人中，被接去于荣耀里。
And confessedly, great is the mystery of godliness: He who was manifested in the flesh, Justified in the Spirit, Seen by angels, Preached among the nations,
Believed on in the world, Taken up in glory.
提摩太前书 1 Timothy 第 4 章
4:1 但那灵明说，在后来的时期，必有人离弃信仰，去注意迷惑人的灵和鬼的教训；
But the Spirit says expressly that in later times some will depart from the faith, giving heed to deceiving spirits and teachings of demons
4:2 这乃是借着说谎之人的假冒，他们自己的良心犹如给热铁烙过；
By means of the hypocrisy of men who speak lies, of men who are branded in their own conscience as with a hot iron,
4:3 他们禁止嫁娶，禁戒食物，就是神所造，给那些信的人，并认识真理的人，感谢着享受的。
Who forbid marriage and command abstaining from foods, which God has created to be partaken of with thanksgiving by those who believe and have full
knowledge of the truth.
4:4 因为凡神所造的都是好的，若感谢着领受，就没有一样是可弃的，
For every creature of God is good, and nothing is to be rejected if received with thanksgiving;
4:5 都借着神的话和人的代求，成为圣别了。
1135
For it is sanctified through the word of God and intercession.
4:6 你将这些事提醒弟兄们，便是基督耶稣的好执事，在信仰的话，并你向来所紧紧跟随善美教训的话上，得了喂养。
If you lay these things before the brothers, you will be a good minister of Christ Jesus, being nourished with the words of the faith and of the good teaching which
you have closely followed.
4:7 只是要弃绝那世俗的言语，和老妇的虚构无稽之事，并要操练自己以至于敬虔。
But the profane and old-womanish myths refuse, and exercise yourself unto godliness.
4:8 因为操练身体益处还少；惟独敬虔，凡事都有益处，有今生和来生的应许。
For bodily exercise is profitable for a little, but godliness is profitable for all things, having promise of the present life and of that which is to come.
4:9 这话是可信的，是值得完全接受的。
Faithful is the word and worthy of all acceptance.
4:10 我们劳苦并竭力奋斗，正是为此，因我们乃是寄望于活的神，祂是万人的救主，更是信徒的救主。
For to this end we labor and strive, because we have set our hope on the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of those who believe.
4:11 这些事你要嘱咐人，也要教导人。
Charge and teach these things.
4:12 不可叫人小看你年轻，总要在言语、为人、爱、信、纯洁上，都作信徒的榜样。
Let no one despise your youth, but be a pattern to the believers in word, in conduct, in love, in faith, in purity.
4:13 你要注重宣读、劝勉、教导，直等到我来。
Until I come, attend to the public reading, to the exhortation, to the teaching.
4:14 不要轻忽在你里面的恩赐，就是从前借着预言，同众长老按手所赐给你的。
Do not neglect the gift which is in you, which was given to you by means of prophecy with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery.
4:15 这些事你要殷勤实行，并要投身其中，使众人看出你的长进来。
Practice these things; be in them, that your progress may be manifest to all.
4:16 你要留意自己和自己的教训；要在这些事上持之以恒，因为这样行，又能救自己，又能救听你的人。
Take heed to yourself and to your teaching; continue in these things; for in doing this you will save both yourself and cthose who hear you.
提摩太前书 1 Timothy 第 5 章
5:1 不可严责老年人，只要劝他如同父亲，劝青年人如同弟兄，
Do not upbraid an elderly man, but exhort him as a father, younger men as brothers,
5:2 劝老年妇女如同母亲，用全般的纯洁，劝青年妇女如同姊妹。
Elderly women as mothers, younger women as sisters, in all purity.
5:3 要尊敬寡妇，就是那真为寡妇的。
Honor widows who are really widows.
5:4 若寡妇有儿女，或有孙子孙女，便叫他们先学着孝敬自己的家人，用回敬的奉养报答母亲或祖母，因为这在神面前是可悦纳的。
But if any widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show respect toward their own household and to render a return to their parents; for this is
acceptable in the sight of God.
5:5 那独居无靠真为寡妇的，是寄望于神，昼夜不住的祈求祷告。
Now she who is really a widow and is left alone has set her hope on God and continues in petitions and prayers night and day.
5:6 但那奢侈宴乐的寡妇，虽然活着，也是死的。
But she who gives herself to pleasure is dead while living.
5:7 这些事你要嘱咐她们，使她们无可指责。
These things also charge, that they may be without reproach.
5:8 人若不供养自己的亲属，尤其是自己的家人，就是弃绝了信仰，比不信的人还不如。
But if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially for those of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.
5:9 寡妇记在册上，不可少于六十岁，只作过一个丈夫的妻子，
Let a widow be enrolled, not under sixty years old, having been the wife of one man,
5:10 又有行善的见证，就如养育儿女，接待外人，洗圣徒的脚，救济遭难的人，竭力行各样的善事。
Well attested for good works, if she has brought up children, if she has shown hospitality to strangers, if she has washed the saints' feet, if she has assisted the
afflicted, if she has diligently followed every good work.
5:11 至于年轻的寡妇，就要拒绝；因为她们情欲发动，违背基督的时候，就想要嫁人。
But younger widows refuse; for when they follow their passions in disregard of Christ, they desire to marry,
5:12 她们被判罪，是因废弃了当初的信誓；
And thus have condemnation because they have set aside their first pledge.
5:13 同时她们又习惯懒惰，挨家闲游；不但懒惰，而且说长道短，好管闲事，说些不该说的话。
And at the same time they also learn to be idle, going around from house to house; and they are not only idle but also gossips and busybodies, speaking things
which they ought not.
5:14 所以我愿意年轻的寡妇嫁人，生育儿女，治理家务，不给敌对者有辱骂的机会；
I will therefore that younger widows marry, bear children, keep house, give no opportunity to the opposer for reproach;
5:15 因为有些已经转去随从了撒但。
For already some have turned aside after Satan.
5:16 信主的妇女，若是家中有寡妇，自己就当救济她们，不可累着召会，好使召会能救济那真为寡妇的。
If any believing woman has widows in her family, let her assist them, and let not the church be burdened, that it may assist those who are really widows.
5:17 那善于带领的长老，尤其是那在话语和教导上劳苦的，当被看为配受加倍的敬奉。
Let the elders who take the lead well be counted worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in word and teaching.
5:18 因为经上说，“牛踹谷的时候，不可笼住它的嘴。”又说，“作工的配得工价。”
1136
For the Scripture says, "You shall not muzzle an ox that is treading out the grain,'' and, "The workman is worthy of his pay.''
5:19 对长老的控告，除非凭着两三个见证人，你不要接受。
Against an elder do not receive an accusation, except based upon two or three witnesses.
5:20 犯罪的，当在众人面前责备他，叫其余的也惧怕。
The ones who sin reprove before all that the rest also may have fear.
5:21 我在神和基督耶稣、并蒙拣选的天使面前，郑重的嘱咐你，要遵守这些话，不存成见，行事也无偏心。
I solemnly charge you before God and Christ Jesus and the chosen angels that you keep these things without prejudice, doing nothing by way of partiality.
5:22 给人按手不可急促，不要在别人的罪上有分，要保守自己纯洁。
Lay hands quickly on no man, nor participate in others' sins; keep yourself pure.
5:23 因你胃口不清，屡次患病，再不要照常喝水，要稍微用点酒。
No longer drink water only, but use a little wine for the sake of your stomach and your frequent illnesses.
5:24 有些人的罪是显明的，先去受审判；也有些人的罪是随后跟了去的。
The sins of some men are openly manifest, going before to judgment; and for others, they also follow after.
5:25 照样，善行也有显明的；就是那些不显明的，也不能隐藏。
Likewise also the good works are openly manifest, and those that are otherwise cannot be hidden.
提摩太前书 1 Timothy 第 6 章
6:1 凡在轭下作奴仆的，当以自己的主人为配受十分尊敬的，免得神的名和我们的教训被亵渎。
As many as are slaves under the yoke should regard their own masters as worthy of all honor, lest the name of God and our teaching be blasphemed.
6:2 奴仆若有信主的主人，不可因他们是弟兄就轻看他们，倒要越发服事他们，因为受到你们善良事工之益，而要还报你们的，是相信并蒙爱的。这些事
你要教导人，并劝勉人。
And those who have believing masters should not despise them, because they are brothers; but rather they should serve them, because those who recompense
them for the kindly service received are believers and beloved. These things teach and exhort.
6:3 若有人教导的不同，不赞同健康的话，就是我们主耶稣基督的话，以及那合乎敬虔的教训，
If anyone teaches different things and does not consent to healthy words, those of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the teaching which is according to godliness,
6:4 他是为高傲所蒙蔽，一无所知，却好问难，争辩言辞，由此就生出嫉妒、争竞、毁谤、恶意的猜疑，
He is blinded with pride, understanding nothing, but is diseased with questionings and contentions of words, out of which come envy, strife, slanders, evil
suspicions,
6:5 以及那败坏了心思，以敬虔为得利的门路，而失丧了真理之人无止境的争论。
Perpetual wranglings of men corrupted in mind and deprived of the truth, supposing godliness to be a means of gain.
6:6 然而敬虔又知足，便是大利了；
But godliness with contentment is great gain;
6:7 因为我们没有带什么到世界来，也不能带什么去；
For we have brought nothing into the world, because neither can we carry anything out.
6:8 只要有养生与遮身之物，就当以此为足。
But having food and covering, with these we will be content.
6:9 但那些想要发财的人，就陷在试诱、网罗、和许多无知有害的私欲里，叫人沉溺在败坏和灭亡中。
But those who intend to be rich fall into temptation and a snare and many foolish and harmful desires, which plunge men into destruction and ruin.
6:10 因为贪财是万恶之根，有人贪恋钱财，就受迷惑，离弃了信仰，用许多苦痛把自己刺透了。
For the love of money is a root of all evils, because of which some, aspiring after money, have been led away from the faith and pierced themselves through with
many pains.
6:11 但你这属神的人阿，要逃避这些事，竭力追求公义、敬虔、信、爱、忍耐、温柔。
But you, O man of God, flee these things, and pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, endurance, meekness.
6:12 你要为信仰打那美好的仗，持定永远的生命；你已蒙召进入这永远的生命，也在许多见证人面前，作了美好的承认。
Fight the good fight of the faith; lay hold on the eternal life, to which you were called and have confessed the good confession before many witnesses.
6:13 我在使万物生存的神，并那向本丢彼拉多，作过美好承认之见证的基督耶稣面前嘱咐你，
I charge you before God, who preserves all things in life, and Christ Jesus, who testified the good confession before Pontius Pilate,
6:14 要保守这命令不受玷污，无可指责，直到我们的主耶稣基督显现；
To keep the commandment spotless, without reproach, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ,
6:15 在适当的时期，那可称颂、独有权能的，万王之王，万主之主，
Which in its own times the blessed and only Sovereign will show, the King of those who reign as kings and Lord of those who rule as lords,
6:16 就是那独一不死，住在不能靠近的光中，是人未曾看见，也不能看见的，要将基督这显现显明出来。愿尊贵和永远的权能都归与祂。阿们。
Who alone has immortality, dwelling in unapproachable light, whom no man has seen nor can see, to whom be honor and eternal might. Amen.
6:17 你要嘱咐那些今世富足的人，不要心思高傲，也不要寄望于无定的钱财，只要寄望于那将百物丰富的供给我们享受的神；
Charge those who are rich in the present age not to be high-minded, nor to set their hope on the uncertainty of riches but on God, who affords us all things richly
for our enjoyment;
6:18 又要嘱咐他们行善，在善事上富足，甘心分授，乐意与人同享，
To do good, to be rich in good works, to be ready to distribute, to be ones willing to share;
6:19 为着将来，替自己积存美好的根基作宝藏，叫他们持定那真实的生命。
Laying away for themselves a good foundation as a treasure for the future, that they may lay hold on that which is really life.
6:20 提摩太阿，你要保守所托付你的，避开世俗的空谈，和那些冒称知识的反论；
O Timothy, guard the deposit, turning away from profane, vain babblings and oppositions from what is falsely called knowledge,
6:21 有些人自称有这知识，就在信仰上偏离了目标。愿恩典与你们同在。
Because of which some, professing this, have misaimed regarding the faith. Grace be with you.
1137
1138
55. 提摩太后书 2 Timothy
提摩太后书 2 Timothy 第 1 章
1:1 凭神旨意，照着在基督耶稣里生命的应许，作基督耶稣使徒的保罗，
Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God according to the promise of life, which is in Christ Jesus,
1:2 写信给我亲爱的孩子提摩太：愿恩典、怜悯、平安，从父神和我们的主基督耶稣归与你。
To Timothy, beloved child: Grace, mercy, peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
1:3 我感谢神，就是我接续祖先，用清洁的良心所事奉的神，昼夜祈求的时候，不住的提到你，
I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers in a pure conscience, while unceasingly I have remembrance concerning you in my petitions night and day,
1:4 记念你的眼泪，渴望见你，好叫我充满喜乐；
Longing to see you, remembering your tears, that I may be filled with joy;
1:5 记得你里面无伪的信心，就是先在你外祖母罗以，和你母亲友尼基里面的，我深信也在你里面。
Having been reminded of the unfeigned faith in you, which dwelt first in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice, and I am persuaded dwells also in you.
1:6 为这缘故，我提醒你，将那藉我按手，在你里面神的恩赐，再如火挑旺起来。
For which cause I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God, which is in you through the laying on of my hands.
1:7 因为神赐给我们的，不是胆怯的灵，乃是能力、爱、并清明自守的灵。
For God has not given us a spirit of cowardice, but of power and of love and of sobermindedness.
1:8 所以你不要以给我们的主作见证为耻，也不要以我这主的囚犯为耻；总要按神的能力，与福音同受苦难。
Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord nor of me His prisoner; but suffer evil with the gospel according to the power of God;
1:9 神救了我们，以圣召召了我们，不是按我们的行为，乃是按祂自己的定旨和恩典；这恩典是历世之前，在基督耶稣里赐给我们的，
Who has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works but according to His own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ
Jesus before the times of the ages
1:10 但如今借着我们救主基督耶稣的显现，才显明出来。祂已经把死废掉，借着福音将生命和不朽坏照耀出来；
But now has been manifested through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who nullified death and brought life and incorruption to light through the gospel,
1:11 我为这福音被派作传扬者，作使徒，作教师。
For which I was appointed a herald and an apostle and a teacher.
1:12 为这缘故，我也受这些苦难；然而我不以为耻，因为知道我所信的是谁，也深信祂能保守我所托付的，直到那日。
For which cause also I suffer these things; but I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and I am persuaded that He is able to guard my deposit unto
that day.
1:13 你从我听的那健康话语的规范，要用基督耶稣里的信和爱持守着。
Hold a pattern of the healthy words that you have heard from me, in the faith and love which are in Christ Jesus.
1:14 你要借着那住在我们里面的圣灵，保守那美好的托付。
Guard the good deposit through the Holy Spirit who dwells in us.
1:15 你知道所有在亚西亚的人都离弃了我，其中有腓吉路和黑摩其尼。
This you know, that all who are in Asia turned away from me, of whom are Phygelus and Hermogenes.
1:16 愿主怜悯阿尼色弗一家，因他屡次使我舒爽，且不以我的锁炼为耻；
May the Lord grant mercy to the house of Onesiphorus, for he often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chain;
1:17 反倒在罗马的时候，殷勤的寻找我，并且找着了。
But being in Rome, he sought me out diligently and found me.
1:18 愿主使他在那日从主得着怜悯。他在以弗所怎样多方的服事我，你知道得最清楚。
May the Lord grant him to find mercy from the Lord in that day. And in how many things he served me in Ephesus, you know best.
提摩太后书 2 Timothy 第 2 章
2:1 所以，我的孩子，你要在基督耶稣里的恩典上得着加力，
You therefore, my child, be empowered in the grace which is in Christ Jesus;
2:2 你在许多见证人面前从我所听见的，要托付那忠信、能教导别人的人。
And the things which you have heard from me through many witnesses, these commit to faithful men, who will be competent to teach others also.
2:3 你要和我同受苦难，好像基督耶稣的精兵。
Suffer evil with me as a good soldier of Christ Jesus.
2:4 凡当兵的，不让今生的事务缠身，好叫那招他入伍的人喜悦。
No one serving as a soldier entangles himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please the one who enlisted him.
2:5 竞赛的人，非按规矩竞赛，就不能得华冠。
And also if anyone contends in the games, he is not crowned unless he contends lawfully.
2:6 劳力的农夫，理当先分享果实。
The laboring farmer must be the first to partake of the fruit.
2:7 我所说的你要思想，因为凡事主必给你领悟力。
Consider what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in all things.
2:8 你要记念那从死人中得复活的耶稣基督，祂是出于大卫的后裔，这正合乎我所传的福音；
Remember Jesus Christ, raised from the dead, of the seed of David, according to my gospel,
2:9 我在这福音上受苦难，甚至被捆绑像犯人一样，然而神的话却不被捆绑。
In which I suffer evil unto bonds as a criminal; but the word of God is not bound.
2:10 所以我为选民凡事忍耐，叫他们也可以得着那在基督耶稣里的救恩，同永远的荣耀。
Therefore I endure all things for the sake of the chosen ones, that they themselves also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.
1139
2:11 有可信的话说，我们若与基督同死，也必与祂同活；
Faithful is the word: For if we died with Him, we will also live with Him;
2:12 我们如果忍耐，也必与祂一同作王；我们如果不认祂，祂也必不认我们；
If we endure, we will also reign with Him; if we deny Him, He also will deny us;
2:13 我们纵然失信，祂仍是可信的，因为祂不能否定自己。
If we are faithless, He remains faithful, for He cannot deny Himself.
2:14 你要将这些事提醒众人，在神面前郑重的嘱咐他们，不可为言辞争辩，这是毫无用处的，只能败坏听见的人。
Remind them of these things, solemnly charging them before God not to have contentions of words, which is useful for nothing, to the ruin of those who hear.
2:15 你当竭力将自己呈献神前，得蒙称许，作无愧的工人，正直的分解真理的话。
Be diligent to present yourself approved to God, an unashamed workman, cutting straight the word of the truth.
2:16 但要远避世俗的空谈，因为这些空谈必进而成为更不敬虔。
But avoid profane, vain babblings, for they will advance to more ungodliness,
2:17 他们的话必像毒疮蔓衍；其中有许米乃和腓理徒，
And their word will spread like gangrene, of whom are Hymenaeus and Philetus,
2:18 他们在真理上偏离了目标，说复活的事已过，就倾覆一些人的信心。
Who concerning the truth have misaimed, saying that the resurrection has already taken place, and overthrow the faith of some.
2:19 然而，神坚固的根基立住了，上面有这印记说，主认识属于祂的人。又说，凡称呼主名的人，总要离开不义。
However the firm foundation of God stands, having this seal, The Lord knows those who are His, and, Let everyone who names the name of the Lord depart from
unrighteousness.
2:20 但在大户人家，不但有金器银器，也有木器瓦器；有作为贵重的，也有作为卑贱的；
But in a great house there are not only gold and silver vessels but also wooden and earthen; and some are unto honor, and some unto dishonor.
2:21 所以人若洁净自己，脱离这些卑贱的，就必成为贵重的器皿，分别为圣，合乎主人使用，预备行各样的善事。
If therefore anyone cleanses himself from these, he will be a vessel unto honor, sanctified, useful to the master, prepared unto every good work.
2:22 你要逃避青年人的私欲，同那清心呼求主的人，竭力追求公义、信、爱、和平。
But flee youthful lusts, and pursue righteousness, faith, love, peace with those who call on the Lord out of a pure heart.
2:23 至于愚拙无学问的辩论，总要弃绝，知道这些事是产生争竞的。
But foolish questionings and those arising from an untrained mind refuse, knowing that they beget contentions.
2:24 但主的奴仆不该争竞，总要温温和和的待众人，善于教导，忍受苦害，
But a slave of the Lord ought not to contend but be gentle toward all, apt to teach, bearing with wrong;
2:25 用温柔规劝那些抵挡的人；或许神给他们悔改的心，得以认识真理；
In meekness correcting those who oppose, if perhaps God may give them repentance unto the full knowledge of the truth,
2:26 他们这些已被魔鬼活捉了去的，也可以醒悟过来，脱离他的网罗，归于神的旨意。
And they may return to soberness out of the snare of the devil, having been caught alive by him, unto His will.
提摩太后书 2 Timothy 第 3 章
3:1 但你要知道，末后的日子必有艰难的时期来到；
But know this, that in the last days difficult times will come.
3:2 因为那时人要成为爱自己者、爱钱财者、自夸者、狂傲的、毁谤者、违背父母的、忘恩负义的、不圣的、
For men will be lovers of self, lovers of money, boasters, arrogant, revilers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy,
3:3 无亲情的、不解怨的、好说谗言者、不能自约的、性情凶暴的、不爱良善者、
Without natural affection, implacable, slanderers, without self-control, savage, not lovers of good,
3:4 卖主卖友者、卤莽行事的、为高傲所蒙蔽的，宁愿作爱宴乐者，不愿作爱神者；
Traitors, reckless, blinded with pride, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God,
3:5 有敬虔的外形，却否认了敬虔的能力；这等人你要躲开。
Having an outward form of godliness, though denying its power; from these also turn away.
3:6 他们中间有人偷进人家，牢笼无知的妇女；这些妇女为罪堆压，被各样私欲牵引，
For of these are those who creep into houses and take captive silly women heaped with sins, who are led by various desires
3:7 常常学习，终久不能认识真理。
And are always learning yet never able to come to the full knowledge of the truth.
3:8 雅尼和佯庇曾用什么方法抵挡摩西，这等人也照样抵挡真理；他们是心思败坏了的人，在信仰上是不蒙称许的。
And in the manner that Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses, so these also oppose the truth; men corrupted in mind, disapproved concerning the faith.
3:9 然而他们不能再这样下去，因为他们的无知，必在众人面前完全显露出来，像那二人一样。
But they will not advance farther, for their folly will be completely manifest to all, as also the folly of those became.
3:10 但你已经紧紧跟随了我的教训、品行、志向、信心、宽容、爱心、忍耐、
But you have closely followed my teaching, conduct, purpose, faith, long-suffering, love, endurance,
3:11 逼迫、苦难，就是我在安提阿、以哥念、路司得所遭遇的；我所忍受的是何等的逼迫，但从这一切之中，主都把我救出来了。
Persecutions, sufferings, such as befell me in Antioch, in Iconium, in Lystra. Such persecutions I bore, and out of them all the Lord delivered me.
3:12 不但如此，凡立志在基督耶稣里过敬虔生活的，也都要受逼迫。
And indeed all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted.
3:13 只是恶人和骗子，必进而变为更恶，他们迷惑人，也受人迷惑。
But evil men and impostors will grow worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived.
3:14 但你所学习、所确信的，要活在其中，因为知道你是跟谁学的，
But you, continue in the things which you have learned and have been assured of, knowing from which ones you have learned them
3:15 并且知道你是从小明白圣经；这圣经能使你借着相信基督耶稣，有得救的智慧。
1140
And that from a babe you have known the sacred writings, which are able to make you wise unto salvation through the faith which is in Christ Jesus.
3:16 圣经都是神的呼出，对于教训、督责、改正、在义上的教导，都是有益的，
All Scripture is God-breathed and profitable for teaching, for conviction, for correction, for instruction in righteousness,
3:17 叫属神的人得以完备，为着各样的善工，装备齐全。
That the man of God may be complete, fully equipped for every good work.
提摩太后书 2 Timothy 第 4 章
4:1 我在神并那将要审判活人死人的基督耶稣面前，凭着祂的显现和祂的国度，郑重的嘱咐你，
I solemnly charge you before God and Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by His appearing and His kingdom:
4:2 务要传道；无论得时不得时，都要预备好，用全般的恒忍和教训，叫人知罪自责，谴责人，劝勉人。
Proclaim the word; be ready in season and out of season; convict, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and teaching.
4:3 因为时候要到，那时人必容不下健康的教训，反而耳朵发痒，随着自己的情欲，给自己堆积起教师来；
For the time will come when they will not tolerate the healthy teaching; but according to their own lusts they will heap up to themselves teachers, having itching
ears,
4:4 并且转耳离弃真理，偏向虚构无稽之事。
And they will turn away their ear from the truth and will be turned aside to myths.
4:5 你却要凡事谨慎自守，忍受苦难，作传福音者的工作，尽你的职事。
But you, be sober in all things, suffer evil, do the work of an evangelist, fully accomplish your ministry.
4:6 我现在被浇奠，我离世的时候到了。
For I am already being poured out, and the time of my departure is at hand.
4:7 那美好的仗我已经打过了，当跑的赛程我已经跑尽了，当守的信仰我已经守住了；
I have fought the good fight; I have finished the course; I have kept the faith.
4:8 从此以后，有公义的冠冕为我存留，就是主，那公义的审判者，在那日要赏赐我的；不但赏赐我，也赏赐凡爱祂显现的人。
Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, with which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will recompense me in that day, and not only me but also
all those who have loved His appearing.
4:9 你要尽快的到我这里来；
Be diligent to come to me quickly;
4:10 因为底马爱了现今的世代，就离弃我往帖撒罗尼迦去了；革勒士往加拉太去，提多往挞马太去。
For Demas has abandoned me, having loved the present age, and has gone to Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia; Titus to Dalmatia.
4:11 独有路加同我在一起。你要接得马可，带他同来，因为他在服事上对我有用处。
Luke alone is with me. Take Mark and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for the ministry.
4:12 我已经打发推基古往以弗所去。
But Tychicus I have sent to Ephesus.
4:13 我在特罗亚留于加布的那件外衣，你来的时候要带来，还有那些书卷，尤其是那些皮卷。
The cloak which I left in Troas with Carpus, bring when you come, and the scrolls, especially the parchments.
4:14 铜匠亚力山大多多的害我，主必照他所行的报应他。
Alexander the coppersmith did many evil things to me; the Lord will recompense him according to his works.
4:15 你也要防备他，因为他极力抵挡我们的话。
You also guard against him, for he greatly opposed our words.
4:16 我初次申诉的时候，没有人在旁支持我，众人都离弃我；但愿这罪不归与他们。
At my first defense no one was with me to support me, but all abandoned me. May it not be counted against them.
4:17 惟有主与我站在一起，加给我能力，使福音借着我传得完全，叫一切的外邦人都可听见；我也从狮子口里被救出来。
But the Lord stood with me and empowered me that through me the proclamation of the gospel might be fully accomplished and all the Gentiles might hear; and
I was delivered out of the lion's mouth.
4:18 主必救我脱离各样凶恶的事，也必救我进入祂属天的国。愿荣耀归与祂，直到永永远远。阿们。
The Lord will deliver me from every evil work and will save me into His heavenly kingdom, to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
4:19 问百基拉、亚居拉、和阿尼色弗一家的人安。
Greet Prisca and Aquila and the house of Onesiphorus.
4:20 以拉都在哥林多住下了。特罗非摩病了，我就留他在米利都。
Erastus remained in Corinth, and Trophimus I left at Miletus sick.
4:21 你要赶紧在冬天以前来。友布罗、布田、利奴、革老底亚和众弟兄，都问你安。
Be diligent to come before winter. Eubulus greets you, as well as Pudens and Linus and Claudia and all the brothers.
4:22 愿主与你的灵同在。愿恩典与你同在。
The Lord be with your spirit. Grace be with you.
1141
56. 提多书 Titus
提多书 Titus 第 1 章
1:1 照着神选民的信仰，与合乎敬虔之真理的知识，
Paul, a slave of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ according to the faith of God's chosen ones and the full knowledge of the truth, which is according to
godliness,
1:2 根据永远生命的盼望，（就是那不能说谎的神，在历世之前所应许，
In the hope of eternal life, which God, who cannot lie, promised before the times of the ages
1:3 到了适当的时期，借着那按我们救主神的命令所托付我传扬的福音，将祂的话显明出来的，）作神的奴仆、并耶稣基督使徒的保罗，
But in its own times manifested His word in the proclamation with which I was entrusted according to the command of our Savior God;
1:4 写信给照着共同的信仰，作我真孩子的提多：愿恩典与平安，从父神和我们的救主基督耶稣归与你。
To Titus, genuine child according to the common faith: Grace and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Savior.
1:5 我从前留你在革哩底，是要你将我所未办完的事办理妥当，又照我所吩咐你的，在各城设立长老。
For this cause I left you in Crete, that you might set in order the things which I have begun that remain and appoint elders in every city, as I directed you:
1:6 若有人无可指责，只作一个妻子的丈夫，儿女是信主的，没有人告他们是放荡、或不服约束的，就可以设立。
If anyone is unreprovable, the husband of one wife, having believing children not accused of dissoluteness or unruly.
1:7 因为监督是神的管家，必须无可指责，不任性，不暴躁，不醉酒滋事，不打人，不贪卑鄙的利益；
For the overseer must be unreprovable as a steward of God, not self-willed, not quick tempered, not an excessive drinker, not a striker, not greedy for base gain;
1:8 却乐意待客，喜爱良善，清明自守，义、圣、节制；
But hospitable, a lover of good, of a sober mind, righteous, holy, self-controlled;
1:9 坚守那按照使徒教训可信靠的话，好能用健康的教训劝勉人，又能使那些反对的人知罪自责。
Holding to the faithful word, which is according to the teaching of the apostles, that he may be able both to exhort by the healthy teaching and to convict those
who oppose.
1:10 因为有许多人不服约束，说虚空的话，欺哄人，那些奉割礼的人更是这样，
For there are many unruly men, vain talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision,
1:11 这些人的口必须堵住；他们为了卑鄙的利益，将不当教导的事教导人，就倾覆了人的全家。
Whose mouths must be stopped, who overthrow whole households, teaching things for the sake of base gain, which they ought not to do.
1:12 有革哩底人中间的一位，就是他们自己的申言者，曾说，革哩底人常是说谎的，乃是恶兽，又馋又懒。
One from among themselves, a prophet of their own, said, Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, idle gluttons.
1:13 这个见证是真的；为这缘故，你要严厉的责备他们，使他们在信仰上健康，
This testimony is true; for which cause reprove them severely that they may be healthy in the faith,
1:14 不注意犹太人虚构无稽之事，和转离真理之人的诫命。
Not paying attention to Jewish myths and the commandments of men who turn away from the truth.
1:15 对洁净的人，凡物都洁净；但对污秽不信的人，什么都不洁净，反而连他们的心思和良心，也都污秽了。
All things are pure to the pure; yet to those who are defiled and unbelieving nothing is pure, but both their mind and their conscience are defiled.
1:16 他们自称认识神，却在行为上否认祂，本是可憎恶的、悖逆的，在各样善事上是不蒙称许的。
They profess to know God, but by their works they deny Him, being abominable and disobedient and, as to every good work, disapproved.
提多书 Titus 第 2 章
2:1 至于你，要讲那合乎健康教训的话。
But you, speak the things which are fitting to the healthy teaching.
2:2 劝老年人要节制适度、庄重、清明自守，在信、爱、忍耐上都要健康。
Exhort older men to be temperate, grave, of a sober mind, healthy in faith, in love, in endurance;
2:3 劝老年妇人也是一样，在举止行动上，要和有分于圣事的人相称，不说谗言，不被酒奴役，将善美的事教导人，
Older women likewise to be in demeanor as befits those who engage in sacred things, not slanderers, nor enslaved by much wine, teachers of what is good,
2:4 好训练年轻的妇人爱丈夫，爱儿女，
That they may train the young women to love their husbands, to love their children,
2:5 清明自守，贞洁，料理家务，良善，服从自己的丈夫，免得神的话被毁谤。
To be of a sober mind, pure, workers at home, good, subject to their own husbands, that the word of God would not be blasphemed.
2:6 劝青年人也是一样，要清明自守。
The younger men likewise exhort to be of a sober mind,
2:7 在凡事上你自己要显出善行的榜样，在教导上要不腐化，要庄重，
Concerning all things presenting yourself as a pattern of good works: in your teaching showing incorruption, gravity,
2:8 要用无可挑剔的健康言语，使那反对的人既没有坏事可说到我们，便自觉羞愧。
Healthy speech that cannot be condemned, that he who opposes may be put to shame, having nothing evil to say about us.
2:9 劝奴仆要凡事服从自己的主人，讨他们的喜欢，不可顶撞他们，
Exhort slaves to be subject to their own masters in all things, to be well pleasing, not contradicting,
2:10 不可私拿东西，却要显为绝对优良可信，好使我们救主神的教训在凡事上都得光荣。
Not pilfering, but showing all good faithfulness that they may adorn the teaching of our Savior God in all things.
2:11 因为神救万人的恩典，已经显现出来，
For the grace of God, bringing salvation to all men, has appeared,
2:12 教导我们弃绝不敬虔和属世的情欲，好在今世过自守、公义、敬虔的生活，
Training us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly and righteously and godly in the present age,
1142
2:13 等候那有福的盼望，就是至大的神和我们的救主，耶稣基督之荣耀的显现。
Awaiting the blessed hope, even the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ,
2:14 祂为我们舍了自己，要赎我们脱离一切的不法，并洁净我们，归祂自己成为独特的子民，作祂特有的产业，热心行善。
Who gave Himself for us that He might redeem us from all lawlessness and purify to Himself a particular people as His unique possession, zealous of good
works.
2:15 这些事你要讲说，也要用各等权柄劝勉人、责备人；不可叫人轻看你。
These things speak, and exhort and convict with all authority. Let no one despise you.
提多书 Titus 第 3 章
3:1 你要提醒众人服从执政的、掌权的，顺从他们，预备行各样的善事。
Remind them to be subject to rulers, to authorities, to be obedient, to be ready unto every good work,
3:2 不要毁谤人，不要争竞，乃要谦让宜人，向众人显出十分的温柔。
To slander no one, to be uncontentious, gentle, showing all meekness toward all men.
3:3 因为我们从前也是无知、悖逆、受迷惑的，给各样的私欲和宴乐作奴仆，将生命时光耗费于恶毒和嫉妒，是可恨的，又是彼此相恨。
For we also were once foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving as slaves various lusts and pleasures, spending our lives in malice and envy, hateful, hating one
another.
3:4 然而，当我们救主神的恩慈，和祂对人的爱显现的时候，
But when the kindness and the love to man of our Savior God appeared,
3:5 祂便救了我们，并不是本于我们所成就的义行，乃是照着祂的怜悯，借着重生的洗涤，和圣灵的更新。
Not out of works in righteousness which we did but according to His mercy He saved us, through the washing of regeneration and the renewing of the Holy Spirit,
3:6 这圣灵就是神借着耶稣基督我们的救主，丰丰富富浇灌在我们身上的，
Whom He poured out upon us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior,
3:7 好叫我们既因祂的恩典得称义，就可以照着永远生命的盼望成为后嗣。
In order that having been justified by His grace, we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life.
3:8 这话是可信的，我也愿你把这些事确实坚信的讲明，使那些已信神的人留心作正经事业。这些都是美事，并且与人有益。
Faithful is the word, and concerning these things I desire you to confidently affirm, so that those who have believed in God may be careful to maintain respectable
works. These things are good and profitable to men.
3:9 但要远避愚拙的辩论、家谱、争竞、以及因律法而起的争论，因为这些都是无益虚妄的。
But avoid foolish questionings and genealogies and strifes and contentions about the law, for they are unprofitable and vain.
3:10 分门结党的人，警戒过一两次，就要拒绝；
A factious man, after a first and second admonition, refuse,
3:11 知道这等人已经深入歧途，虽定自己的罪，仍是犯罪。
Knowing that such a one is perverted and is sinning, though he is condemned by his own self.
3:12 我打发亚提马或推基古到你那里去的时候，你要赶紧往尼哥波立去见我，因为我已经定意在那里过冬。
When I send Artemas to you or Tychicus, be diligent to come to me at Nicopolis, for I have decided to spend the winter there.
3:13 你要赶紧给律法师西纳和亚波罗送行，叫他们没有缺乏。
Zenas the lawyer and Apollos send forward diligently that nothing may be lacking to them.
3:14 并且我们的人也要学习作正经事业，好应必需，免得不结果子。
And let those also who are ours learn to maintain respectable works for their necessary needs, that they may not be unfruitful.
3:15 同我在一起的众人都问你安。请代问那些因信爱我们的人安。愿恩典与你们众人同在。
All who are with me greet you. Greet those who love us in faith. Grace be with you all.
1143
57. 腓利门书 Philemon
腓利门书 Philemon 第 1 章
1:1 基督耶稣的囚犯保罗，和弟兄提摩太，写信给所爱的并我们的同工腓利门，
Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy the brother, to Philemon our beloved and fellow worker
1:2 和姊妹亚腓亚，并与我们一同当兵的亚基布，以及在你家中的召会：
And to Apphia the sister and to Archippus our fellow soldier and to the church, which is in your house:
1:3 愿恩典与平安，从神我们的父，并主耶稣基督归与你们。
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1:4 我祷告的时候提到你，常常感谢我的神，
I thank my God always, making mention of you in my prayers,
1:5 因听见你对主耶稣，并对众圣徒的爱与信；
Hearing of your love and the faith which you have toward the Lord Jesus and to all the saints,
1:6 愿你信的交通显出功效，使人充分认识你们里面为着基督的各样善事。
That the fellowship of your faith may become effective in the full knowledge of every good thing which is in you for Christ.
1:7 因为弟兄阿，我因你的爱，大大喜乐，满受鼓励，因为众圣徒的心肠借着你得了舒畅。
For I had much joy and encouragement over your love, because the inward parts of the saints have been refreshed through you, brother.
1:8 为此，我虽然在基督里能大有胆量吩咐你合宜的事，
Therefore though I have much boldness in Christ to charge you what is fitting,
1:9 然而像我这有年纪的保罗，现在又是基督耶稣的囚犯，宁可因着爱恳求你，
Because of love I rather entreat, being such a one as Paul the aged and now also a prisoner of Christ Jesus.
1:10 就是为我在捆锁中所生的孩子欧尼西母恳求你；
I entreat you concerning my child, whom I have begotten in my bonds, Onesimus,
1:11 他从前对你没有益处，但如今对你我都有益处。
Who formerly was useless to you but now is useful both to you and to me.
1:12 我现在打发他回你那里去，他乃是我心上的人。
Him I have sent back to you -- him, that is, my very heart --
1:13 我本有意将他留在身边，使他在我为福音所受的捆锁中，替你服事我。
Whom I intended to keep with myself that on your behalf he might minister to me in the bonds of the gospel.
1:14 但未得知你的意见，我就不愿作什么，好叫你的善行不像是出于勉强，乃是出于甘心。
But without your mind I did not want to do anything, that your goodness would not be as of necessity, but voluntary.
1:15 因为他暂时离开你，或者是叫你可以永远完全得着他，
For perhaps for this reason he was separated from you for but an hour, that you might fully have him forever,
1:16 不再是奴仆，乃是高过奴仆，是亲爱的弟兄，对我固然是如此，对你，不拘在肉身上，或在主里，岂不都更是这样。
No longer as a slave, but above a slave, a beloved brother, especially to me, but how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord.
1:17 所以，你若以我为同伙，就接纳他，如同接纳我一样。
If then you hold me as a partner, receive him as myself.
1:18 他若亏负你，或欠你什么，这都归在我的账上；
And if he has wronged you in anything or owes anything, charge that to my account.
1:19 我必偿还，这是我保罗亲笔写的。我并不用对你说，连你自己也是亏欠于我。
I, Paul, have written with my own hand: I will repay; not to say to you that you owe me even your own self besides.
1:20 弟兄阿，是的，愿我在主里从你得着益处，愿你使我的心肠在基督里得舒畅。
Yes, brother, may I have profit from you in the Lord; refresh my inward parts in Christ.
1:21 我写信给你，深信你必顺从，知道你所要行的，甚至必过于我所说的。
Having confidence in your obedience, I have written to you, knowing that you will do even beyond the things that I say.
1:22 同时，你还要给我预备住所，因为我盼望借着你们的祷告，我可当作恩典赐给你们。
And at the same time also prepare me a lodging, for I hope that through your prayers I will be graciously given to you.
1:23 在基督耶稣里与我一同坐监的以巴弗问你安。
Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, greets you;
1:24 我的同工马可、亚里达古、底马、路加，也都问你安。
As do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, Luke, my fellow workers.
1:25 愿主耶稣基督的恩与你们的灵同在。
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
1144
58. 希伯来书 Hebrews
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 1 章
1:1 神既在古时，借着众申言者，多分多方向列祖说话，
God, having spoken of old in many portions and in many ways to the fathers in the prophets,
1:2 就在这末后的日子，在子里向我们说话；神已立祂作承受万有者，也曾借着祂造了宇宙；
Has at the last of these days spoken to us in the Son, whom He appointed Heir of all things, through whom also He made the universe;
1:3 祂是神荣耀的光辉，是神本质的印像，用祂大能的话维持、载着并推动万有；祂成就了洗罪的事，就坐在高处至尊至大者的右边；
Who, being the effulgence of His glory and the impress of His substance and upholding and bearing all things by the word of His power, having made
purification of sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high;
1:4 祂所承受的名，既比天使的名更超特，祂就比天使更美。
Having become as much better than the angels as to have inherited a more distinguished name than they.
1:5 神曾对那一个天使说过，“你是我的儿子，我今日生了你？”又说，“我要作祂的父，祂要作我的儿子？”
For to which of the angels has He ever said, "You are My Son; this day have I begotten You''? And again, "I will be a Father to Him, and He will be a Son to Me''?
1:6 再者，神再带长子到世上来的时候，就说，“神的众使者都要拜祂。”
And when He brings again the Firstborn into the inhabited earth, He says, "And let all the angels of God worship Him.''
1:7 论到使者，祂说，“神使祂的使者为风，并使祂的仆役为火焰。”
And of the angels He says, "Who makes His angels winds and His ministers a flame of fire'';
1:8 论到子却说，“神阿，你的宝座是永永远远的，你国的权杖是正直的权杖。
But of the Son, "Your throne, O God, is forever and ever, and the scepter of uprightness is the scepter of Your kingdom.
1:9 你爱公义，恨恶不法；所以神，就是你的神，用欢乐的油膏你，胜过膏你的同伙。”
You have loved righteousness and hated lawlessness; therefore God, Your God, has anointed You with the oil of exultant joy above Your partners'';
1:10 又说，“主阿，你起初立了地的根基，诸天也是你手的工作；
And, "You in the beginning, Lord, laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the works of Your hands;
1:11 天地都要灭没，你却长存；一切都要像衣服渐渐旧了，
They will perish, but You remain perpetually; and they all will become old like a garment,
1:12 你要将天地像外衣一样卷起来，天地就像衣服一样改变了；惟有你仍是一样，你的年数也没有穷尽。”
And like a mantle You will roll them up; like a garment they will also be changed; but You are the same, and Your years will not fail.''
1:13 神曾对那一个天使说过，“你坐在我的右边，等我使你的仇敌作你的脚凳？”
But to which of the angels has He ever said, "Sit at My right hand until I set Your enemies as a footstool for Your feet''?
1:14 天使岂不都是服役的灵，奉差遣为那些将要承受救恩的人效力么？
Are they not all ministering spirits, sent forth for service for the sake of those who are to inherit salvation?
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 2 章
2:1 所以，我们必须越发注重所听见的，恐怕我们随流漂去。
Therefore we ought to give heed more abundantly to the things which have been heard lest perhaps we drift away.
2:2 那借着天使所说的话，既是确定的，凡干犯、悖逆的，又都受了该受的报应；
For if the word spoken through angels proved firm and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense,
2:3 我们若忽略了这么大的救恩，怎能逃罪？这救恩起先是主亲自讲的，后来听见的人给我们证实了；
How shall we escape if we have neglected so great a salvation, which, having had its beginning in being spoken by the Lord, has been confirmed to us by those
who heard,
2:4 又有神按自己的旨意，用神迹、奇事、并各样的异能、以及圣灵分给的恩赐，同他们作见证。
God bearing witness with them both by signs and wonders and by various works of power and by distributions of the Holy Spirit according to His will?
2:5 我们所说要来的世界，神原没有交给天使管辖。
For it was not to angels that He subjected the coming inhabited earth, concerning which we speak.
2:6 但有人在经上某处郑重见证说，“人算什么，你竟顾念他？世人算什么，你竟眷顾他？
But one has solemnly testified somewhere, saying, "What is man, that You bring him to mind? Or the son of man, that You care for him?
2:7 你使祂比天使微小一点，赐祂荣耀尊贵为冠冕，并派祂管理你手所造的，
You have made Him a little inferior to the angels; You have crowned Him with glory and honor and have set Him over the works of Your hands;
2:8 叫万有都服在祂的脚下。”既叫万有都服祂，就没有留下一样不服祂的。只是如今我们还不见万有都服祂，
You have subjected all things under His feet.'' For in subjecting all things to Him, He left nothing unsubject to Him. But now we do not yet see all things subjected
to Him,
2:9 惟独看见耶稣得了荣耀尊贵为冠冕，祂为着受死的苦，成为比天使微小一点的，好叫祂因着神的恩，为样样尝到死味。
But we see Jesus, who was made a little inferior to the angels because of the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor, so that by the grace of God He
might taste death on behalf of everything.
2:10 原来万有因祂而有，藉祂而造的那位，为着要领许多的儿子进荣耀里去，就借着苦难成全他们救恩的创始者，这对祂本是合宜的。
For it was fitting for Him, for whom are all things and through whom are all things, in leading many sons into glory, to make the Author of their salvation perfect
through sufferings.
2:11 因那圣别人的，和那些被圣别的，都是出于一；因这缘故，祂称他们为弟兄，并不以为耻，说，
For both He who sanctifies and those who are being sanctified are all of One, for which cause He is not ashamed to call them brothers,
2:12 “我要向我的弟兄宣告你的名，在召会中我要歌颂你。”
Saying, "I will declare Your name to My brothers; in the midst of the church I will sing hymns of praise to You.''
2:13 又说，“我要信靠祂。”又说，“看哪，我与神所给我的儿女。”
1145
And again, "I will trust in Him.'' And again, "Behold, I and the children whom God has given to Me.''
2:14 儿女既同有血肉之体，祂也照样亲自有分于血肉之体，为要借着死，废除那掌死权的，就是魔鬼，
Since therefore the children have shared in blood and flesh, He also Himself in like manner partook of the same, that through death He might destroy him who
has the might of death, that is, the devil,
2:15 并要释放那些一生因怕死而受挟于奴役的人。
And might release those who because of the fear of death through all their life were held in slavery.
2:16 诚然祂不是救援天使，乃是救援亚伯拉罕的后裔。
For assuredly it is not to angels that He gives help, but He gives help to the seed of Abraham.
2:17 所以祂凡事该与祂的弟兄一样，为要在关于神的事上，成为怜悯、忠信的大祭司，好为百姓的罪成就平息。
Hence He should have been made like His brothers in all things that He might become a merciful and faithful High Priest in the things pertaining to God, to make
propitiation for the sins of the people.
2:18 因为祂既然在所受的苦上被试诱，就能帮助被试诱的人。
For being tempted in that which He Himself has suffered, He is able to help those who are being tempted.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 3 章
3:1 所以，有分于属天呼召的圣别弟兄们，你们应当留意思想我们所承认为使徒、为大祭司的耶稣；
Therefore, holy brothers, partakers of a heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our confession, Jesus,
3:2 祂对那设立祂的忠信，如同摩西在神的全家忠信一样。
Who was faithful to Him who constituted Him, as also Moses was in all His house.
3:3 祂比摩西被断为配得更多的荣耀，就像建设房屋的比房屋更尊贵。
For He has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, by as much as He who built the house has more honor than the house.
3:4 因为每一座房屋都是由人建设的，但建设万有的乃是神。
For every house is built by someone, but He who built all things is God.
3:5 摩西为仆人，在神的全家忠信，为要给将来传讲的事作见证；
And Moses was faithful in all His house as a servant, for a testimony of the things to be spoken later;
3:6 但基督为儿子，治理神的家；我们若将因盼望而有的胆量和夸耀坚守到底，便是祂的家了。
But Christ was faithful as a Son over His house, whose house we are if indeed we hold fast the boldness and the boast of hope firm to the end.
3:7 所以，正如圣灵所说的，“你们今日若听见祂的声音，
Therefore, even as the Holy Spirit says, "Today if you hear His voice,
3:8 就不可硬着心，像在旷野惹祂发怒时，试探祂的日子一样；
Do not harden your hearts as in the provocation, in the day of trial in the wilderness,
3:9 在那里你们的祖宗以试验试探我，并且观看我的作为四十年。
Where your fathers tried Me by testing Me and saw My works for forty years.
3:10 所以我厌烦那一代的人，说，他们心里时常迷糊，竟不晓得我的法则；
Therefore I was displeased with this generation, and I said, They always go astray in their heart, and they have not known My ways;
3:11 我就在怒中起誓说，他们绝不可进入我的安息。”
As I swore in My wrath, They shall not enter into My rest!''
3:12 弟兄们，你们要谨慎，免得你们中间，或有人存着不信的恶心，将活神离弃了。
Beware, brothers, lest perhaps there be in any one of you an evil heart of unbelief in falling away from the living God.
3:13 总要趁着还有称为“今日”的时候，天天彼此相劝，免得你们中间有人被罪迷惑，心就刚硬了。
But exhort one another each day, as long as it is called "today,'' lest any one of you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin.
3:14 “你们今日若听见祂的声音，就不可硬着心，像惹祂发怒的时候一样。”当这话还在说的时候，
For we have become partners of Christ, if indeed we hold fast the beginning of the assurance firm to the end,
3:15 我们若将起初的确信坚守到底，就必作基督的同伙了。
While it is said, "Today if you hear His voice, do not harden your hearts as in the provocation.''
3:16 原来那听见而惹祂发怒的是谁？岂不是那些借着摩西从埃及出来的众人么？
For who provoked Him when they heard? Indeed was it not all who came out of Egypt by Moses?
3:17 神四十年之久，又厌烦了谁？岂不是那些犯罪，尸首倒在旷野的人么？
And with whom was He displeased for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose carcasses fell in the wilderness?
3:18 又向谁起誓说，他们必不得进入祂的安息？岂不是向那些不信从的人么？
And to whom did He swear that they should not enter into His rest, except to the disobedient?
3:19 这样我们看出，他们不能进入，是因为不信的缘故了。
And we see that they were not able to enter in because of unbelief.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 4 章
4:1 所以，我们应当畏惧，免得那进入祂安息的应许，虽然留给我们，你们中间却有人像是赶不上了。
Let us fear therefore, lest, a promise being left of entering into His rest, any one of you may seem to have come short of it.
4:2 因为有福音传给我们，像传给他们一样；只是所听见的话与他们无益，因为这话在听见的人里面，没有与信心调和。
For indeed we have had the good news announced to us, even as they also; but the word heard did not profit them, not being mixed together with faith in those
who heard.
4:3 但我们已经相信的人，却进入那安息，正如神所说，“我就在怒中起誓，他们绝不可进入我的安息。”其实造物之工，从创世以来已经完成了。
1146
For we who have believed enter into the rest, even as He has said, "As I swore in My wrath, They shall not enter into My rest!'' although the works of creation
were completed from the foundation of the world.
4:4 因为论到第七日，祂在某处这样说，“到第七日，神就歇了祂一切的工，”
For He has spoken somewhere concerning the seventh day thus, "And God rested on the seventh day from all His works.''
4:5 而在这里又说，“他们绝不可进入我的安息。”
And in this place again, "They shall not enter into My rest!''
4:6 这样，这安息既留下给一些人进入，而那先前有福音传给他们的人，因为不信从，不得进入，
Since therefore it remains that some should enter into it and those who formerly had the good news announced to them did not enter because of disobedience,
4:7 神就再指定一个日子，就是过了这么长的时间，在大卫书上所说的今日，正如祂前面所说的：“你们今日若听见祂的声音，就不可硬着心。”
He again designates a certain day, today, saying in David after so long a time, even as He has said before, "Today, if you hear His voice, do not harden your
hearts.''
4:8 若是约书亚已经使他们得了安息，此后神就不会提起别的日子了。
For if Joshua had brought them into rest, He would not have spoken concerning another day after these things.
4:9 这样，必有一安息日的安息，为神的子民存留。
So then there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God.
4:10 因为那进入祂安息的，也歇了自己的工，正如神歇了自己的工一样。
For he who has entered into His rest has himself also rested from his works, as God did from His own.
4:11 所以我们务必竭力进入那安息，免得有人随着那不信从的样子跌倒了。
Let us therefore be diligent to enter into that rest lest anyone fall after the same example of disobedience.
4:12 因为神的话是活的，是有功效的，比一切两刃的剑更锋利，能以刺入、甚至剖开魂与灵，骨节与骨髓，连心中的思念和主意都能辨明。
For the word of God is living and operative and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing even to the dividing of soul and spirit and of joints and marrow,
and able to discern the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
4:13 并且被造的，没有一个在祂面前不是显明的，反而万有在我们必须向祂交账的主眼前，都是赤露敞开的。
And there is no creature that is not manifest before Him, but all things are naked and laid bare to the eyes of Him to whom we are to give our account.
4:14 所以，我们既有一位经过了诸天，尊大的大祭司，就是神的儿子耶稣，便当坚守所承认的。
Having therefore a great High Priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast the confession.
4:15 因我们并非有一位不能同情我们软弱的大祭司，祂乃是在各方面受过试诱，与我们一样，只是没有罪。
For we do not have a High Priest who cannot be touched with the feeling of our weaknesses, but One who has been tempted in all respects like us, yet without
sin.
4:16 所以我们只管坦然无惧的来到施恩的宝座前，为要受怜悯，得恩典，作应时的帮助。
Let us therefore come forward with boldness to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find grace for timely help.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 5 章
5:1 凡从人间选取的大祭司，都是被设立替人办理关于神的事，为要献上礼物和为着罪的祭物。
For every high priest, being taken from among men, is established on behalf of men in the things pertaining to God that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for
sins.
5:2 他能体谅那无知和失迷的，因为他自己也为软弱所困；
He is able to exercise compassion toward the ignorant and erring since he also is encompassed with weakness;
5:3 因此，他怎样为百姓为着罪献祭，也应当照样为自己献祭。
And because of it, he ought, even as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins.
5:4 这大祭司的尊贵，不是人自取的，乃是人蒙神呼召所得的，像亚伦一样。
And no one takes the honor upon himself, but only as he is called by God, just as Aaron also was.
5:5 这样，基督也不是自取荣耀作大祭司，乃是那向祂说“你是我的儿子，我今日生了你”的，荣耀了祂；
So also Christ did not glorify Himself in becoming a High Priest, but it was He who said to Him, "You are My Son; this day have I begotten You'';
5:6 就如神在另一处又说，“你是照着麦基洗德的等次，永远为祭司。”
Even as also in another place He says, "You are a Priest forever according to the order of Melchisedec.''
5:7 基督在肉身的日子，强烈的哭号，流泪向那能救祂出死的，献上祈祷和恳求，因祂的虔诚，就蒙了垂听；
This One, in the days of His flesh, having offered up both petitions and supplications with strong crying and tears to Him who was able to save Him out of death
and having been heard because of His piety,
5:8 祂虽然为儿子，还是因所受的苦难学了顺从；
Even though He was a Son, learned obedience from the things which He suffered.
5:9 祂既得以成全，就对凡顺从祂的人，成了永远救恩的根源，
And having been perfected, He became to all those who obey Him the source of eternal salvation,
5:10 蒙神照着麦基洗德的等次，称为大祭司。
Being addressed by God as a High Priest according to the order of Melchisedec;
5:11 关于麦基洗德，我们有许多话要说，且是难以解明的，因为你们听觉迟钝。
Concerning whom we have much to say that is also difficult to interpret since you have become dull of hearing.
5:12 按时间说，你们该作教师；可是你们还需要有人将神谕言开端的要纲教导你们；并且成了那必须用奶，不能吃干粮的人。
For when because of the time you ought to be teachers, you have need again for someone to teach you what the rudiments of the beginning of the oracles of
God are and have become those who have need of milk and not of solid food.
5:13 凡只能享用奶的，对公义的话都是没有经验的，因为他是婴孩；
For everyone who partakes of milk is inexperienced in the word of righteousness, for he is an infant;
5:14 只有长成的人，才能吃干粮，他们的官能因习用而受了操练，就能分辨好坏了。
But solid food is for the full-grown, who because of practice have their faculties exercised for discriminating between both good and evil.
1147
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 6 章
6:1 所以，我们既离开了那论到基督之开端的话，就当竭力前进，达到完全、成熟，不再立根基，就是悔改脱开死行，信靠神，
Therefore leaving the word of the beginning of Christ, let us be brought on to maturity, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith
in God,
6:2 浸洗的教训，按手，死人的复活，以及永远的审判。
Of the teaching of baptisms and of the laying on of hands, of the resurrection of the dead and of eternal judgment.
6:3 神若准许，我们必如此行。
And this we will do if God permits.
6:4 因为那些曾经蒙了光照，尝过属天的恩赐，又有分于圣灵，
For it is impossible for those who have once been enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift and have become partakers of the Holy Spirit
6:5 并尝过神美善的话，以及来世的能力，
And have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come,
6:6 而偏离的人，不可能再重新悔改，为自己把神的儿子重钉十字架，明明的羞辱祂。
And yet have fallen away, to renew themselves again unto repentance, crucifying again for themselves the Son of God and putting Him to open shame.
6:7 就如田地，吸收了屡次下在其上的雨水，并且生产菜蔬，合乎耕种的人用，就从神得享祝福；
For the earth, which drinks the rain which often comes upon it and produces vegetation suitable to those for whose sake also it is cultivated, partakes of blessing
from God.
6:8 但若长出荆棘和蒺藜，就被废弃，近于咒诅，结局就是焚烧。
But if it brings forth thorns and thistles, it is disapproved and near a curse, whose end is to be burned.
6:9 然而，亲爱的，我们虽是这样说，却深信你们的光景强过这些，且都是联于救恩的。
But we are persuaded of better things concerning you, beloved, and things which belong to salvation, though we speak thus.
6:10 因为神并非不公义，竟忘记你们所作的工，和你们为着祂的名所显出的爱，就是先前供应圣徒，如今还是供应。
For God is not unrighteous, so as to forget your work and the love which you have shown toward His name in having ministered to the saints and in ministering
still.
6:11 只是我们切愿你们各人都显出同样的殷勤，以致对你们所盼望的有充分的确信，一直到底；
But we desire earnestly that each of you show the same diligence unto the full assurance of our hope until the end,
6:12 使你们不怠惰，反倒效法那些借着信和恒忍承受应许的人。
That you may not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and long-suffering are inheriting the promises.
6:13 神应许亚伯拉罕的时候，因为没有比自己更大的可以指着起誓，就指着自己起誓，说，
For God, when He made the promise to Abraham, since He could swear by no one greater, swore by Himself,
6:14 “保定的，论福，我必赐福给你；论繁增，我必使你繁增。”
Saying, "Surely blessing, I will bless you; and multiplying, I will multiply you.''
6:15 这样，亚伯拉罕既恒久忍耐，就得了所应许的。
And thus when Abraham had patiently endured, he obtained the promise.
6:16 人都是指着比自己大的起誓，而起誓乃是人各样争论的了结，作为保证。
For men swear by the greater, and for all disputes among them an oath is final for confirmation.
6:17 这样，神既愿意向那承受应许的人，格外显明祂的旨意是不更改的，就介入以起誓担保；
Therefore God, intending to show more abundantly to the heirs of the promise the unchangeableness of His counsel, interposed with an oath,
6:18 好藉这两件不更改的事，就是神在其中不能说谎的，叫我们这逃往避难所，持定摆在前头盼望的人，可以得着有力的鼓励；
In order that by two unchangeable things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we may have strong encouragement, we who have fled for refuge to lay hold
of the hope set before us,
6:19 我们有这盼望如同魂的锚，又牢靠又坚固，且通入幔内；
Which we have as an anchor of the soul, both secure and firm and which enters within the veil,
6:20 作先锋的耶稣，既照着麦基洗德的等次，成了永远的大祭司，就为我们进入幔内。
Where the Forerunner, Jesus, has entered for us, having become forever a High Priest according to the order of Melchisedec.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 7 章
7:1 这麦基洗德，撒冷王，至高神的祭司，就是那当亚伯拉罕杀败诸王回来的时候，迎接他，并给他祝福的。
For this Melchisedec, king of Salem, priest of the Most High God, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him,
7:2 亚伯拉罕也将所得的一切，分了十分之一给他。首先，他的名字翻出来是公义王；其次，他又是撒冷王，就是平安王。
To whom also Abraham apportioned a tenth part of all; first being interpreted king of righteousness, and then also king of Salem, which is king of peace;
7:3 他无父，无母，无族谱，既无时日之始，也无生命之终，乃与神的儿子相似，是永久为祭司的。
Being without father, without mother, without genealogy; having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but likened to the Son of God, abides a priest
perpetually.
7:4 你们要想想，先祖亚伯拉罕把上等掳物中的十分之一给他，这人是何等尊大！
And consider how great this one was, to whom the patriarch Abraham gave a tenth of the choice spoils.
7:5 那些领受祭司职任的利未子孙，奉命照着律法从百姓，就是从他们的弟兄，收取十分之一，尽管他们的弟兄是从亚伯拉罕腰中出来的；
And they of the sons of Levi, who received the priestly service, have a commandment to take tithes from the people according to the law, that is, from their
brothers, though they have come forth from the loins of Abraham.
7:6 但那不与他们同谱系的，倒收取亚伯拉罕的十分之一，并为那蒙受应许的祝福。
But he whose genealogy is not counted from them has taken tithes from Abraham and has blessed him who has the promises.
1148
7:7 向来都是卑小的蒙尊优的祝福，这是一无可驳的。
But without any dispute the lesser is blessed by the greater.
7:8 在这里，收取十分之一的，是必死的人；在那里，却是那被证实为活着的。
And here men, who die, receive tithes; but there, one of whom it is testified that he lives.
7:9 并且可以这样说，那收取十分之一的利未，也是借着亚伯拉罕纳了十分之一；
And, so to speak, through Abraham, Levi also, he who receives tithes, has been made to pay tithes,
7:10 因为麦基洗德迎接亚伯拉罕的时候，利未还在他祖宗的腰中。
For he was still in the loins of his father when Melchisedec met him.
7:11 这样，借着利未人的祭司职分，若真能使人得完全，（百姓原是根据这职分领受了律法，）又何需另外兴起一位祭司，照着麦基洗德的等次，不照着
亚伦的等次来称谓？
If indeed then perfection were through the Levitical priesthood (for under it the people have received the law), what need was there still that a different Priest
should arise according to the order of Melchisedec and that He should not be said to be according to the order of Aaron?
7:12 祭司的职分既已更换，律法也必须更换。
For since the priesthood is transferred, of necessity there comes into being a transfer of law also.
7:13 因为这些话所说到的人，原有分于别的支派，那支派里没有一人伺候过祭坛。
For He of whom these things are said belongs to a different tribe, from which no one has attended to the altar.
7:14 我们的主明显是从犹大支派出来的；论到这支派，摩西并没有讲到祭司的事。
For it is evident that our Lord has risen out of Judah, concerning which tribe Moses spoke nothing about priests.
7:15 既然照麦基洗德的样式，兴起一位不同的祭司来，我们的话就更是显然的了；
And it is still more abundantly evident since it is according to the likeness of Melchisedec that a different Priest arises,
7:16 祂成了祭司，不是照着属肉之诫命的律法，乃是照着不能毁坏之生命的大能；
Who has been appointed not according to the law of a fleshy commandment but according to the power of an indestructible life.
7:17 因为有为祂作见证的说，“你是照着麦基洗德的等次，永远为祭司。”
For it is testified, "You are a Priest forever according to the order of Melchisedec.''
7:18 一面是先前的诫命，因其软弱和无益，而被废掉，
For there is, on the one hand, the setting aside of the preceding commandment because of its weakness and unprofitableness
7:19 （律法原来一无所成，）另一面却在其上引进更美的盼望，藉此我们可以亲近神。
(For the law perfected nothing), and, on the other hand, the bringing in thereupon of a better hope, through which we draw near to God.
7:20 再者，耶稣为祭司，既不是不起誓立的，
And inasmuch as He was not made a Priest without the taking of an oath
7:21 （那些人为祭司，原不是起誓立的，耶稣却是起誓立的，是借着那对祂说，“主起了誓绝不后悔，你是永远为祭司”的，）
(For they are appointed priests without the taking of an oath, but He, with the taking of an oath by Him who said to Him, "The Lord has sworn and will not regret it,
You are a Priest forever''),
7:22 祂就成了更美之约的保证。
By so much Jesus has also become the surety of a better covenant.
7:23 那些为祭司的，人数众多，是因为有死拦阻，不能长久；
And they are appointed priests many in number because death prevents them from continuing;
7:24 但耶稣既是永远长存的，祂就有不能更换的祭司职分。
But He, because He abides forever, has His priesthood unalterable.
7:25 所以，那借着祂来到神面前的人，祂都能拯救到底；因为祂是长远活着，为他们代求。
Hence also He is able to save to the uttermost those who come forward to God through Him, since He lives always to intercede for them.
7:26 像这样圣而无邪恶、无玷污、与罪人分别，并且高过诸天的大祭司，原是与我们合宜的；
For such a High Priest was also fitting to us, holy, guileless, undefiled, separated from sinners and having become higher than the heavens,
7:27 祂不像那些大祭司，每天必须先为自己的罪，再为百姓的罪献上祭物，因为祂献上自己，就把这事一次永远的作成了。
Who does not have daily need, as the high priests do, to offer up sacrifices first for his own sins and then for those of the people; for this He did once for all when
He offered up Himself.
7:28 律法本是立软弱的人为大祭司，但在律法以后所起誓的话，却是立儿子为大祭司，乃是成全直到永远的。
For the law establishes men as high priests who have weakness, but the word of the oath, which was after the law, establishes the Son, perfected forever.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 8 章
8:1 我们所讲之事的要点，就是我们有这样的大祭司，祂已经坐在诸天之上至尊至大者宝座的右边，
Now in the things which are being said the chief point is this: We have such a High Priest, who sat down on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the
heavens,
8:2 作了圣所，就是真帐幕的执事；这帐幕是主所支的，不是人所支的。
A Minister of the holy places, even of the true tabernacle, which the Lord pitched, not man.
8:3 凡大祭司都是为献礼物和祭物设立的，所以这一位也必须有所献的。
For every high priest is established for the offering of both gifts and sacrifices; hence it is necessary that this One also have something which He may offer.
8:4 因此祂若在地上，必不得作祭司，因为已经有照律法献礼物的祭司；
Now then if He were on earth, He would not be a Priest at all, there being those who offer the gifts according to the law,
8:5 他们的事奉，乃是天上事物的样本和影儿，正如摩西将要完成帐幕的时候，蒙神指示他说，“你要谨慎，照着在山上所指示你的模型，作各样的物
件。”
Who serve the example and shadow of the heavenly things, even as Moses was divinely instructed when he was about to complete the tabernacle; for, "See,'' He
said, "that you make all things according to the pattern that was shown to you in the mountain.''
8:6 但如今耶稣已经得着更超特的职任，正如祂也是更美之约的中保；这约是凭更美的应许立定为法的。
1149
But now He has obtained a more excellent ministry inasmuch as He is also the Mediator of a better covenant, which has been enacted upon better promises.
8:7 原来那第一约若没有瑕疵，就没有寻求第二约的必要了。
For if that first covenant had been faultless, no place would have been sought for a second.
8:8 但神既找出祂百姓的瑕疵，就说，“看哪，日子将到，主说，我要与以色列家和犹大家，立定新约，
For finding fault with them He says, "Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, and I will consummate a new covenant upon the house of Israel and upon the
house of Judah,
8:9 不是照着我拉他们祖宗的手，领他们出埃及地的日子，与他们所立的约；因为他们没有恒守我的约，我也不理他们；这是主说的。
Not according to the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by their hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, because they did
not continue in My covenant, and I disregarded them, says the Lord.
8:10 主又说，因为这是那些日子以后，我要与以色列家所立的约：我要将我的律法赐在他们心思里，并且将这些律法写在他们心上；我要作他们的神，他
们要作我的子民。
For this is the covenant which I will covenant with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord: I will impart My laws into their mind, and on their hearts I will
inscribe them; and I will be God to them, and they will be a people to Me.
8:11 他们各人绝不用教导自己同国之民，各人也绝不用教导自己的弟兄，说，你该认识主；因为他们从最小的到至大的，都必认识我；
And they shall by no means each teach his fellow citizen and each his brother, saying, Know the Lord; for all will know Me from the little one to the great one
among them.
8:12 因为我要宽恕他们的不义，绝不再记念他们的罪。”
For I will be propitious to their unrighteousnesses, and their sins I shall by no means remember anymore.''
8:13 既说新约，就以第一约为旧了。但那渐渐陈旧并衰老的，就快要消逝了。
In saying, A new covenant, He has made the first old. But that which is becoming old and growing decrepit is near to disappearing.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 9 章
9:1 这样，第一约的确有敬拜的章则，和属世界的圣幕。
Now then the first covenant also had ordinances of service, and its sanctuary was of this world.
9:2 因为有预备好的帐幕，头一层叫作圣所，里面有灯台、桌子和陈设饼；
For a tabernacle was prepared, the first, in which were the lampstand and the table and the loaves that were set forth, which is called the Holy Place;
9:3 第二幔子后，还有一层帐幕，叫作至圣所，
And after the second veil, a tabernacle, which is called the Holy of Holies,
9:4 有金香坛，和四面包金的约柜，柜里有盛吗哪的金罐、和亚伦发过芽的杖、并两块约版；
Having a golden altar and the ark of the covenant covered about everywhere with gold, in which were the golden pot that had the manna and Aaron's rod that
budded and the tablets of the covenant,
9:5 柜上面有荣耀的基路伯覆荫着平息处；关于这几件，现在不能一一细说。
And above it cherubim of glory overshadowing the propitiation place, concerning which it is not now the time to speak in detail.
9:6 这些物件都这样预备好了，众祭司就常常进入头一层帐幕，完成敬拜；
Now these things having been thus prepared, into the first tabernacle the priests enter continually, accomplishing their worship;
9:7 至于第二层帐幕，只有大祭司一年一次独自进去，没有不带着血，为自己和百姓误犯的罪献上的；
But into the second, only the high priest enters, once a year and not without blood, which he offers for himself and for the sins of ignorance of the people,
9:8 圣灵如此指明，当头一层帐幕仍然存立的时候，至圣所的路还未显明；
The Holy Spirit thus making this clear, that the way of the Holy of Holies has not yet been manifested while the first tabernacle still has its standing,
9:9 那头一层帐幕作现今时期的一个象征，按这象征所献的礼物和祭物，就着良心说，都不能叫敬拜的人得以完全；
Which is a figure for the present time. According to this tabernacle both gifts and sacrifices are offered, which are unable to perfect, according to conscience, him
who worships,
9:10 这些不过是在于饮食和各样的浸洗，都是属肉体的章则，制定到更正的时期。
Consisting only of foods and drinks and various washings, being ordinances of the flesh, imposed until the time of setting things right.
9:11 但基督已经来到，作了那已经实现之美事的大祭司，经过那更大、更全备的帐幕，不是人手所造的，就是不属这受造世界的；
But Christ, having come as a High Priest of the good things that have come into being, through the greater and more perfect tabernacle not made by hands, that
is, not of this creation,
9:12 并且不是借着山羊和牛犊的血，乃是借着祂自己的血，一次永远的进入至圣所，便得到了永远的救赎。
And not through the blood of goats and calves but through His own blood, entered once for all into the Holy of Holies, obtaining an eternal redemption.
9:13 若山羊和公牛的血，并母牛犊的灰，洒在污秽的人身上，尚且使人圣别，以致人的肉身得着洁净，
For if the blood of goats and bulls and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling those who are defiled sanctify to the purity of the flesh,
9:14 何况基督借着永远的灵，将自己无瑕无疵的献给神，祂的血岂不更洁净我们的良心，使其脱离死行，叫我们事奉活神么？
How much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered Himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve
the living God?
9:15 所以，祂作了新约的中保，既然受死，赎了人在第一约之下的过犯，便叫蒙召之人得着所应许永远的产业。
And because of this He is the Mediator of a new covenant, so that, death having taken place for redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant, those
who have been called might receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
9:16 凡有遗命，立遗命者的死必须证实出来；
For where there is a testament, the death of him who made the testament must of necessity be established.
9:17 因为留遗命的人死了，遗命才得确定；立遗命的人还活着的时候，遗命是没有效力的。
For a testament is confirmed in the case of the dead, since it never has force when he who made the testament is living.
9:18 所以第一约也不是不用血创立的。
Hence neither was the first covenant initiated without blood;
9:19 因为各条诫命既由摩西照着律法，向众百姓讲过了，他就拿牛犊和山羊的血，用水和朱红色绒并牛膝草，洒在那约书上，并众百姓身上，说，
1150
For when every commandment according to the law had been spoken by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of the calves and the goats, with water and
scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the scroll of the covenant itself and all the people,
9:20 “这就是神与你们所立之约的血。”
Saying, "This is the blood of the covenant which God has commanded to you.''
9:21 他又照样把血洒在帐幕和一切敬拜用的器皿上。
And both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the service he sprinkled in like manner with the blood.
9:22 按着律法，凡物差不多都是用血洁净的，没有流血，就没有赦罪。
And almost all things are purified by blood according to the law, and without shedding of blood there is no forgiveness.
9:23 所以，诸天上之物的样本，必须用这些祭物去洁净；但那天上之物的本身，必须用比这些更美的祭物去洁净。
It was necessary therefore for the examples of the things in the heavens to be purified by these, but the heavenly things themselves, by better sacrifices than
these.
9:24 因为基督并不是进入人手所造的圣所，那不过是真圣所的复本，乃是进入了天的本身，如今为我们显在神面前；
For Christ did not enter into a holy place made by hands, a figure of the true, but into heaven itself, to appear now before the face of God for us;
9:25 祂也不是多次将自己献上，像那大祭司每年带着牛羊的血进入至圣所；
Nor in order that He might offer Himself often, just as the high priest enters into the Holy of Holies year by year by the blood of other creatures;
9:26 如果这样，从创世以来，祂就必须多次受苦了；但如今祂在诸世代的终结显明了一次，好借着献上自己为祭，把罪除掉。
Since then He would have had to suffer often since the foundation of the world. But now once at the consummation of the ages He has been manifested for the
putting away of sin through the sacrifice of Himself.
9:27 按着定命，人人都有一死，死后且有审判；
And inasmuch as it is reserved for men to die once, and after this comes judgment,
9:28 基督也是这样，既一次被献，担当了多人的罪，将来还要向那热切等待祂的人第二次显现，并与罪无关，乃为拯救他们。
So Christ also, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time to those who eagerly await Him, apart from sin, unto salvation.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 10 章
10:1 律法有要来美事的影儿，没有本物的形像，总不能借着每年不断献上的同样祭物，叫那些进前来的人得到完全。
For the law, having a shadow of the good things to come, not the image itself of the things, can never by the same sacrifices year by year, which they offer
continually, perfect those who draw near.
10:2 不然，敬拜的人既一次得了洁净，良心不再觉得有罪，献祭的事岂不就已停止了么？
Otherwise would they not have ceased to be offered, because those worshipping, having once been purified, would have no longer had the consciousness of
sins?
10:3 但那些祭物使人每年想起罪来；
But in those sacrifices there is a bringing to mind of sins year by year;
10:4 因为公牛和山羊的血是不能除罪的。
For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins.
10:5 所以基督到世上来的时候，就说，“祭物和供物是你不愿要的，你却为我预备了身体；
Therefore, coming into the world, He says, "Sacrifice and offering You did not desire, but a body You have prepared for Me.
10:6 燔祭和赎罪祭是你不喜悦的；
In burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin You did not delight.
10:7 于是我说，看哪，我来了，神阿，是要实行你的旨意。（我的事经卷上已经记载了。）”
Then I said, Behold, I have come (in the roll of the book it is written concerning Me) to do Your will, O God.''
10:8 以上说，“祭物和供物，燔祭和赎罪祭，是你不愿要的，也是你不喜悦的。”（这些都是按着律法献的。）
Saying above, "Sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin You did not desire nor delight in'' (which are offered according to the law),
10:9 后来又说，“看哪，我来了，是要实行你的旨意。”可见祂除去那先有的，为要立定那后来的；
He then has said, "Behold, I have come to do Your will.'' He takes away the first that He may establish the second,
10:10 我们凭这旨意，藉耶稣基督一次永远的献上身体，就得以圣别。
By which will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
10:11 再者，凡祭司都是天天站着供职，屡次献上同样永不能除罪的祭物。
And every priest stands daily, ministering and offering often the same sacrifices, which can never remove sins;
10:12 惟独这一位既为罪一次献上祭物，就永久在神的右边坐下了；
But this One, having offered one sacrifice for sins, sat down forever on the right hand of God,
10:13 从此等候祂的仇敌，放在祂的脚下作脚凳。
Henceforth waiting until His enemies are made the footstool for His feet.
10:14 因为祂一次献祭，便叫那些得以圣别的人永久完全。
For by one offering He has perfected forever those who are being sanctified.
10:15 圣灵也对我们作见证，因为祂说过，
And the Holy Spirit also testifies to us, for after having said,
10:16 “主说，这是那些日子以后，我要与他们所立的约：我要将我的律法赐在他们心里，并且将这些律法写在他们心思里。”
"This is the covenant which I will covenant with them after those days, says the Lord: I will impart My laws upon their hearts, and upon their mind I will inscribe
them,''
10:17 以后又说，“我绝不再记念他们的罪和不法。”
He then says, "And their sins and their lawlessnesses I shall by no means remember anymore.''
10:18 这些罪既都蒙了赦免，就不用再为罪献祭了。
Now where forgiveness of these is, there is no longer an offering for sin.
10:19 弟兄们，我们既因耶稣的血，得以坦然进入至圣所，
1151
Having therefore, brothers, boldness for entering the Holy of Holies in the blood of Jesus,
10:20 是借着祂给我们开创了一条又新又活的路，从幔子经过，这幔子就是祂的肉体，
Which entrance He initiated for us as a new and living way through the veil, that is, His flesh,
10:21 又有一位尊大的祭司治理神的家，
And having a great Priest over the house of God,
10:22 并且在心一面，我们已经被基督的血洒过，脱开了邪恶的良心，在身体一面，也已经用清水洗净了，就当存着真诚的心，以十分确信的信，前来进
入至圣所；
Let us come forward to the Holy of Holies with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and having our bodies
washed with pure water.
10:23 又当坚守我们所承认的盼望，不至摇动，因为那应许我们的是信实的；
Let us hold fast the confession of our hope unwavering, for He who has promised is faithful;
10:24 且当彼此相顾，激发爱心，勉励行善；
And let us consider one another so as to incite one another to love and good works,
10:25 不可放弃我们自己的聚集，好像有些人习惯了一样，倒要彼此劝勉；既看见那日子临近，就更当如此。
Not abandoning our own assembling together, as the custom with some is, but exhorting one another; and so much the more as you see the day drawing near.
10:26 因为我们认识了真理之后，还故意犯罪，为着罪的牛羊祭物是不再有的了；
For when we sin willfully after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice of bulls and goats for sins,
10:27 惟有恐惧等候审判、和那将要吞灭众敌人的烈火。
But a certain fearful expectation of judgment and fervor of fire, which is to consume the adversaries.
10:28 任何人干犯摩西的律法，凭两三个见证人，尚且不得怜恤而死，
Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses dies without compassion on the testimony of two or three witnesses.
10:29 何况那践踏神的儿子，将他藉以成圣的立约之血当作俗物，又亵慢恩典之灵的，你们想，他该受怎样更重的刑罚？
By how much do you think he will be thought worthy of worse punishment who has trampled underfoot the Son of God and has considered the blood of the
covenant by which he was sanctified a common thing and has insulted the Spirit of grace?
10:30 因为我们知道谁曾说，“伸冤在我，我必报应。”又说，“主要审判祂的百姓。”
For we know Him who said, "Vengeance is Mine; I will repay''; and again, "The Lord will judge His people.''
10:31 落在活神的手里是可怕的。
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
10:32 然而你们要回想往日，那时你们蒙了光照，就忍受了各样苦难中的大争战；
But call to mind the former days, in which, having been enlightened, you endured a great conflict of sufferings;
10:33 一面被辱骂，遭患难，成了给众人观看的一台戏；一面作了那些受如此对待之人的同伴。
On one hand, being made a spectacle both in reproaches and in afflictions, and on the other, having become partakers with those who are treated the same.
10:34 因为你们同情了那些被捆锁的人，并且你们的家业被抢夺，你们也欢喜接受，知道自己有更美长存的家业。
For you both sympathized with those in bonds and accepted with joy the plundering of your possessions, knowing that you yourselves have a better possession
and one that abides.
10:35 所以不可丢弃你们的胆量；这胆量是会得大赏赐的。
Do not cast away therefore your boldness, which has great reward.
10:36 你们所需要的乃是忍耐，使你们行完了神的旨意，就可以得着所应许的。
For you have need of endurance in order that, having done the will of God, you may obtain the promise.
10:37 “因为还有一点点时候，那要来的就来，并不迟延。
"For in yet a very little while the Coming One will come and will not delay.
10:38 只是我的义人必本于信活着；他若退缩，我的心就不喜悦他。”
But My righteous one shall live by faith; and if he shrinks back, My soul does not delight in him.''
10:39 我们却不是退缩以致遭毁坏的人，乃是有信心以致得着魂的人。
But we are not of those who shrink back to ruin but of them who have faith to the gaining of the soul.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 11 章
11:1 信就是所望之事的质实，是未见之事的确证。
Now faith is the substantiation of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen.
11:2 古人在这信上得了美好的见证。
For in this the elders have obtained a good testimony.
11:3 我们因着信，知道宇宙是凭神的话结构起来的；这样，所看见的并不是从显然之物而成的。
By faith we understand that the universe has been framed by the word of God, so that what is seen has not come into being out of things which appear.
11:4 亚伯因着信献祭给神，比该隐所献的更美，藉此便得了称许为义的见证，就是神指着他的礼物所作的见证；他虽然死了，却借着这信仍旧说话。
By faith Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which he obtained the testimony that he was righteous, God testifying to his gifts; and
through faith, though he has died, he still speaks.
11:5 以诺因着信被接去，不至于见死，人也找不着他，因为神把他接去了；原来他被接去以前，已经得了蒙神喜悦的见证。
By faith Enoch was translated so that he should not see death; and he was not found, because God had translated him. For before his translation he obtained the
testimony that he had been well pleasing to God.
11:6 人非有信，就不能得神的喜悦；因为到神面前来的人，必须信有神，且信祂赏赐那寻求祂的人。
But without faith it is impossible to be well pleasing to Him, for he who comes forward to God must believe that He is and that He is a rewarder of those who
diligently seek Him.
11:7 挪亚因着信，既蒙神指示他未见的事，就为虔敬所动，预备了一只方舟，使他全家得救，藉此就定了那世界的罪，并且承受了那照着信而得的义。
1152
By faith Noah, having been divinely instructed concerning things not yet seen and being moved by pious fear, prepared an ark for the salvation of his house,
through which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is according to faith.
11:8 亚伯拉罕因着信，蒙召的时候，就遵命出去，往将来要得为业的地方去；他出去了，还不知道往那里去。
By faith Abraham, being called, obeyed to go out unto a place which he was to receive as an inheritance; and he went out, not knowing where he was going.
11:9 他因着信，在应许之地作客，好像在异地，与承受同样应许的以撒、雅各一同居住在帐棚里；
By faith he dwelt as a foreigner in the land of promise as in a foreign land, making his home in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the fellow heirs of the same promise;
11:10 因为他等候那座有根基的城，其设计者并建筑者乃是神。
For he eagerly waited for the city which has the foundations, whose Architect and Builder is God.
11:11 因着信，连撒拉自己，即使过了年龄，还得了能力，怀孕生子，因她认为那应许她的是信实的。
By faith also Sarah herself received power to conceive seed, even beyond the season of age, since she considered Him faithful who promised.
11:12 所以从一个仿佛已死的人，生出子孙来，如同天上的星那样众多，海边的沙那样无数。
Therefore also there were born of one, and that of him who had become dead, as many as even the stars of heaven in multitude and as the sand by the
seashore innumerable.
11:13 这些人都是存着信心死的，并没有得着所应许的，却从远处望见，且欢喜迎接，又承认自己在地上是客旅，是寄居的。
All these died in faith, not receiving the promises but seeing them from afar and joyfully greeting them and confessing that they were strangers and sojourners on
the earth.
11:14 说这样话的人，是显明自己在寻找一个家乡。
For those who say such things make it manifest that they seek after a country of their own.
11:15 他们若真是想念着所离开的家乡，还有折回的机会；
And if indeed they continued to remember that country from which they went out, they would have had opportunity to return;
11:16 他们却羡慕一个更美、属天的家乡；所以神称为他们的神，并不以为耻，因为祂已经给他们预备了一座城。
But as it is, they long after a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God, for He has prepared a city for
them.
11:17 亚伯拉罕因着信，被试验的时候，就把以撒献上；这正是那欢喜领受应许的，将自己独生的儿子献上。
By faith Abraham, being tested, offered up Isaac; indeed he who gladly received the promises was offering up his only begotten,
11:18 论到这儿子，曾有话说，“从以撒生的，才要称为你的后裔。”
Of whom it was said, "In Isaac shall your seed be called'';
11:19 他算定神甚至能叫人从死人中复活；就表样说，他也实在从死人中得回了他的儿子。
Counting that God was able to raise men even from the dead, from which he also received him back in figure.
11:20 以撒因着信，指着要来的事，给雅各、以扫祝福。
By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, even concerning things to come.
11:21 雅各因着信，临死的时候，给约瑟的两个儿子各自祝福，并且扶着杖头敬拜神。
By faith Jacob, while he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph and worshipped God, while leaning on the top of his staff.
11:22 约瑟因着信，临终的时候，提到以色列子孙出埃及的事，并为自己的骸骨留下遗嘱。
By faith Joseph, nearing his end, made mention of the exodus of the sons of Israel and gave orders concerning his bones.
11:23 摩西生下来的时候，他的父母因见他是个俊美的孩子，就因着信，把他藏了三个月，并不怕王命。
By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents because they saw that the child was lovely, and they did not fear the king's
decree.
11:24 摩西因着信，长大了就拒绝称为法老女儿之子；
By faith Moses, when he had grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
11:25 他宁可选择和神的百姓同受苦害，也不愿有罪的短暂享受；
Choosing rather to be ill treated with the people of God than to have the temporary enjoyment of sin,
11:26 他算为基督受的凌辱，比埃及的财物更宝贵，因他望断以及于那赏赐。
Considering the reproach of the Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt; for he looked away to the reward.
11:27 他因着信，离开埃及，不怕王怒；因他坚定不移，如同看见那不能看见的主；
By faith he left Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he persevered as one seeing the unseen One.
11:28 他因着信，就立了逾越节并涂血的事，免得那灭长子的临及以色列人。
By faith he instituted the Passover and the pouring out of the blood so that the one destroying the firstborn would not touch them.
11:29 他们因着信，过红海如过干地；埃及人试着要过去，就被吞灭了。
By faith they passed through the Red Sea as through dry land, in which the Egyptians, while making the attempt, were swallowed up.
11:30 因着信，耶利哥的城墙被围绕七日，就倒塌了。
By faith the walls of Jericho fell, having been encircled for a period of seven days.
11:31 妓女喇合因着信，和和平平的接待探子，就不与那些不信从的人一同灭亡。
By faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with those who were disobedient, since she had received the spies with peace.
11:32 此外，我还要再说什么？若要一一细说基甸、巴拉、参孙、耶弗他、大卫、撒母耳和众申言者的事，时间就不够我用了。
And what more shall I say? For time will fail me if I tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, of David and Samuel and the prophets,
11:33 他们借着信，制伏了列国，行了公义，得了应许，堵了狮子的口，
Who through faith overcame kingdoms, worked righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions,
11:34 灭了烈火的猛势，脱了刀剑的锋刃，软弱得着加力，争战显出大能，打退外邦的军队。
Quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, were made strong in weakness, became mighty in war, routed the armies of foreigners.
11:35 有妇人得自己的死人复活；另有人受严刑至死，不肯接受释放，为要得着更美的复活；
Women received their dead by resurrection; and others were tortured to death, not accepting deliverance, in order that they might obtain a better resurrection.
11:36 又另有人受了戏弄和鞭打，甚至捆锁和监禁的试炼；
And still others underwent the trial of mockings and scourgings, even, moreover, of bonds and imprisonment.
11:37 他们被石头打死，被锯锯死，受到试探，被刀杀死；披着绵羊山羊的皮各处奔走，受穷乏，受患难，受苦害；
1153
They were stoned, they were sawn in two, they were tempted, they died by the murder of the sword, they wandered about in sheepskins, in goatskins, destitute,
afflicted, ill treated
11:38 在旷野、山岭、山洞、地穴，飘流无定，是世界不配有的。
(Of whom the world was not worthy), wandering over deserts and mountains and in caves and holes of the earth.
11:39 这些人都借着信得了美好的见证，却没有得着所应许的；
And these all, having obtained a good testimony through their faith, did not obtain the promise,
11:40 因为神为我们预备了更美的事，叫他们若没有我们，就不能完全。
Because God has provided something better for us, so that apart from us they would not be made perfect.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 12 章
12:1 所以，我们既有这许多的见证人，如同云彩围着我们，就当脱去各样的重担，和容易缠累我们的罪，凭着忍耐奔那摆在我们前头的赛程，
Therefore let us also, having so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, put away every encumbrance and the sin which so easily entangles us and run with
endurance the race which is set before us,
12:2 望断以及于耶稣，就是我们信心的创始者与成终者；祂为那摆在前面的喜乐，就轻看羞辱，忍受了十字架，便坐在神宝座的右边。
Looking away unto Jesus, the Author and Perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before Him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down on the
right hand of the throne of God.
12:3 那忍受罪人这样顶撞自己的，你们要考量比较，免得疲倦灰心。
For compare Him who has endured such contradiction by sinners against Himself, so that you may not grow weary, fainting in your souls.
12:4 你们与罪争斗，还没有抵挡到流血；
You have not yet resisted unto blood, struggling against sin,
12:5 你们竟全然忘了那劝勉的话，就是对你们如同对儿子所讲论的，说，“我儿，你不可轻看主的管教，被祂责备的时候，也不可灰心；
And you have completely forgotten the exhortation which reasons with you as with sons, "My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor faint when
reproved by Him;
12:6 因为主所爱的，祂必管教，又鞭打凡所收纳的儿子。”
For whom the Lord loves He disciplines, and He scourges every son whom He receives.''
12:7 为了受管教，你们要忍受。神待你们如同待儿子；那有儿子是父亲不管教的？
It is for discipline that you endure; God deals with you as with sons. For what son is there whom the father does not discipline?
12:8 只是你们若不受众子所共受的管教，就是私生子，不是儿子了。
But if you are without discipline, of which all sons have become partakers, then you are illegitimate and not sons.
12:9 再者，我们曾有肉身的父管教我们，我们尚且敬重他们，何况万灵的父，我们岂不更当服从祂而得活着么？
Furthermore we have had the fathers of our flesh as discipliners and we respected them; shall we not much more be in subjection to the Father of spirits and live?
12:10 肉身的父是在短暂的日子里，照自己以为好的管教我们，惟有万灵的父管教我们，是为了我们的益处，使我们有分于祂的圣别。
For they disciplined for a few days as it seemed good to them; but He, for what is profitable that we might partake of His holiness.
12:11 一切的管教，当时固然不觉得喜乐，反觉得愁苦；后来却给那藉此受过操练的人，结出平安的义果。
Now no discipline at the present time seems to be a matter of joy, but of grief; but afterward it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been
exercised by it.
12:12 所以你们要把下垂的手，瘫弱的膝挺起来；
Therefore set straight the hands which hang down and the paralyzed knees,
12:13 也要为自己的脚把路径修直了，使瘸子不至脱臼，反得医治。
And make straight paths for your feet, that what is lame may not be put out of joint but rather may be healed.
12:14 你们要追求与众人和睦，并要追求圣别，非圣别没有人能见主；
Pursue peace with all men and sanctification, without which no one will see the Lord;
12:15 要监察，免得有人坠落离开神的恩典；免得有苦根长起来缠扰你们，许多人便因此沾染污秽；
Looking carefully lest anyone fall away from the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and through this many be defiled;
12:16 免得有淫乱的、或贪恋世俗如以扫的，他因一口食物把自己长子的名分卖了。
Lest there be any fornicator or profane person like Esau, who for one meal gave up his own birthright.
12:17 后来他也想要承受祝福，竟被拒绝；虽然带着泪苦求，还是没有反悔的余地，这是你们知道的。
For you know that also afterward, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected; for he found no place for repentance, even though he sought it with
tears.
12:18 你们原不是来到那可摸、有火烧着的山，和黑暗、幽暗、旋风、
For you have not come forward to a mountain which could be touched and which was set on fire, and to darkness and gloom and whirlwind,
12:19 角声、与说话的声音那里；那些听见这声音的，都恳求不要再对他们多说话；
And to the sound of a trumpet and to the voice of words, because of which those who heard entreated that no further word be spoken to them;
12:20 因为他们担当不起所嘱咐他们的话：“即使是走兽摸了这山，也要用石头打死。”
For they could not bear that which was being commanded: "If even a beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned.''
12:21 并且所显现的是如此可怕，甚至摩西说，“我甚是恐惧战兢。”
And so fearful was the sight, Moses said, "I am full of fear and trembling.''
12:22 但你们乃是来到锡安山，来到活神的城，属天的耶路撒冷，来到千万天使整体的聚集，
But you have come forward to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem; and to myriads of angels, to the universal gathering;
12:23 来到名字记录在诸天之上众长子的召会，来到审判众人的神这里，来到被成全之义人的灵这里，
And to the church of the firstborn, who have been enrolled in the heavens; and to God, the Judge of all; and to the spirits of righteous men who have been made
perfect;
12:24 来到新约的中保耶稣这里，并来到所洒的血这里，这血所说的比亚伯的血所说的更美。
And to Jesus, the Mediator of a new covenant; and to the blood of sprinkling, which speaks something better than that of Abel.
1154
12:25 你们要谨慎，不可弃绝那说话的，因为那些弃绝那在地上警戒他们者的，尚且不能逃罪，何况我们这转离那从诸天之上警戒我们者的？
See that you do not refuse Him who speaks, for if those did not escape who refused Him who warned them upon the earth, much more we shall not escape who
turn away from Him who warns from heaven,
12:26 当时祂的声音震动了地；但如今祂应许说，“再一次我不单要震动地，还要震动天。”
Whose voice at that time shook the earth but now has promised, saying, "Yet once more I will shake not only the earth but also heaven.''
12:27 这“再一次，”指明那被震动的，就是受造之物，都要挪去，使那不被震动的常存。
And this word, "Yet once more,'' shows clearly the removal of the things being shaken as being of things having been made, that the things which are not shaken
may remain.
12:28 所以我们既领受了不能震动的国，就当接受恩典，藉此得以照神所喜悦的，以虔诚和畏惧事奉神；
Therefore receiving an unshakable kingdom, let us have grace, through which we may serve God well-pleasingly with piety and fear;
12:29 因为我们的神乃是烈火。
For our God is also a consuming fire.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 13 章
13:1 弟兄相爱要持久。
Let brotherly love continue.
13:2 不可忘记用爱接待客旅；因为有人藉此不知不觉的款待了天使。
Do not forget hospitality, for through this some, without knowing it, have entertained angels.
13:3 你们要顾念被捆绑的人，好像与他们同受捆绑；也要顾念遭苦害的人，因为自己也在肉身之内。
Remember those who are imprisoned as bound with them, those who are ill treated as being yourselves also likewise treated in body.
13:4 婚姻当在众人中间受尊重，床也不可污秽，因为淫乱和奸淫的人，神必审判。
Let marriage be held in honor among all, and the bed undefiled; for fornicators and adulterers God will judge.
13:5 你们生活为人不可贪爱钱财，要以现有的为足；因为主曾说，“我绝不撇下你，也绝不丢弃你。”
Let your way of life be without the love of money, being satisfied with the things which are at hand; for He Himself has said, "I shall by no means give you up,
neither by any means shall I abandon you'';
13:6 所以我们放胆说，“主是帮助我的，我必不惧怕；人能把我怎么样？”
So that being of good courage, we say, "The Lord is my Helper, and I will not fear. What shall man do to me?''
13:7 要记念那些带领你们，对你们讲过神话语的人，要效法他们的信心，留心看他们为人的结局。
Remember the ones leading you, who have spoken to you the word of God; and considering the issue of their manner of life, imitate their faith.
13:8 耶稣基督，昨日、今日、直到永远，是一样的。
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today, yes, even forever.
13:9 你们不要被各样怪异的教训带入歧途，因为心靠恩典得坚固，不靠祭物作食物，才是好的；那靠祭物作食物而行的，从来没有得着益处。
Do not be carried away by various strange teachings, for it is good for the heart to be confirmed by grace, not by the food of sacrifices, by which those who walk
were not profited.
13:10 我们有一祭坛，其上的祭物，是那些事奉帐幕的人没有权利吃的。
We have an altar from which they who are serving the tabernacle have no right to eat.
13:11 原来祭牲的血，由大祭司为着罪带进至圣所，祭牲的身体，被烧在营外。
For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the Holy of Holies for sin by the high priest are burned up outside the camp.
13:12 所以耶稣为要藉自己的血圣别百姓，也就在城门外受苦。
Therefore also Jesus, that He might sanctify the people through His own blood, suffered outside the gate.
13:13 这样，我们也当出到营外就了祂去，忍受祂所受的凌辱。
Let us therefore go forth unto Him outside the camp, bearing His reproach.
13:14 我们在这里本没有常存的城，乃是寻求那要来的城。
For we do not have here a remaining city, but we seek after the one to come.
13:15 所以我们应当借着耶稣，常常向神献上赞美的祭，这就是承认主名之嘴唇的果子。
Through Him then let us offer up a sacrifice of praise continually to God, that is, the fruit of lips confessing His name.
13:16 只是不可忘记行善和供输，因为这样的祭物是神所喜悦的。
But do not forget doing good and sharing with others, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
13:17 你们要信从那些带领你们的，且要服从；因他们为你们的魂儆醒，好像要交账的人；你们要使他们欢乐的作这事，不至叹息；若叹息，就与你们无
益了。
Obey the ones leading you and submit to them, for they watch over your souls as those who will render an account, that they may do this with joy and not
groaning; for this would be unprofitable to you.
13:18 请你们为我们祷告，因我们深信自己良心无亏，愿意凡事都行得好。
Pray for us, for we are persuaded that we have a good conscience, desiring in all things to conduct ourselves honorably.
13:19 我更加求你们为我祷告，使我能快些回到你们那里去。
And I exhort you much more to do this that I may be restored to you more quickly.
13:20 但愿平安的神，就是那凭永约之血，领群羊的大牧人我们的主耶稣，从死人中上来的，
Now the God of peace, He who brought up from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great Shepherd of the sheep, in the blood of an eternal covenant,
13:21 在各样善事上成全你们，好实行祂的旨意；祂是在我们里面，借着耶稣基督，行祂看为可喜悦的事。愿荣耀归与祂，直到永永远远。阿们。
Perfect you in every good work for the doing of His will, doing in us that which is well pleasing in His sight through Jesus Christ; to Him be the glory forever and
ever. Amen.
13:22 弟兄们，我恳求你们容纳这劝勉的话，因我不过是简短的写给你们。
Now I beseech you, brothers, bear with the word of this exhortation; for indeed I have written to you in few words.
13:23 你们该知道，我们的弟兄提摩太已经释放了；他若快来，我必同他去见你们。
Know that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom, if he comes soon, I will see you.
13:24 请问带领你们的诸位和众圣徒安。从义大利来的人也问你们安。
Greet all the ones leading you and all the saints. Those from Italy greet you.
13:25 愿恩典与你们众人同在。阿们。
Grace be with you all. Amen.
1155
1156
59. 雅各书 James
雅各书 James 第 1 章
1:1 神和主耶稣基督的奴仆雅各，写信给散居的十二个支派：愿你们喜乐。
James, a slave of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes in the dispersion: Rejoice!
1:2 我的弟兄们，无论何时你们落在诸般的试炼中，都要以为大喜乐；
Count it all joy, my brothers, whenever you fall into various trials,
1:3 知道你们信心所受的试验，产生忍耐。
Knowing that the proving of your faith works out endurance.
1:4 但忍耐也当成功，好使你们齐备完整，毫无缺欠。
And let endurance have its perfect work that you may be perfect and entire, lacking in nothing.
1:5 你们中间若有缺少智慧的，就当求那厚赐众人，也不斥责人的神，就必有赐给他的。
But if any one of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all liberally and does not reproach, and it will be given to him.
1:6 只是要凭着信心求，一点不疑惑；因为那疑惑的人，就像海中的波浪，被风吹动翻腾。
But let him ask in faith, doubting nothing, for he who doubts is like the surge of the sea, driven by the wind and tossed about.
1:7 这样的人，不要想从主那里得到什么；
For that man must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord;
1:8 心怀二意的人，在他一切的路上，都是摇荡不定的。
He is a double-souled man, unstable in all his ways.
1:9 卑微的弟兄升高，就该夸耀；
And let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation,
1:10 富足的降卑，也该如此，因为他必要过去，如同草上的花一样。
And the rich in his being brought low, because like a flower of the grass he will pass away.
1:11 太阳升起，热气薰烤，草就枯干，花也凋谢，美容就消没了；那富足的人在他所行的事上，也要这样衰残。
For the sun rises with its scorching heat and withers the grass, and its flower falls off, and the beauty of its appearance is destroyed; so also the rich man will fade
away in his pursuits.
1:12 忍受试炼的人有福了，因为他既受试验得了称许，就必得着生命的冠冕，这是主应许给那些爱祂之人的。
Blessed is the man who endures trial, because when he has become approved by testing, he will receive the crown of life, which He promised to those who love
Him.
1:13 人被试诱，不可说，我是被神试诱，因为神不被恶试诱，祂也不试诱人。
Let no one say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God; for God cannot be tempted of evil, and He Himself tempts no one.
1:14 但各人被试诱，乃是被自己的私欲勾引诱惑的；
But each one is tempted when he is drawn away and enticed by his own lusts;
1:15 然后私欲怀了胎，就生出罪；罪既长成，就产生死。
Then the lust, having conceived, gives birth to sin; and the sin, when it is fully grown, brings forth death.
1:16 我亲爱的弟兄们，不要看错了。
Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers.
1:17 一切美善的赐与、和各样完备的恩赐，都是从上头，从众光之父降下来的，在祂并没有变动，或转动的影儿。
All good giving and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variation or shadow cast by turning.
1:18 祂照自己的定意，用真理的话生了我们，叫我们在祂所造的万物中，成为初熟的果子。
He brought us forth by the word of truth, purposing that we might be a kind of firstfruits of His creatures.
1:19 我亲爱的弟兄们，这是你们所知道的，但你们各人要快快的听，慢慢的说，慢慢的动怒；
You know this, my beloved brothers; but let every man be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath;
1:20 因为人的忿怒并不成就神的义。
For the wrath of man does not accomplish the righteousness of God.
1:21 所以你们既脱去一切的污秽，和盈余的恶毒，就该用温柔领受那栽种的话，就是能救你们魂的话。
Therefore putting away all filthiness and the abundance of malice, receive in meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls.
1:22 只是你们要作行道者，不要单作听道者，自己欺哄自己。
And become doers of the word and not hearers only, who delude themselves.
1:23 因为人若是听道者，而不是行道者，就像人对着镜子看自己本来的面目；
Because if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, this one is like a man considering in a mirror the face he was born with;
1:24 看过走开以后，随即忘了自己是什么样子。
For he considers himself and goes away, and immediately forgets what kind of person he is.
1:25 惟有详细察看那完备自由的律法，并且时常如此的，他不是听了就忘，乃是实在行出来，就在他所行的事上必然得福。
But he who looks into the perfect law, the law of freedom, and continues in it, becoming not a forgetful hearer but a doer of the work, this one will be blessed in
his doing.
1:26 若有人自以为是虔敬的，却不勒住他的舌头，反欺骗自己的心，这人的虔敬是虚空的。
If anyone thinks himself to be religious and yet does not bridle his tongue but deceives his heart, this one's religion is vain.
1:27 在神与父面前，那清洁没有玷污的虔敬，就是看顾在患难中的孤儿寡妇，保守自己不受世界玷污。
This is pure and undefiled religion before our God and Father: to visit orphans and widows in their affliction and to keep oneself unspotted from the world.
雅各书 James 第 2 章
2:1 我的弟兄们，你们既相信我们荣耀的主耶稣基督，便不可按着外貌待人。
1157
My brothers, do not hold the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ of glory with respect of persons.
2:2 若有一个人戴着金戒指，穿着华丽衣服，进你们的会堂去，又有一个穷人，穿着肮脏衣服也进去；
For if there comes into your synagogue a man with gold rings in splendid clothing, and there also comes in a poor man in filthy clothing,
2:3 你们就重看那穿华丽衣服的人，说，请你坐在这好位上；又对那穷人说，你站在那里，或坐在我脚凳下边。
And you look upon the one wearing the splendid clothing and say, You sit here in a good place, and to the poor man you say, You stand there, or sit under my
footstool;
2:4 这岂不是你们中间有了歧视，用恶意判断人么？
Have you not made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil reasonings?
2:5 我亲爱的弟兄们，请听，神岂不是拣选了世上贫穷的人，叫他们在信上富足，并承受祂所应许给那些爱祂之人的国么？
Listen, my beloved brothers: Did not God choose the poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which He promised to those who love Him?
2:6 你们反倒羞辱贫穷的人。那富足的人岂不是欺压你们，拉你们到法庭去么？
But you have dishonored the poor. Is it not the rich who oppress you and is it not they who drag you to the courts?
2:7 他们不是亵渎那在你们身上被称呼的尊名么？
Is it not they who blaspheme the honorable name by which you are called?
2:8 你们若照着经上“要爱邻舍如同自己”的话，成全这君尊的律法，你们就作得好了；
If indeed you are fulfilling the royal law according to the Scripture, "You shall love your neighbor as yourself,'' you do well;
2:9 但你们若按外貌待人，便是犯罪，给律法定为犯法的。
But if you respect persons, you commit sin, being convicted by the law as transgressors.
2:10 因为凡遵守全律法，却在一条上失脚的，他就是犯了众条。
For whoever keeps the whole law yet stumbles in one point has become guilty of all.
2:11 原来那说不可奸淫的，也说不可杀人。你若是不奸淫，却杀人，还是成了犯律法的。
For He who said, Do not commit adultery, also said, Do not murder. Now if you do not commit adultery, but you murder, you have become a transgressor of the
law.
2:12 你们既然要按自由的律法受审判，就该照这律法说话行事。
So speak and so do as those who are to be judged by the law of freedom.
2:13 因为那不怜悯人的，也要受无怜悯的审判；怜悯原是向审判夸胜。
For the judgment is without mercy to him who has shown no mercy; mercy triumphs over judgment.
2:14 我的弟兄们，若有人说自己有信心，却没有行为，有什么益处？难道这信心能救他么？
What is the profit, my brothers, if anyone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him?
2:15 若有弟兄或姊妹经常是赤身露体的，又缺了日用的食物，
If a brother or sister is without clothing and lacks daily food,
2:16 而你们中间有人对他们说，平平安安的去吧，愿你们穿得暖，吃得饱；却不给他们身体所需用的，有什么益处？
And any one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled, yet you do not give them the necessities of the body, what is the profit?
2:17 信心也是这样，若没有行为，就是死的。
So also faith, if it does not have works, is dead in itself.
2:18 有人会说，你有信心，我有行为；你将你没有行为的信心指给我看，我便由我的行为，将我的信心指给你看。
But someone will say, You have faith, and I have works; show me your faith without the works, and I will show you my faith by my works.
2:19 你信神只有一位；你信的不错；鬼也信，却是战惊。
You believe that God is one. You do well; the demons also believe and shudder.
2:20 虚浮的人哪，你愿意知道没有行为的信心是无用的么？
But are you willing to know, O vain man, that faith without its works is useless?
2:21 我们的祖宗亚伯拉罕，把他儿子以撒献在坛上，岂不是本于行为得称义么？
Was not Abraham our father justified by works in that he offered up Isaac his son upon the altar?
2:22 你看，信心是与他的行为同工，而且信心本于行为才得完全；
You see that faith worked together with his works, and by these works faith was perfected.
2:23 这就应验经上所说的：“亚伯拉罕信神，这就算为他的义。”他又得称为神的朋友。
And the Scripture was fulfilled which says, "And Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him as righteousness''; and he was called the friend of God.
2:24 可见人得称义是本于行为，不是单本于信。
You see that a man is justified by works and not by faith only.
2:25 妓女喇合接待使者，又放他们从别的路上出去，不也是一样本于行为得称义么？
And in like manner was not also Rahab the harlot justified by works in that she received the messengers and sent them out by a different way?
2:26 身体没有灵是死的，照样，信心没有行为也是死的。
For just as the body without the spirit is dead, so also faith without works is dead.
雅各书 James 第 3 章
3:1 我的弟兄们，不要多人作教师，因为知道我们要受更重的审判。
Do not become many teachers, my brothers, knowing that we will receive greater judgment.
3:2 我们在许多事上都有过失，若有人在话语上没有过失，他就是完全人，也能勒住全身。
For in many things we all stumble. If anyone does not stumble in word, this one is a perfect man, able to bridle the whole body as well.
3:3 我们若把嚼环放在马嘴里，叫它们服从我们，就能调动它们的全身。
Now if we put bridles into the mouths of horses that they would obey us, we direct their whole body as well.
3:4 看哪，船只虽然那么大，又被狂风催逼，无论掌舵者的意思要往那里去，都能被小小的舵调动。
Behold, the ships also, though they are so great and are driven by rough winds, are directed by a very small rudder wherever the impulse of the pilot wills.
3:5 舌头也是这样，虽是个小肢体，却能说夸大的话。看哪，多么小的火，能点着多么大的树林。
1158
So also the tongue is a little member yet boasts great things. Behold, how great a forest so little a fire ignites!
3:6 舌头就是火，在我们百体中，是个不义的世界，污秽全身，也把生命的轮子点起来，且是给火坑的火点着的。
And the tongue is a fire; the very world of unrighteousness, the tongue is set among our members as that which contaminates the whole body and sets on fire
the course of life and is set on fire by Gehenna.
3:7 原来各类走兽、飞禽、爬物和水族的性情，都可以制伏，也已经被人的性情制伏了；
For every nature, both of beasts and of birds, both of reptiles and of creatures of the sea, is tamed and has been tamed by the human nature;
3:8 惟独舌头没有人能制伏，是不止息的恶物，满了致死的毒气。
But the tongue no one among men is able to tame; it is a restless evil, full of deadly poison.
3:9 我们用舌头颂赞那为主为父的，又用舌头咒诅那照着神样式受造的人。
With it we bless the Lord and Father, and with it we curse men, who have been made according to the likeness of God.
3:10 颂赞和咒诅从同一个口里出来，我的弟兄们，这是不应当的。
Out of the same mouth come forth blessing and cursing. These things, my brothers, ought not to be so.
3:11 泉源从同一个眼里能涌出甜水和苦水么？
Does the spring, out of the same opening, gush forth the sweet and the bitter?
3:12 我的弟兄们，无花果树能生橄榄么？葡萄树能结无花果么？咸水也不能发出甜水来。
Can a fig tree, my brothers, produce olives? Or a vine, figs? Neither can salt water produce sweet.
3:13 你们中间谁是有智慧有见识的？他就当用智慧的温柔，凭他美好的品行，显出他所作所为的。
Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show by his good manner of life his works in meekness of wisdom.
3:14 但你们心里若怀着苦毒的嫉妒和私图好争，就不要再夸口，也不要再说谎抵挡真理了。
But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your heart, do not boast and lie against the truth.
3:15 这样的智慧，不是从上头下来的，乃是属地的、属魂的、出于鬼且像鬼的。
This wisdom is not that which descends from above, but is earthly, soulish, demonic.
3:16 因为何处有嫉妒和私图好争，何处就有扰乱和各样的坏事。
For where jealousy and selfish ambition are, there disorder and every worthless practice are.
3:17 惟独从上头来的智慧，先是纯洁的，后是和平的、和蔼的、柔顺的，满有怜悯和善果，没有偏见，没有假冒。
But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, forbearing, compliant, full of mercy and good fruit, impartial, without hypocrisy.
3:18 并且义的果子，乃是由那些制造和平的人，在和平中所种植的。
And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace.
雅各书 James 第 4 章
4:1 你们中间的争战是从那里来的？斗殴是从那里来的？岂不是从你们肢体中交战的私欲来的么？
Where do wars and fightings among you come from? Are they not from this, from your pleasures that war in your members?
4:2 你们纵任贪欲，仍无所有；你们杀害嫉妒，也不能得，你们就斗殴争战。你们没有，是因为你们不求；
You lust and do not have; you murder and are jealous and are not able to obtain; you fight and make war. You do not have because you do not ask;
4:3 你们求也无所得，是因为你们妄求，为要耗费在你们的宴乐中。
You ask and do not receive because you ask evilly that you may spend it on your pleasures.
4:4 你们这些淫乱的人，岂不知与世界为友，就是与神为敌么？所以凡想要与世界为友的，就成了神的仇敌。
Adulteresses, do you not know that the friendship of the world is enmity with God? Therefore whoever determines to be a friend of the world is constituted an
enemy of God.
4:5 经上说，“祂使其居住在我们里面的那灵，恋慕以至于嫉妒。”你们想，这话是徒然的么？
Or do you think that the Scripture says in vain: "The Spirit, whom He has caused to dwell in us, longs to envy''?
4:6 但祂赐更大的恩典；所以经上说，“神敌挡狂傲的人，赐恩给谦卑的人。”
But He gives greater grace; therefore it says, "God resists the proud but gives grace to the humble.''
4:7 所以你们要服从神，抵挡魔鬼，魔鬼就必离开你们逃跑了。
Be subject therefore to God; but withstand the devil, and he will flee from you.
4:8 你们要亲近神，神就必亲近你们。有罪的人哪，要洁净你们的手。心怀二意的人哪，要纯洁你们的心。
Draw near to God, and He will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-souled!
4:9 你们要愁苦、哀恸、哭泣；你们的喜笑要变作哀恸，欢乐要变作忧郁。
Endure misery and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned into mourning, and your joy into dejection.
4:10 你们要在主面前降卑，主就必叫你们升高。
Be humbled before the Lord, and He will exalt you.
4:11 弟兄们，你们不可彼此批评；那批评弟兄，或审判弟兄的，就是批评律法，审判律法。你若审判律法，就不是行律法者，乃是审判者。
Do not speak against one another, brothers. He who speaks against a brother or judges his brother speaks against the law and judges the law. But if you judge
the law, you are not a doer of the law but a judge.
4:12 设立律法者和审判者只有一位，就是那能救人，也能灭人的。你这审判邻舍的，你是谁？
One is Lawgiver and Judge, who is able to save and destroy. But who are you who judge your neighbor?
4:13 嗐，你们说，今天或明天，我们要往某城去，在那里住一年，作买卖得利；
Come now, you who say, Today or tomorrow we will go into this or that city and spend a year there and do business and make a profit;
4:14 其实明天的事你们并不知道。你们的生命是什么？你们原是一团雾气，出现少时，随后就不见了。
Whereas you do not know the matter of tomorrow, what your life will be; for you are a vapor, which appears for a little while and then disappears.
4:15 你们倒应当说，主若愿意，我们就可以活着，也可以作这事，或作那事。
Instead you ought to say, If the Lord wills, we will both live and do this or that.
4:16 现今你们竟以张狂夸口；凡这样夸口都是恶的。
But now you boast in your arrogance; all such boasting is evil.
1159
4:17 因此，人若知道行善，却不去行，这对他就是罪了。
Therefore to him who knows to do good and does not do it, to him it is sin.
雅各书 James 第 5 章
5:1 嗐，你们富足的人，应当为那将要临到你们的悲惨哭泣号啕。
Come now, you rich, weep, howling over your miseries, which are coming upon you!
5:2 你们的财物坏了，衣服也被虫子咬了。
Your riches have rotted and your garments have become moth-eaten;
5:3 你们的金银都锈蚀了，这锈要作见证，定你们的罪，又要像火一样，吃你们的肉。你们在末后的日子积蓄财宝。
Your gold and your silver have rusted, and their rust will be a testimony against you and will eat your flesh like fire. You have stored up treasure in the last days.
5:4 看哪，工人收割你们的田地，你们扣下他们的工钱，这工钱为他们喊冤；并且那收割之人的呼声，已经入了万军之主的耳中。
Behold, the wages of the workmen who mowed your fields, which have been withheld by you, cry out; and the cries of those who reaped have entered into the
ears of the Lord of hosts.
5:5 你们活在地上奢华宴乐；当宰杀的日子，竟养肥了你们的心。
You have lived luxuriously on the earth and have given yourselves to pleasure; you have nourished your hearts in a day of slaughter.
5:6 你们定了义人的罪，把他杀害，他没有敌挡你们。
You condemned, you murdered the righteous; he does not resist you.
5:7 所以，弟兄们，你们要恒忍，直到主的来临。看哪，农夫等候地里宝贵的出产，为此恒忍，直到得了秋雨春雨。
Therefore be long-suffering, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. Behold, the farmer eagerly awaits the precious fruit of the earth, exercising long-suffering over
it until it receives the early and late rain.
5:8 你们也当恒忍，坚固你们的心，因为主的来临近了。
You also be long-suffering; establish your hearts because the coming of the Lord has drawn near.
5:9 弟兄们，你们不要彼此埋怨，免得受审判；看哪，那审判者站在门前了。
Do not complain, brothers, against one another lest you be judged. Behold, the Judge stands before the doors.
5:10 弟兄们，你们要把那曾在主名里说话的众申言者，当作受苦和恒忍的榜样。
As an example, brothers, of suffering evil and of long-suffering, take the prophets, who spoke in the name of the Lord.
5:11 看哪，我们称那忍耐的人是有福的。你们听见过约伯的忍耐，也看见过主给他的结局，明显主是满有慈心，且有怜恤。
Behold, we call those who endured blessed. You have heard of the endurance of Job, and you have seen his end from the Lord, that the Lord is very
tenderhearted and compassionate.
5:12 我的弟兄们，最要紧的是不可起誓；不可指着天起誓，也不可指着地起誓，无论何誓都不可起；你们的话，是，就说是，不是，就说不是，免得你们
落在审判之下。
But above all things, my brothers, do not swear, neither by heaven nor by earth nor with any other oath; but let your yes be yes, and your no, no, lest you fall
under judgment.
5:13 你们中间有受苦的么？他该祷告。有愉快的么？他该歌颂。
Does anyone among you suffer evil? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise.
5:14 你们中间有病弱的么？他该请召会的长老来，在主的名里用油抹他，为他祷告。
Is anyone among you ill? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord.
5:15 信心的祈祷要救那病人，主必叫他起来；他若犯了罪，也必蒙赦免。
And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up; and if he has committed sins, it will be forgiven him.
5:16 所以你们要彼此认罪，互相代祷，使你们可以得医治。义人的祈求发动起来，是大有能力的。
Therefore confess your sins to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed. The petition of a righteous man avails much in its working.
5:17 以利亚是与我们性情相同的人，他恳切祷告，求不要降雨，雨就三年零六个月不降在地上。
Elijah was a man of like feeling with us, and he earnestly prayed that it would not rain; and it did not rain on the earth for three years and six months.
5:18 他又祷告，天就赐下雨水，地也生出土产。
And he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth sprouted forth with its fruit.
5:19 我的弟兄们，你们中间若有人受迷惑离开真理，有人使他回转，
My brothers, if any one among you is led astray from the truth and someone turns him back,
5:20 这人该知道，那叫一个罪人从他错谬的路上转回的，必救他的魂脱离死亡，也必遮盖众多的罪。
Let him know that he who turns a sinner back from the error of his way will save that one's soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins.
1160
60. 彼得前书 1 Peter
彼得前书 1 Peter 第 1 章
1:1 耶稣基督的使徒彼得，写信给那分散在本都、加拉太、加帕多家、亚西亚、庇推尼的寄居者，
Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the sojourners of the dispersion of Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia,
1:2 就是照着父神的先见被拣选，借着那灵得圣别，以致顺从耶稣基督，并蒙祂血所洒的人：愿恩典与平安，繁增的归与你们。
Chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father in the sanctification of the Spirit unto the obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ: Grace to
you and peace be multiplied.
1:3 我们主耶稣基督的神与父是当受颂赞的，祂曾照自己的大怜悯，藉耶稣基督从死人中复活，重生了我们，使我们有活的盼望，
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to His great mercy has regenerated us unto a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus
Christ from the dead,
1:4 可以得着不能朽坏、不能玷污、不能衰残，为你们存留在诸天之上的基业，
Unto an inheritance, incorruptible and undefiled and unfading, kept in the heavens for you,
1:5 就是你们这因信蒙神能力保守的人，得着所预备，在末后的时期要显现的救恩。
Who are being guarded by the power of God through faith unto a salvation ready to be revealed at the last time;
1:6 在那时期你们要欢腾，尽管目前在诸般的试炼中，或许必须暂时忧愁，
In which time you exult, though for a little while at present, if it must be, you have been made sorrowful by various trials,
1:7 叫你们信心所受的试验，比那经过火的试验仍会毁坏之金子的试验，更为宝贵，可以在耶稣基督显现的时候，显为可得称赞、荣耀和尊贵的；
So that the proving of your faith, much more precious than of gold which perishes though it is proved by fire, may be found unto praise and glory and honor at
the revelation of Jesus Christ;
1:8 你们虽然没有见过祂，却是爱祂，如今虽不得看见，却因信入祂而欢腾，有说不出来、满有荣光的喜乐，
Whom having not seen, you love; into whom though not seeing Him at present, yet believing, you exult with joy that is unspeakable and full of glory,
1:9 得着你们信心的结果，就是魂的救恩。
Receiving the end of your faith, the salvation of your souls.
1:10 关于这救恩，那预言你们要得恩典的众申言者，已经详细的寻求考察过，
Concerning this salvation the prophets, who prophesied concerning the grace that was to come unto you, sought and searched diligently,
1:11 就是考察在他们里面基督的灵，预先证明那要临到基督的苦难，以及后来的荣耀，所指明的是什么时候，并怎样的时候；
Searching into what time or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ in them was making clear, testifying beforehand of the sufferings of Christ and the glories
after these.
1:12 他们得了启示，知道他们供应这些事，不是为自己，乃是为你们；那些靠着从天上差来的圣灵，传福音给你们的人，现在将这些事报给你们；天使也
渴望详细察看这些事。
To them it was revealed that not to themselves but to you they ministered these things, which have now been announced to you through those who preached the
gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, which things angels long to look into.
1:13 所以要束上你们心思的腰，谨慎自守，全然寄望于耶稣基督显现的时候，所带给你们的恩。
Therefore girding up the loins of your mind and being sober, set your hope perfectly on the grace being brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ.
1:14 你们是顺从的儿女，不要模仿从前无知之时所放纵的私欲；
As children of obedience, do not be fashioned according to the former lusts in your ignorance;
1:15 却要照着那呼召你们的圣者，在一切行事为人上，也成为圣的；
But according to the Holy One who called you, you yourselves also be holy in all your manner of life;
1:16 因为经上记着：“你们要圣别，因为我是圣别的。”
Because it is written, "You shall be holy because I am holy.''
1:17 你们既称那不偏待人，按各人行为审判的为父，就当在你们寄居的时日中，凭着敬畏行事为人；
And if you call as Father the One who without respect of persons judges according to each one's work, pass the time of your sojourning in fear,
1:18 知道你们得赎，脱离你们祖宗所传流虚妄的生活，不是用能坏的金银等物，
Knowing that it was not with corruptible things, with silver or gold, that you were redeemed from your vain manner of life handed down from your fathers,
1:19 乃是用基督的宝血，如同无瑕疵无玷污的羔羊之血。
But with precious blood, as of a Lamb without blemish and without spot, the blood of Christ;
1:20 基督在创世以前，就预先被神知道，却在诸时期的末后，才为你们显现出来；
Who was foreknown before the foundation of the world but has been manifested in the last of times for your sake,
1:21 你们借着祂，信入那叫祂从死人中复活，又给祂荣耀的神，叫你们的信和盼望都在于神。
Who through Him believe into God, who raised Him from the dead and gave Him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God.
1:22 你们既因顺从真理，洁净了自己的魂，以致爱弟兄没有假冒，就当从清洁的心里彼此热切相爱；
Since you have purified your souls by your obedience to the truth unto unfeigned brotherly love, love one another from a pure heart fervently,
1:23 你们蒙了重生，不是由于能坏的种子，乃是由于不能坏的种子，是借着神活而常存的话。
Having been regenerated not of corruptible seed but of incorruptible, through the living and abiding word of God.
1:24 因为“凡属肉体的人尽都如草，他一切的荣美都像草上的花；草必枯干，花必凋谢，
For "all flesh is like grass, and all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass has withered, and the flower has fallen off,
1:25 惟有主的话永远长存。”所传给你们的福音就是这话。
But the word of the Lord abides forever.'' And this is the word which has been announced to you as the gospel.
彼得前书 1 Peter 第 2 章
2:1 所以要脱去一切的恶毒、和一切的诡诈、并伪善、嫉妒、以及一切毁谤的话，
Therefore putting away all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envyings and all evil speakings,
1161
2:2 像才生的婴孩一样，切慕那纯净的话奶，叫你们靠此长大，以致得救；
As newborn babes, long for the guileless milk of the word in order that by it you may grow unto salvation,
2:3 你们若尝过主是美善的，就必如此；
If you have tasted that the Lord is good.
2:4 你们来到祂这为人所弃绝，却为神所拣选所宝贵的活石跟前，
Coming to Him, a living stone, rejected by men but with God chosen and precious,
2:5 也就像活石，被建造成为属灵的殿，成为圣别的祭司体系，借着耶稣基督献上神所悦纳的属灵祭物。
You yourselves also, as living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house into a holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus
Christ.
2:6 因为经上记着说，“看哪，我把所拣选所宝贵的房角石，安放在锡安，信靠祂的人，必不至于羞愧。”
For it is contained in Scripture: "Behold, I lay in Zion a cornerstone, chosen and precious; and he who believes on Him shall by no means be put to shame.''
2:7 所以祂在你们信的人是宝贵的，在那不信的人却是“匠人所弃的石头，已成了房角的头块石头，”
To you therefore who believe is the preciousness; but to the unbelieving, "The stone which the builders rejected, this has become the head of the corner,''
2:8 又是“绊脚的石头，并跌人的磐石。”他们既不信从，就在这话上绊跌，他们这样绊跌也是预定的。
And, "A stone of stumbling and a rock of offense''; who stumble at the word, being disobedient, to which also they were appointed.
2:9 惟有你们是蒙拣选的族类，是君尊的祭司体系，是圣别的国度，是买来作产业的子民，要叫你们宣扬那召你们出黑暗、入祂奇妙之光者的美德；
But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people acquired for a possession, so that you may tell out the virtues of Him who has called you
out of darkness into His marvelous light;
2:10 你们从前不是子民，现在却是神的子民；从前未曾蒙怜悯，现在却蒙了怜悯。
Who once were not a people but now are the people of God; who had not previously been shown mercy but have now been shown mercy.
2:11 亲爱的，我劝你们作客旅和寄居的，要禁戒属肉体的私欲，这私欲是与魂战斗的；
Beloved, I entreat you as strangers and sojourners to abstain from fleshly lusts, which war against the soul,
2:12 你们在外邦人中，要有佳美的品行，好叫他们在何事上毁谤你们是作恶者，就在何事上，由于亲眼看见你们的好行为，便在眷顾的日子荣耀神。
Having your manner of life excellent among the Gentiles, so that in the matter concerning which they speak against you as evildoers they may, by your good
works, as they see them with their own eyes, glorify God in the day of His visitation.
2:13 你们为主的缘故，要服从人一切的制度，或是有权位的君王，
Be subject to every human institution for the Lord's sake, whether to a king as being supreme,
2:14 或是君王所差遣报应作恶者、称赞行善者的官长；
Or to governors as being sent by him for vengeance on evildoers and praise of those who do good.
2:15 因为神的旨意就是要你们行善，以笼住愚妄无知者的口；
For so is the will of God, that by doing good you would muzzle the ignorance of foolish men;
2:16 你们是自由的，不可用自由遮盖恶毒，却要作神的奴仆。
As free, and yet not having freedom as a covering for evil, but as slaves of God.
2:17 务要尊敬众人，爱众弟兄，敬畏神，尊敬君王。
Honor all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the king.
2:18 作家仆的，要在凡事上敬畏服从主人，不但服从那良善和蔼的，就是那乖僻的也要服从。
Household servants, be subject in all fear to your masters, not only to the good and forbearing but also to the crooked.
2:19 人若因着对神的感觉而忍受忧愁，受冤屈之苦，就是甜美的。
For this is grace, if anyone, because of a consciousness of God, bears sorrows by suffering unjustly.
2:20 你们若因犯罪挨拳打而忍耐，有什么可夸耀的？但你们若因行善受苦而忍耐，这在神乃是甜美的。
For what glory is it if, while sinning and being buffeted, you endure? But if, while doing good and suffering, you endure, this is grace with God.
2:21 你们蒙召原是为此，因基督也为你们受过苦，给你们留下榜样，叫你们跟随祂的脚踪行；
For to this you were called, because Christ also suffered on your behalf, leaving you a model so that you may follow in His steps;
2:22 祂没有犯过罪，口里也找不到诡诈；
Who committed no sin, nor was guile found in His mouth;
2:23 祂被骂不还口，受苦不说威吓的话，只将一切交给那按公义审判的。
Who being reviled did not revile in return; suffering, He did not threaten but kept committing all to Him who judges righteously;
2:24 祂在木头上，在祂的身体里，亲自担当了我们的罪，使我们既然向罪死了，就得以向义活着；因祂受的鞭伤，你们便得了医治。
Who Himself bore up our sins in His body on the tree, in order that we, having died to sins, might live to righteousness; by whose bruise you were healed.
2:25 你们好像羊走迷了路，如今却归到你们魂的牧人和监督了。
For you were like sheep being led astray, but you have now returned to the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls.
彼得前书 1 Peter 第 3 章
3:1 照样，作妻子的，要服从自己的丈夫，好叫那些甚至不信从主话的，也可以不用主的话，借着妻子的品行，被主得着，
In like manner, wives, be subject to your own husbands, that even if any disobey the word, they will be gained without the word through the manner of life of their
wives,
3:2 这是因为他们亲眼看见你们敬畏中纯洁的品行。
Seeing with their own eyes your pure manner of life in fear.
3:3 你们的妆饰，不要重于外面的辫头发、戴金饰、穿衣服，
Let your adorning not be the outward plaiting of hair and putting on of gold or clothing with garments,
3:4 乃要重于那以温柔安静的灵为不朽坏之妆饰的心中隐藏的人，这在神面前是极有价值的。
But the hidden man of the heart in the incorruptible adornment of a meek and quiet spirit, which is very costly in the sight of God.
3:5 因为从前那仰望神的圣别妇人，也是这样妆饰自己，服从自己的丈夫，
For in this manner formerly the holy women also, who hoped in God, adorned themselves, being subject to their own husbands,
1162
3:6 就如撒拉顺从亚伯拉罕，称他为主；你们若行善，不怕任何的惊吓，便是撒拉的儿女了。
As Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord; whose children you have become, if you do good and do not fear any terror.
3:7 照样，作丈夫的，要按情理与妻子同住，因为她是比你软弱的器皿，是女性；又要按她应得的分敬重她，因为她是与你一同承受生命之恩的，好叫你
们的祷告不受拦阻。
Husbands, in like manner dwell together with them according to knowledge, as with the weaker, female vessel, assigning honor to them as also to fellow heirs of
the grace of life, that your prayers may not be hindered.
3:8 总之，你们众人都要心思一致，同情体恤，弟兄相爱，心存慈怜，心思卑微。
And finally be all of the same mind, sympathetic, loving the brothers, tenderhearted, humble-minded;
3:9 不以恶报恶，或以辱骂还辱骂，倒要祝福，因你们是为此蒙召，好叫你们承受福分。
Not rendering evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary blessing one another, because you were called to this, that you might inherit blessing.
3:10 因为“那想要爱生命，看见好日子的，要禁止舌头不出恶言，嘴唇不说诡诈的话；
For "he who desires to love life and see good days, let him cause his tongue to cease from evil and his lips to speak no guile.
3:11 也要离恶行善，寻求和睦，竭力追逐；
And let him turn away from evil and do good; let him seek peace and pursue it;
3:12 因为主的眼看顾义人，祂的耳垂听他们的祈求；惟有行恶的人，主向他们变脸。”
For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and His ears incline to their petition; but the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.''
3:13 你们若是热心行善，有谁苦害你们？
And who will harm you if you become zealous for what is good?
3:14 你们就是因义受苦，也是有福的；不要怕人的威吓，也不要惊慌；
But even if you suffer because of righteousness, you are blessed. And do not be afraid with fear from them, nor be troubled,
3:15 只要心里尊基督为圣，以祂为主，常作准备，好对每一个问你们里面盼望因由的人有所答辩，
But sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, being always ready for a defense to everyone who asks of you an account concerning the hope which is in you,
3:16 且要带着温柔和敬畏，存着无亏的良心，叫你们在何事上被毁谤，就在何事上，可以叫那诬赖你们的人，因你们在基督里的好品行，感到羞愧。
Yet with meekness and fear, having a good conscience, so that in the matter in which you are spoken against, those who revile your good manner of life in Christ
may be put to shame.
3:17 如果神的旨意要你们因行善受苦，总强如因行恶受苦。
For it is better, if the will of God should will it, to suffer for doing good than for doing evil.
3:18 因基督也曾一次为罪受死，就是义的代替不义的，为要引你们到神面前；在肉体里祂被治死，在灵里祂却活着；
For Christ also has suffered once for sins, the Righteous on behalf of the unrighteous, that He might bring you to God, on the one hand being put to death in the
flesh, but on the other, made alive in the Spirit;
3:19 在这灵里，祂也曾去向那些在监狱里的灵，
In which also He went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison,
3:20 就是向从前在挪亚预备方舟的日子，神恒忍热切等待的时候，那些悖逆者宣扬；那进入方舟，借着水安全得救的不多，只有八个人。
Who had formerly disobeyed when the long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared; entering into which, a few, that is,
eight souls, were brought safely through by water.
3:21 这水所预表的浸，现在借着耶稣基督复活，也拯救你们；这浸并不是除掉肉体的污秽，乃是向神诉求无亏的良心。
Which water, as the antitype, also now saves you, that is, baptism, not a putting away of the filth of the flesh but the appeal of a good conscience unto God,
through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
3:22 耶稣基督既已进入了天，就坐在神的右边，众天使和掌权的、并有能的，都服了祂。
Who is at the right hand of God, having gone into heaven, angels and authorities and powers being subjected to Him.
彼得前书 1 Peter 第 4 章
4:1 基督既在肉身受过苦，你们也当用同样的心思武装自己，（因为在肉身受过苦的，就与罪断绝了；）
Since Christ therefore has suffered in the flesh, you also arm yourselves with the same mind (because he who has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin),
4:2 好使你们不再从人的情欲，只从神的旨意，在肉身中度余下的光阴。
No longer to live the rest of the time in the flesh in the lusts of men, but in the will of God.
4:3 因为已过随从外邦人的心意，行邪荡、情欲、醉酒、荒宴、群饮、并不法可憎拜偶像的事，时候已经够了；
For the time which has passed is sufficient for you to have carried out the desire of the Gentiles, having gone on in licentiousness, lusts, debaucheries, carousings,
drinking bouts, and lawless idolatries.
4:4 在这些事上，你们不与他们奔入同样放荡的洪流中，他们就以为怪，毁谤你们；
In this they think it strange that you are not running together with them into the same flood of dissoluteness, slandering you;
4:5 他们必向那预备好要审判活人死人的主交账。
Who will render an account to Him who is ready to judge the living and the dead.
4:6 为此，就是现在死了的人，也曾有福音在他们活着的时候传给他们，好叫他们在肉身中照着人受审判，在灵里却照着神活着。
For unto this end the gospel was announced also to those who are now dead, that they might be judged in the flesh according to men but live in the spirit
according to God.
4:7 但万物的结局已经临近了，所以要清明适度，并且要谨慎自守，以便祷告。
But the end of all things has drawn near. Therefore be sober-minded and be sober unto prayers.
4:8 最要紧的，是彼此热切相爱，因为爱能遮盖众多的罪。
Above all, have fervent love among yourselves, because love covers a multitude of sins.
4:9 你们要互相款待，不发怨言；
Be hospitable to one another without murmuring,
4:10 各人要照所得的恩赐，将这恩赐彼此供应，作神诸般恩典的好管家。
Each one, as he has received a gift, ministering it among yourselves as good stewards of the varied grace of God.
1163
4:11 若有人讲论，要讲神的谕言；若有人服事，要按着神所供应的力量服事，叫神可以在凡事上借着耶稣基督得荣耀。愿荣耀权能归与祂，直到永永远远。
阿们。
If anyone speaks, as speaking oracles of God; if anyone ministers, as ministering out of the strength which God supplies; that in all things God may be glorified
through Jesus Christ, to whom is the glory and the might forever and ever. Amen.
4:12 亲爱的，有火炼的试验临到你们，为要试炼你们，不要以为奇怪，似乎是遭遇非常的事，
Beloved, do not think that the fiery ordeal among you, coming to you for a trial, is strange, as if it were a strange thing happening to you;
4:13 倒要照着你们有分于基督苦难的多少而欢乐，使你们在祂荣耀显现的时候，也可以喜乐欢腾。
But inasmuch as you share in the sufferings of Christ, rejoice, so that also at the revelation of His glory you may rejoice exultingly.
4:14 你们若在基督的名里受辱骂，便是有福的，因为荣耀的灵，就是神的灵，安息在你们身上。
If you are reproached in the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you.
4:15 你们中间却不可有人因为是杀人的、或偷窃的、作恶的、或好管闲事的而受苦。
For let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler into others' affairs;
4:16 但若因是基督徒受苦，却不要羞耻，倒要因着这名荣耀神。
But if as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in this name.
4:17 因为时候到了，审判要从神的家起首。若是先从我们起首，那不信从神福音的人，将有何等的结局？
For it is time for the judgment to begin from the house of God; and if first from us, what will be the end of those who disobey the gospel of God?
4:18 若是义人得救尚且如此艰难，那不敬虔和犯罪的人，将有何地可站？
And if the righteous man is saved only with difficulty, where will the ungodly and the sinner appear?
4:19 所以那照神旨意受苦的人，也要在善行上，将他们的魂交与那信实的创造主。
So then let those also who suffer according to the will of God commit their souls in well-doing to a faithful Creator.
彼得前书 1 Peter 第 5 章
5:1 所以，我这同作长老，作基督受苦的见证人，并同享那将要显出之荣耀的，劝你们中间作长老的人，
Therefore the elders among you I exhort, who am a fellow elder and witness of the sufferings of Christ, who am also a partaker of the glory to be revealed:
5:2 务要牧养你们中间神的群羊，按着神监督他们，不是出于勉强，乃是出于甘心；不是为着卑鄙的利益，乃是出于热切；
Shepherd the flock of God among you, overseeing not under compulsion but willingly, according to God; not by seeking gain through base means but eagerly;
5:3 也不是作主辖管所委托你们的产业，乃是作群羊的榜样。
Nor as lording it over your allotments but by becoming patterns of the flock.
5:4 到了牧长显现的时候，你们必得着那不能衰残的荣耀冠冕。
And when the Chief Shepherd is manifested, you will receive the unfading crown of glory.
5:5 照样，年幼的，要服从年长的；你们众人彼此相待，也都要以谦卑束腰，因为神敌挡狂傲的人，赐恩给谦卑的人。
In like manner, younger men, be subject to elders; and all of you gird yourselves with humility toward one another, because God resists the proud but gives grace
to the humble.
5:6 所以你们要谦卑，服在神大能的手下，使祂到了时候，可以叫你们升高。
Therefore be humbled under the mighty hand of God that He may exalt you in due time,
5:7 你们要将一切的忧虑卸给神，因为祂顾念你们。
Casting all your anxiety on Him because it matters to Him concerning you.
5:8 务要谨守、儆醒。你们的对头魔鬼，如同吼叫的狮子，遍地游行，寻找可吞吃的人；
Be sober; watch. Your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walks about, seeking someone to devour.
5:9 你们要抵挡他，要在信上坚固，知道你们在世上的众弟兄，也是遭遇同样的苦难。
Him withstand, being firm in your faith, knowing that the same sufferings are being accomplished among your brotherhood in the world.
5:10 但那全般恩典的神，就是那曾在基督耶稣里召你们进入祂永远荣耀的，等你们暂受苦难之后，必要亲自成全你们，坚固你们，加强你们，给你们立定
根基。
But the God of all grace, He who has called you into His eternal glory in Christ Jesus, after you have suffered a little while, will Himself perfect, establish,
strengthen, and ground you.
5:11 愿荣耀权能归与祂，直到永永远远。阿们。
To Him be the glory and the might forever and ever. Amen.
5:12 我借着我所看为忠信的弟兄西拉，略略的写了这信给你们，劝勉你们，又充分见证这是神真实的恩典；你们务要进入这恩典，并在其中站住。
Through Silvanus, the faithful brother, as I account him, I have written to you briefly, exhorting and testifying fully that this is the true grace of God; enter into this
grace and stand in it.
5:13 在巴比伦同蒙拣选的问你们安，我儿子马可也问你们安。
The co- chosen in Babylon and Mark my son greet you.
5:14 你们要用爱心的亲嘴彼此问安。愿平安归与你们凡在基督里的人。
Greet one another with a kiss of love. Peace to you all who are in Christ.
1164
61. 彼得后书 2 Peter
彼得后书 2 Peter 第 1 章
1:1 耶稣基督的奴仆和使徒西门彼得，写信给那些因我们的神和救主，耶稣基督的义，与我们分得同样宝贵之信的人：
Simon Peter, a slave and apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have been allotted faith equally precious as ours in the righteousness of our God and Savior, Jesus
Christ:
1:2 愿恩典与平安，因你们充分认识神和我们的主耶稣，繁增的归与你们。
Grace to you and peace be multiplied in the full knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord;
1:3 神的神能，借着我们充分认识那用祂自己的荣耀和美德呼召我们的，已将一切关于生命和敬虔的事赐给我们。
Seeing that His divine power has granted to us all things which relate to life and godliness, through the full knowledge of Him who has called us by His own glory
and virtue,
1:4 藉这荣耀和美德，祂已将又宝贵又极大的应许赐给我们，叫你们既逃离世上从情欲来的败坏，就借着这些应许，得有分于神的性情。
Through which He has granted to us precious and exceedingly great promises that through these you might become partakers of the divine nature, having
escaped the corruption which is in the world by lust.
1:5 正因这缘故，你们要分外殷勤，在你们的信上，充足的供应美德，在美德上供应知识，
And for this very reason also, adding all diligence, supply bountifully in your faith virtue; and in virtue, knowledge;
1:6 在知识上供应节制，在节制上供应忍耐，在忍耐上供应敬虔，
And in knowledge, self-control; and in self-control, endurance; and in endurance, godliness;
1:7 在敬虔上供应弟兄相爱，在弟兄相爱上供应爱。
And in godliness, brotherly love; and in brotherly love, love.
1:8 因为这几样存在你们里面，且不断增多，就必将你们构成非闲懒不结果子的，以致充分的认识我们的主耶稣基督。
For these things, existing in you and abounding, constitute you neither idle nor unfruitful unto the full knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1:9 那没有这几样的，就是眼瞎、近视，忘了他旧日的罪已经得了洁净。
For he in whom these things are not present is blind, being shortsighted, having forgotten the cleansing of his past sins.
1:10 所以弟兄们，应当更加殷勤，使你们所蒙的呼召和拣选坚定不移；你们行这几样，就永不失脚。
Therefore, brothers, be the more diligent to make your calling and selection firm, for doing these things you shall by no means ever stumble.
1:11 这样，你们就必得着丰富充足的供应，以进入我们主和救主耶稣基督永远的国。
For in this way the entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ will be richly and bountifully supplied to you.
1:12 所以，你们虽已知道这些事，且在现有的真理上得了坚固，我还要常常提醒你们；
Therefore I will be ready always to remind you concerning these things, even though you know them and have been established in the present truth.
1:13 我认为趁我还在这帐幕的时候，以提醒激发你们，是正当的，
And I consider it right, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up by a reminder,
1:14 知道我脱去这帐幕的时候快到了，正如我们主耶稣基督所指示我的。
Knowing that the putting off of my tabernacle is imminent, even as also our Lord Jesus Christ has made clear to me.
1:15 不仅如此，我也要竭力，使你们在我去世以后，时常记念这些事。
Moreover I will also be diligent that you may be able, after my exodus, to bring these things to mind at all times.
1:16 我们曾将我们主耶稣基督的大能，和祂的来临告诉你们，并不是随从乖巧捏造的虚构无稽之事，乃是作祂威荣的亲眼见证人。
For we did not follow cleverly devised myths when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we became eyewitnesses of that
One's majesty.
1:17 因为祂从父神领受尊贵荣耀的时候，从显赫的荣耀中，有这样的声音向祂发出：这是我的爱子，我所喜悦的。
For He received from God the Father honor and glory, a voice such as this being borne to Him by the magnificent glory: This is My Son, My Beloved, in whom I
delight.
1:18 我们同祂在圣山的时候，亲自听见这声音从天上发出。
And this voice we heard being borne out of heaven while we were with Him in the holy mountain.
1:19 我们并有申言者更确定的话，你们留意这话，如同留意照在暗处的灯，直等到天发亮，晨星在你们心里出现，你们就作得好了；
And we have the prophetic word made more firm, to which you do well to give heed as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning
star rises in your hearts;
1:20 第一要知道，经上所有的预言，都不是人自己的见解；
Knowing this first, that no prophecy of Scripture is of one's own interpretation;
1:21 因为预言从来没有发自人的意思，乃是人被圣灵推动，从神说出来的。
For no prophecy was ever borne by the will of man, but men spoke from God while being borne by the Holy Spirit.
彼得后书 2 Peter 第 2 章
2:1 从前在百姓中有假申言者，照样，在你们中间，也必有假教师，偷着引进毁坏人的异端，连买他们的主也不承认，自取速速的毁坏。
But there arose also false prophets among the people, as also among you there will be false teachers, who will secretly bring in destructive heresies, even
denying the Master who bought them, bringing upon themselves swift destruction.
2:2 也有许多人将要随从他们的邪荡，叫真理的路因他们的缘故被毁谤；
And many will follow their licentiousness, because of whom the way of the truth will be reviled.
2:3 他们因着贪婪，要用捏造的言语，在你们身上取利；他们的审判，自古以来就不松懈，他们的毁坏也必速速来到。
And in covetousness, with fabricated words, they will make merchandise of you, for whom the judgment of old is not idle, and their destruction does not slumber.
2:4 就是天使犯了罪，神也没有宽容，反而把他们丢在他他拉里，交在幽暗坑中，拘留着等候审判；
For if God did not spare the angels who sinned but delivered them to gloomy pits, having cast them down to Tartarus, they being kept for judgment;
2:5 神也没有宽容上古的世界，曾叫洪水临到那不敬虔的世界，却保守了传扬义的挪亚一家八口；
1165
And did not spare the ancient world but guarded Noah, a herald of righteousness, with seven others, when He brought a flood upon the world of the ungodly;
2:6 又判定了所多玛、蛾摩拉的罪，将二城毁灭，焚烧成灰，给那些想要过不敬虔生活的人立为鉴戒；
And having reduced to ashes the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, condemned them to ruin, having set them as an example to those who intend to live an
ungodly life,
2:7 只搭救了那常为不法之人的淫行抑郁的义人罗得；
And rescued righteous Lot, who had been oppressed by the licentious manner of life of the lawless
2:8 （因为那义人定居在他们中间，看见听见不法的行为，他的义魂就天天感到痛苦。）
(For that righteous man, who settled down among them, in seeing and hearing tormented his righteous soul day after day with their lawless works);
2:9 主知道搭救敬虔的人脱离试炼，把不义的人留在刑罚之下，等候审判的日子；
The Lord knows how to deliver the godly out of trial and how to keep the unrighteous under punishment for the day of judgment,
2:10 对那些放纵污秽的情欲，随从肉体，并轻慢主治者的人，更是如此。他们胆大任性，毁谤在尊位的也不战惊；
And especially those who go after the flesh in the lust for defilement and despise lordship. Daring, self-willed, they do not tremble while reviling dignities;
2:11 就是天使，虽然力量、权能更大，还不用毁谤的判辞，在主面前告他们。
Whereas angels, though they are greater in strength and power, do not bring a reviling judgment against them before the Lord.
2:12 但这些人好像没有理性的畜类，生来本性是为着被捉拿并毁坏的；他们毁谤所不晓得的事，正在败坏人的时候，自己必遭毁坏；
But these, like animals without reason, born natural for capture and destruction, reviling in things of which they are ignorant, will also in their corrupting of others
be destroyed;
2:13 行的不义，就得了不义的工价；他们以白昼奢侈为宴乐，成为斑点和瑕疵，与你们一同坐席，以自己的诡诈为奢乐；
Suffering unrighteousness as the wages of unrighteousness; considering luxury in the day to be pleasure; spots and blemishes, reveling in their deceits while
feasting together with you;
2:14 满眼是淫色，止不住犯罪；引诱那不坚固的人，心中习惯了贪婪，是被咒诅的儿女；
Having eyes full of adultery and not ceasing from sin; enticing unstable souls, having a heart exercised for covetousness, children of curse.
2:15 离弃正路而走迷了，随从比珥之子巴兰的路；巴兰曾经贪爱不义的工价，
Forsaking the straight way, they have gone astray, following the way of Balaam, the son of Beor, who loved the wages of unrighteousness
2:16 为自己的过犯且受了责备；那不能说话的驴，竟以人声发言，拦阻了申言者的狂妄。
But had reproof for his own transgression: a dumb beast of burden, uttering with a man's voice, restrained the madness of the prophet.
2:17 这些人是无水的井，是暴风催逼的雾气，有黑暗的幽冥为他们存留。
These are springs without water and mists driven by a storm, for whom the gloom of darkness is kept.
2:18 因为他们说虚妄矜夸的大话，凭肉体的情欲，用邪荡的事，引诱那些刚能逃脱在错谬中生活者的人，
For uttering great swelling words of vanity, they entice by lusts of the flesh, with licentiousness, those who are barely escaping from them who live in error;
2:19 应许他们自由，自己却是败坏的奴仆，因为人被谁制伏，就是谁的奴仆。
Promising freedom to them, while they themselves are slaves of corruption; for by whom anyone has been defeated, by this one he has been enslaved.
2:20 倘若他们因认识主和救主耶稣基督，得以逃脱世上的污秽，却又在其中被缠住制伏，他们末后的景况，就比先前更不好了。
For if, having escaped the defilements of the world by the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ but having again been entangled in these, they are
defeated, the last state has become worse for them than the first.
2:21 他们认识义路，竟转离所传授给他们神圣的诫命，倒不如不认识为妙。
For it would be better for them not to have known the way of righteousness than, knowing it, to turn back from the holy commandment delivered to them.
2:22 俗语说得真对，狗所吐的，它转过来又吃；猪洗净了，又到泥里去滚。这话在他们身上发生了。
It has happened to them according to the true proverb: The dog has turned to its own vomit, and the washed sow to wallowing in the mud.
彼得后书 2 Peter 第 3 章
3:1 亲爱的，我现在写给你们的是第二封信；在这两封信中，我都是以提醒激发你们纯诚的心思，
This second letter, beloved, I now write to you; in them both I stir up your sincere mind with a reminder,
3:2 叫你们记念那借着圣申言者预先所说的话，和你们的使徒所传主和救主的命令。
So that you would remember the words spoken before by the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and Savior preached by your apostles;
3:3 第一要知道，在末后的日子，必有好讥诮的人，带着讥诮而来，随从自己的私欲而行，并说，
Knowing this first, that in the last of days mockers will come with mocking, going on according to their own lusts
3:4 主来临的应许在那里？因为从列祖睡了以来，万物依然存在，如同从创造之初一样。
And saying, Where is the promise of His coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue in this way from the beginning of creation.
3:5 他们故意不理这件事，就是从太古凭神的话有了诸天，和出于水并借着水存立的地。
For this escapes them by their own choosing, that by the word of God the heavens were of old and the earth was compacted out of water and through water,
3:6 借着这些水，当时的世界被水淹没，就毁灭了；
Through which the world then, being flooded with water, perished.
3:7 但现在的诸天和地，还是凭着同样的话保留着，直留到不敬虔的人受审判遭毁坏的日子，给火焚烧。
But the heavens and the earth now, by the same word, have been stored up for fire, being kept unto the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men.
3:8 亲爱的，这一件事你们却不可不理，就是在主一日如千年，千年如一日。
But do not let this one thing escape you, beloved, that with the Lord one day is like a thousand years and a thousand years like one day.
3:9 主所应许的，祂并不耽延，像有些人以为祂耽延一样；其实祂乃是宽容你们，不愿任何人遭毁坏，乃愿人人都趋前悔改。
The Lord does not delay regarding the promise, as some count delay, but is long-suffering toward you, not intending that any perish but that all advance to
repentance.
3:10 只是主的日子要像贼一样来到；在那日，诸天必轰然一声的过去，所有的元素都要被焚烧而销化，地和其上的工程也都要烧尽了。
But the day of the Lord will come as a thief, in which the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the elements, burning with intense heat, will be dissolved, and
the earth and the works in it will be burned up.
3:11 这一切既然都要如此销化，你们该当怎样为人，有圣别的生活和敬虔，
1166
Since all these things are to be thus dissolved, what kind of persons ought you to be in holy manner of life and godliness,
3:12 期待并催促神的日子来临？因着那日子的来临，诸天被火烧就销化了，所有的元素都要被焚烧而熔化。
Expecting and hastening the coming of the day of God, on account of which the heavens, being on fire, will be dissolved, and the elements, burning with intense
heat, are to be melted away?
3:13 但我们照祂的应许，期待新天新地，有义居住在其中。
But according to His promise we are expecting new heavens and a new earth, in which righteousness dwells.
3:14 所以，亲爱的，你们既期待这些事，就当殷勤，得在平安中给主看为无斑点、无瑕疵的；
Therefore, beloved, since you expect these things, be diligent to be found by Him in peace without spot and without blemish;
3:15 并且要以我们主的恒忍为得救的机会，就像我们所亲爱的弟兄保罗，照着所赐给他的智慧，也写了信给你们；
And count the long-suffering of our Lord to be salvation, even as also our beloved brother Paul, according to the wisdom given to him, wrote to you,
3:16 他在一切的信上也都是讲论这些事；信中有些是难以明白的，那无学识不坚固的人曲解，如曲解其余的经书一样，就自取毁坏。
As also in all his letters, speaking in them concerning these things, in which some things are hard to understand, which the unlearned and unstable twist, as also
the rest of the Scriptures, to their own destruction.
3:17 所以，亲爱的，你们既然预先知道了，就当防备，免得被不法之人的错谬带走，就从自己坚固的地步上坠落。
You therefore, beloved, since you know these things beforehand, be on your guard lest being carried away by the error of the lawless, you fall from your own
steadfastness.
3:18 你们却要在我们的主和救主耶稣基督的恩典和知识上长大。愿荣耀归与祂，从现今直到永远之日。阿们。
But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To Him be the glory both now and unto the day of eternity. Amen.
1167
62. 约翰一书 1 John
约翰一书 1 John 第 1 章
1:1 论到那从起初原有的生命之话，就是我们所听见过的，我们亲眼所看见过的，我们所注视过，我们的手也摸过的；
That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we beheld and our hands handled, concerning the Word of
life
1:2 （这生命已经显现出来，我们也看见过，现在又作见证，将原与父同在，且显现与我们那永远的生命传与你们；）
(And the life was manifested, and we have seen and testify and report to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was manifested to us);
1:3 我们将所看见并听见的，也传与你们，使你们也可以与我们有交通；而且我们的交通，又是与父并与祂儿子耶稣基督所有的。
That which we have seen and heard we report also to you that you also may have fellowship with us, and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with His
Son Jesus Christ.
1:4 我们写这些事，是要叫我们的喜乐得以满足。
And these things we write that our joy may be made full.
1:5 神就是光，在祂里面毫无黑暗；这是我们从祂所听见，现在又报给你们的信息。
And this is the message which we have heard from Him and announce to you, that God is light and in Him is no darkness at all.
1:6 我们若说我们与神有交通，却在黑暗里行，就是说谎话，不行真理了；
If we say that we have fellowship with Him and yet walk in the darkness, we lie and are not practicing the truth;
1:7 但我们若在光中行，如同神在光中，就彼此有交通，祂儿子耶稣的血也洗净我们一切的罪。
But if we walk in the light as He is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus His Son cleanses us from every sin.
1:8 我们若说自己没有罪，便是自欺，真理就不在我们里面了。
If we say that we do not have sin, we are deceiving ourselves, and the truth is not in us.
1:9 我们若认自己的罪，神是信实的，是公义的，必要赦免我们的罪，洗净我们一切的不义。
If we confess our sins, He is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
1:10 我们若说自己没有犯过罪，便是以神为说谎的，祂的话就不在我们里面了。
If we say that we have not sinned, we make Him a liar, and His word is not in us.
约翰一书 1 John 第 2 章
2:1 我的孩子们，我将这些事写给你们，是要叫你们不犯罪。若有人犯罪，我们有一位与父同在的辩护者，就是那义者耶稣基督；
My little children, these things I write to you that you may not sin. And if anyone sins, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the Righteous;
2:2 祂为我们的罪，作了平息的祭物，不是单为我们的罪，也是为所有的世人。
And He Himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only but also for those of the whole world.
2:3 我们若遵守祂的诫命，在此就知道我们是认识祂。
And in this we know that we know Him, if we keep His commandments.
2:4 那说我认识祂，却不遵守祂诫命的，便是说谎的，真理也不在这人里面了；
He who says, I know Him, and does not keep His commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in this one;
2:5 然而凡遵守祂话的，神的爱在这人里面实在是得了成全。在此我们就知道我们是在祂里面。
But whoever keeps His word, truly in this one the love of God has been perfected. In this we know that we are in Him.
2:6 那说自己住在祂里面的，就该照祂所行的去行。
He who says he abides in Him ought himself also to walk even as He walked.
2:7 亲爱的，我写给你们的，不是一条新诫命，乃是一条你们从起初就有的旧诫命，这旧诫命就是你们所听见的话。
Beloved, I am not writing a new commandment to you but an old commandment, which you have had from the beginning; the old commandment is the word
which you heard.
2:8 再者，我写给你们的是一条新诫命，这在主并在你们都是真的；因为黑暗渐渐过去，真光已经照耀。
Yet again a new commandment I am writing to you, which is true in Him and in you because the darkness is passing away and the true light is already shining.
2:9 那说自己在光中，却恨他弟兄的，到如今还是在黑暗里。
He who says he is in the light and yet hates his brother is in the darkness until now.
2:10 那爱他弟兄的，就住在光中，在他并没有绊跌的缘由；
He who loves his brother abides in the light, and there is no cause of stumbling in him;
2:11 但那恨他弟兄的，是在黑暗里，且在黑暗里行，也不知道往那里去，因为黑暗弄瞎了他的眼睛。
But he who hates his brother is in the darkness and walks in the darkness and does not know where he is going, because the darkness has blinded his eyes.
2:12 孩子们，我写信给你们，因为你们的罪因着祂的名得了赦免。
I write to you, little children, because your sins have been forgiven you because of His name.
2:13 父老们，我写信给你们，因为你们认识那从起初原有的。青年人，我写信给你们，因为你们胜了那恶者。小孩子们，我写信给你们，因为你们认识父。
I write to you, fathers, because you know Him who is from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I write to you,
young children, because you know the Father.
2:14 父老们，我刚写信给你们，因为你们认识那从起初原有的。青年人，我刚写信给你们，因为你们刚强，神的话住在你们里面，你们也胜了那恶者。
I have written to you, fathers, because you know Him who is from the beginning. I have written to you, young men, because you are strong and the word of God
abides in you and you have overcome the evil one.
2:15 不要爱世界，和世界上的事。人若爱世界，爱父的心就不在他里面了；
Do not love the world nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, love for the Father is not in him;
2:16 因为凡世界上的事，就是肉体的情欲、眼目的情欲、并今生的骄傲，都不是出于父，乃是出于世界。
Because all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the vainglory of life, is not of the Father but is of the world.
2:17 这世界和其上的情欲，正在过去；惟独实行神旨意的，永远长存。
1168
And the world is passing away, and its lust, but he who does the will of God abides forever.
2:18 小孩子们，如今是末时了；你们曾听见，那敌基督的要来，现在已经有好些敌基督的出来了，从此我们就知道如今是末时了。
Young children, it is the last hour; and even as you heard that antichrist is coming, even now many antichrists have come; whereby we know that it is the last
hour.
2:19 他们从我们中间出去，却不是属我们的；若是属我们的，就会仍旧与我们同在；但他们出去，是要显明他们都不是属我们的。
They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would have remained with us; but they went out that they might be manifested
that they all are not of us.
2:20 你们有从那圣者来的膏油涂抹，并且你们众人都知道。
And you have an anointing from the Holy One, and all of you know.
2:21 我刚写信给你们，不是因你们不晓得真理，正是因为你们晓得，又因为没有虚谎是出于真理的。
I have not written to you because you do not know the truth, but because you know it and because no lie is of the truth.
2:22 谁是说谎的？不是那否认耶稣是基督的么？否认父与子的，这就是敌基督的。
Who is the liar if not he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? This is the antichrist, the one who denies the Father and the Son.
2:23 凡否认子的就没有父，承认子的连父也有了。
Everyone who denies the Son does not have the Father either; he who confesses the Son has the Father also.
2:24 至于你们，务要让那从起初所听见的住在你们里面；那从起初所听见的若住在你们里面，你们也就住在子里面，并住在父里面。
As for you, that which you heard from the beginning, let it abide in you. If that which you heard from the beginning abides in you, you also will abide in the Son
and in the Father.
2:25 祂所应许我们的，就是那永远的生命。
And this is the promise which He Himself promised us, the eternal life.
2:26 我刚将这些话写给你们，是指着那些迷惑你们的人说的。
These things I have written to you concerning those who lead you astray.
2:27 你们从祂所领受的膏油涂抹，住在你们里面，并不需要人教导你们，乃有祂的膏油涂抹，在凡事上教导你们；这膏油涂抹是真实的，不是虚谎的，你
们要按这膏油涂抹所教导你们的，住在祂里面。
And as for you, the anointing which you have received from Him abides in you, and you have no need that anyone teach you; but as His anointing teaches you
concerning all things and is true and is not a lie, and even as it has taught you, abide in Him.
2:28 现在，孩子们，你们要住在主里面；这样，祂若显现，我们就可以坦然无惧，当祂来临的时候，也不至于蒙羞离开祂。
And now, little children, abide in Him, so that if He is manifested, we may have boldness and not be put to shame from Him at His coming.
2:29 你们若晓得祂是义的，就当知道凡行义的人也都是从祂生的。
If you know that He is righteous, you know that everyone who practices righteousness also has been begotten of Him.
约翰一书 1 John 第 3 章
3:1 你们看，父赐给我们的是何等的爱，使我们得称为神的儿女，我们也真是祂的儿女。世人所以不认识我们，是因未曾认识祂。
Behold what manner of love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God; and we are. Because of this the world does not know us,
because it did not know Him.
3:2 亲爱的，我们现在是神的儿女，将来如何，还未显明；但我们晓得祂若显现，我们必要像祂；因为我们必要看见祂，正如祂所是的。
Beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not yet been manifested what we will be. We know that if He is manifested, we will be like Him because we will
see Him even as He is.
3:3 凡向祂有这盼望的，就洁净自己，正如祂是洁净的一样。
And everyone who has this hope set on Him purifies himself, even as He is pure.
3:4 凡犯罪的，也行不法；罪就是不法。
Everyone who practices sin practices lawlessness also, and sin is lawlessness.
3:5 你们晓得祂曾显现，为要除去罪；在祂里面并没有罪。
And you know that He was manifested that He might take away sins; and sin is not in Him.
3:6 凡住在祂里面的，就不犯罪；凡犯罪的，是未曾看见祂，也未曾认识祂。
Everyone who abides in Him does not sin; everyone who sins has not seen Him or known Him.
3:7 孩子们，不要让人迷惑你们，行义的人才是义的，正如祂是义的一样；
Little children, let no one lead you astray; he who practices righteousness is righteous, even as He is righteous;
3:8 犯罪的是出于魔鬼，因为魔鬼从起初就犯罪。为此，神的儿子显现出来，是要消除魔鬼的作为。
He who practices sin is of the devil, because the devil has sinned from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that He might destroy the
works of the devil.
3:9 凡从神生的，就不犯罪，因为神的种子住在他里面；他也不能犯罪，因为他是从神生的。
Everyone who has been begotten of God does not practice sin, because His seed abides in him; and he cannot sin, because he has been begotten of God.
3:10 在此，神的儿女和魔鬼的儿女就显出来了。凡不行义的，就不是出于神；不爱他弟兄的也是如此。
In this the children of God and the children of the devil are manifest. Everyone who does not practice righteousness is not of God, neither he who does not love his
brother.
3:11 我们应当彼此相爱，这就是你们从起初所听见的信息；
For this is the message which you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another,
3:12 不要像该隐，他是出于那恶者，又杀了他的兄弟。为什么杀了他？因为自己的行为是恶的，兄弟的行为是义的。
Not as Cain was of the evil one and slew his brother. And for what reason did he slay him? Because his works were evil, and his brother's, righteous.
3:13 弟兄们，世人若恨你们，不要以为希奇。
Do not marvel, brothers, if the world hates you.
3:14 我们因为爱弟兄，就晓得是已经出死入生了。不爱弟兄的，仍住在死中。
We know that we have passed out of death into life because we love the brothers. He who does not love abides in death.
1169
3:15 凡恨他弟兄的，就是杀人的；你们晓得凡杀人的，没有永远的生命住在他里面。
Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him.
3:16 主为我们舍命，在此我们就知道何为爱；我们也当为弟兄舍命。
In this we know love, that He laid down His life on our behalf, and we ought to lay down our lives on behalf of the brothers.
3:17 凡有世上养生之物的，看见弟兄有需要，却向他塞住慈心，神的爱怎能住在他里面？
But whoever has the livelihood of the world and sees that his brother has need and shuts up his affections from him, how does the love of God abide in him?
3:18 孩子们，我们相爱，不要只在言语和舌头上，总要在行为和真诚上。
Little children, let us not love in word nor in tongue but in deed and truthfulness.
3:19 在此就知道，我们是属真理的，并且我们在祂面前可以安心；
And in this we will know that we are of the truth, and we will persuade our heart before Him,
3:20 我们的心若责备我们，神比我们的心大，一切事祂都知道。
Because if our heart blames us, it is because God is greater than our heart and knows all things.
3:21 亲爱的，我们的心若不责备我们，我们就可以向神坦然无惧了；
Beloved, if our heart does not blame us, we have boldness toward God;
3:22 并且我们不论求什么，就从祂得着；因为我们遵守祂的诫命，也行祂看为可喜悦的事。
And whatever we ask we receive from Him because we keep His commandments and do the things that are pleasing in His sight.
3:23 神的诫命就是叫我们信祂儿子耶稣基督的名，并且照祂所赐给我们的诫命彼此相爱。
And this is His commandment, that we believe in the name of His Son Jesus Christ and love one another, even as He gave a commandment to us.
3:24 遵守神诫命的，就住在神里面，神也住在他里面。在此我们就知道神住在我们里面，乃是由于祂所赐给我们的那灵。
And he who keeps His commandments abides in Him, and He in him. And in this we know that He abides in us, by the Spirit whom He gave to us.
约翰一书 1 John 第 4 章
4:1 亲爱的，一切的灵，你们不可都信，总要试证那些灵是出于神的不是；因为有许多假申言者已经出来，进到世界里了。
Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but prove the spirits whether they are of God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world.
4:2 凡灵承认耶稣基督是在肉体里来的，就是出于神的；在此你们可以认出神的灵来。
In this you know the Spirit of God: Every spirit which confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God,
4:3 凡灵不承认耶稣，就不是出于神的，这是那敌基督者的灵；你们从前听见这灵要来，现在已经在世界上了。
And every spirit which does not confess Jesus is not of God; and this is the spirit of the antichrist, of which you have heard that it is coming and now is already in
the world.
4:4 孩子们，你们是出于神的，并且胜了他们；因为那在你们里面的，比那在世界上的更大。
You are of God, little children; and you have overcome them because greater is He who is in you than he who is in the world.
4:5 他们是出于世界的；所以他们的讲说乃是出于世界，世人也听从他们。
They are of the world; therefore they speak out of the world, and the world hears them.
4:6 我们是出于神的；认识神的就听从我们，不出于神的就不听从我们；从此我们可以认出真理的灵和谬妄的灵来。
We are of God; he who knows God hears us; he who is not of God does not hear us. From this we know the Spirit of truth and the spirit of deception.
4:7 亲爱的，我们应当彼此相爱，因为爱是出于神的；凡爱弟兄的，都是从神生的，并且认识神。
Beloved, let us love one another, because love is of God, and everyone who loves has been begotten of God and knows God.
4:8 不爱弟兄的，未曾认识神，因为神就是爱。
He who does not love has not known God, because God is love.
4:9 神差祂的独生子到世上来，使我们借着祂得生并活着，在此神的爱就向我们显明了。
In this the love of God was manifested among us, that God sent His only begotten Son into the world that we might have life and live through Him.
4:10 不是我们爱神，乃是神爱我们，差祂的儿子，为我们的罪作了平息的祭物，在此就是爱了。
Herein is love, not that we have loved God but that He loved us and sent His Son as a propitiation for our sins.
4:11 亲爱的，神既是这样爱我们，我们也当彼此相爱。
Beloved, if God has loved us in this way, we also ought to love one another.
4:12 从来没有人见过神；我们若彼此相爱，神就住在我们里面，祂的爱也在我们里面得了成全。
No one has beheld God at any time; if we love one another, God abides in us, and His love is perfected in us.
4:13 神已将祂的灵赐给我们，在此就知道我们住在祂里面，祂也住在我们里面。
In this we know that we abide in Him and He in us, that He has given to us of His Spirit.
4:14 父差子作世人的救主，这是我们所看见，现在又作见证的。
And we have beheld and testify that the Father has sent the Son as the Savior of the world.
4:15 凡承认耶稣是神儿子的，神就住在他里面，他也住在神里面。
Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him and he in God.
4:16 神在我们身上的爱，我们也知道也信。神就是爱，住在爱里面的，就住在神里面，神也住在他里面。
And we know and have believed the love which God has in us. God is love, and he who abides in love abides in God and God abides in him.
4:17 在此，爱在我们便得了成全，使我们在审判的日子，可以坦然无惧；因为祂如何，我们在这世上也如何。
In this has love been perfected with us, that we may have boldness in the day of the judgment because even as He is, so also are we in this world.
4:18 爱里没有惧怕，完全的爱把惧怕驱除，因为惧怕含有刑罚，惧怕的人在爱里未得成全。
There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear because fear has punishment, and he who fears has not been perfected in love.
4:19 我们爱，因为神先爱我们。
We love because He first loved us.
4:20 人若说，我爱神，却恨他的弟兄，就是说谎的；不爱他所看见的弟兄，就不能爱没有看见的神。
If anyone says, I love God, and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not love his brother, whom he has seen, cannot love God, whom he has not seen.
4:21 爱神的，也当爱他的弟兄，这是我们从祂所受的诫命。
1170
And this commandment we have from Him, that he who loves God love his brother also.
约翰一书 1 John 第 5 章
5:1 凡信耶稣是基督的，都是从神生的；凡爱那生他的，也爱从祂生的。
Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been begotten of God, and everyone who loves Him who has begotten loves him also who has been begotten
of Him.
5:2 我们若爱神，并行祂的诫命，在此就知道我们爱神的儿女。
In this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and do His commandments.
5:3 我们遵守神的诫命，这就是爱祂了；并且祂的诫命不是难担的；
For this is the love of God, that we keep His commandments; and His commandments are not burdensome.
5:4 因为凡从神生之物，就胜过世界，胜过世界的，就是我们的信。
For everything that has been begotten of God overcomes the world; and this is the victory which has overcome the world -- our faith.
5:5 胜过世界的是谁？不就是那信耶稣是神儿子的么？
And who is he who overcomes the world except him who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
5:6 这借着水与血来的，就是耶稣基督；不是单凭着水，乃是凭着水，又凭着血；并且作见证的就是那灵，因为那灵就是实际。
This is He who came through water and blood, Jesus Christ; not in the water only, but in the water and in the blood; and the Spirit is He who testifies, because the
Spirit is the reality.
5:7 作见证的原来有三，
For there are three who testify,
5:8 就是那灵、水与血，这三样也都归于一。
The Spirit and the water and the blood, and the three are unto the one thing.
5:9 我们若领受人的见证，神的见证更大，因为这是神为祂儿子所作的见证。
If we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater, because this is the testimony of God that He has testified concerning His Son.
5:10 信入神儿子的，就有这见证在他里面。不信神的，就是将神当作说谎的，因他不信入神为祂儿子所作的见证。
He who believes into the Son of God has the testimony in himself; he who does not believe God has made Him a liar because he has not believed in the
testimony which God has testified concerning His Son.
5:11 这见证就是神赐给我们永远的生命，这生命也是在祂儿子里面。
And this is the testimony, that God gave to us eternal life and this life is in His Son.
5:12 人有了神的儿子，就有生命；没有神的儿子，就没有生命。
He who has the Son has the life; he who does not have the Son of God does not have the life.
5:13 我将这些话写给你们信入神儿子之名的人，要叫你们晓得自己有永远的生命。
I have written these things to you that you may know that you have eternal life, to you who believe into the name of the Son of God.
5:14 我们若照祂的旨意求什么，祂就听我们；这是我们向着祂所存坦然无惧的心。
And this is the boldness which we have toward Him, that if we ask anything according to His will, He hears us.
5:15 我们若知道祂听我们一切所求的，就知道我们所求于祂的无不得着。
And if we know that He hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests which we have asked from Him.
5:16 人若看见他的弟兄犯了不至于死的罪，就当为他祈求，将生命赐给他，就是给那些犯了不至于死之罪的。有至于死的罪，我不说当为那罪祈求。
If anyone sees his brother sinning a sin not unto death, he shall ask and he will give life to him, to those sinning not unto death. There is a sin unto death; I do not
say that he should make request concerning that.
5:17 一切的不义都是罪，也有不至于死的罪。
All unrighteousness is sin, and there is sin not unto death.
5:18 我们晓得凡从神生的都不犯罪，那从神生的，保守自己，那恶者也就不摸他。
We know that everyone who is begotten of God does not sin, but he who has been begotten of God keeps himself, and the evil one does not touch him.
5:19 我们晓得我们是属神的，而整个世界都卧在那恶者里面。
We know that we are of God, and the whole world lies in the evil one.
5:20 我们也晓得神的儿子已经来到，且将悟性赐给我们，使我们可以认识那位真实的；我们也在那位真实的里面，就是在祂儿子耶稣基督里面。这是真神，
也是永远的生命。
And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us an understanding that we might know Him who is true; and we are in Him who is true, in His Son
Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life.
5:21 孩子们，你们要保守自己，远避偶像。
Little children, guard yourselves from idols.
1171
63. 约翰二书 2 John
约翰二书 2 John 第 1 章
1:1 作长老的写信给蒙拣选的夫人和她的儿女，就是我真实所爱的；不单我爱，也是一切认识真理之人所爱的；
The elder to the chosen lady and to her children, whom I love in truthfulness, and not only I but also all those who know the truth,
1:2 爱你们是因真理的缘故，这真理存在我们里面，也必永远与我们同在。
For the sake of the truth which abides in us and will be with us forever:
1:3 恩典、怜悯、平安从父神，并从父的儿子耶稣基督，在真理和爱中，必与我们同在。
Grace, mercy, peace will be with us from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love.
1:4 我看到你的儿女，有照着我们从父所受的诫命，在真理中行事为人的，就大大欢乐。
I rejoiced greatly that I have found some of your children walking in truth, even as we received commandment from the Father.
1:5 夫人阿，我现在请求你，我们要彼此相爱；我写给你的并不是一条新诫命，乃是我们从起初就有的诫命。
And now I ask you, lady, not as writing a new commandment to you but that which we have had from the beginning, that we love one another.
1:6 我们要照祂的诫命行，这就是爱；你们要行在爱中，这就是诫命，正如你们从起初所听见的。
And this is love, that we walk according to His commandments. This is the commandment, even as you heard from the beginning, that you walk in love.
1:7 因为有许多迷惑人的已经出来，进到世界里，他们不承认耶稣基督是在肉体里来的。这就是那迷惑人的和敌基督的。
For many deceivers went out into the world, those who do not confess Jesus Christ coming in the flesh. This is the deceiver and the antichrist.
1:8 你们要小心，不要失去我们所已经作成的，乃要得着满足的赏赐。
Look to yourselves that you do not lose the things which we wrought, but that you may receive a full reward.
1:9 凡越过基督的教训，不留于其中的，就没有神；留于这教训中的，这人就有父又有子。
Everyone who goes beyond and does not abide in the teaching of Christ does not have God; he who abides in the teaching, he has both the Father and the Son.
1:10 若有人到你们那里，不是传讲这教训，不要接他到家里，也不要对他说，愿你喜乐；
If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house, and do not say to him, Rejoice!
1:11 因为对他说，愿你喜乐的，就在他的恶行上有分。
For he who says to him, Rejoice, shares in his evil works.
1:12 我还有许多事要写给你们，却不愿意用纸墨写出来；但盼望到你们那里，与你们当面交谈，使我们的喜乐得以满足。
Though I have many things to write to you, I do not want to do so with paper and ink, but I am hoping to be with you and to speak face to face that our joy may
be made full.
1:13 你那蒙拣选之姊妹的儿女都问你安。
The children of your chosen sister greet you.
1172
64. 约翰三书 3 John
约翰三书 3 John 第 1 章
1:1 作长老的写信给亲爱的该犹，就是我真实所爱的。
The elder to Gaius the beloved, whom I love in truthfulness.
1:2 亲爱的，我愿你凡事兴盛，身体健康，正如你的魂兴盛一样。
Beloved, concerning all things I wish that you may prosper and be in health, even as your soul prospers.
1:3 有弟兄来见证你持守真理，就是你在真理中行事为人，我就大大欢乐。
For I rejoiced greatly at the brothers' coming and testifying to your steadfastness in the truth, even as you walk in truth.
1:4 我听见我的儿女们在真理中行事为人，我的喜乐就没有比这个更大的。
I have no greater joy than these things, that I hear that my children are walking in the truth.
1:5 亲爱的，凡你向作客旅之弟兄所行的，都是忠信的；
Beloved, you do faithfully in whatever you have wrought for the brothers, and this for strangers,
1:6 他们在召会面前见证了你的爱；你照着与神相配的，送他们往前行，就作得好；
Who testified to your love before the church; whom you will do well to send forward in a manner worthy of God;
1:7 因他们是为那名出外，对于外邦人一无所取。
For on behalf of the Name they went out, taking nothing from the Gentiles.
1:8 所以我们应该款待、供应这样的人，使我们能成为在真理上的同工。
We therefore ought to support such ones that we may become fellow workers in the truth.
1:9 我曾略略的写信给召会；但那在他们中间好为首的丢特腓，不接待我们。
I wrote something to the church; but Diotrephes, who loves to be first among them, does not receive us.
1:10 所以我若去，必要提起他所行的事，就是他用恶言妄论我们；还不以此为足，他自己不接待弟兄，有人愿意接待，他也禁止，并且把他们赶出召会。
For this reason, if I come, I will bring to remembrance his works which he does, babbling against us with evil words; and not being satisfied with these, neither
does he himself receive the brothers, and those intending to do so he forbids and casts out of the church.
1:11 亲爱的，不要效法恶，只要效法善。行善的是出于神，行恶的未曾见过神。
Beloved, do not imitate the evil, but the good. He who does good is of God; he who does evil has not seen God.
1:12 有众人给低米丢作见证，又有真理本身给他作见证，就是我们也给他作见证，你也知道我们的见证是真的。
To Demetrius testimony has been borne by all and by the truth itself; and we also testify, and you know that our testimony is true.
1:13 我原有许多事要写给你，却不愿意用笔墨写给你；
I had many things to write to you, but I do not want to write to you with ink and pen;
1:14 但盼望快快的见你，我们当面交谈。愿你平安。朋友们都问你安。请你替我按着姓名问朋友们安。
But I hope to see you shortly, and we will speak face to face. Peace to you. The friends greet you. Greet the friends by name.
1173
65. 犹大书 Jude
犹大书 Jude 第 1 章
1:1 耶稣基督的奴仆，雅各的兄弟犹大，写信给那蒙召，在父神里蒙爱，并蒙耶稣基督保守的人：
Jude, a slave of Jesus Christ and a brother of James, to those who are called, beloved in God the Father, and kept by Jesus Christ:
1:2 愿怜悯、平安与爱，繁增的归与你们。
Mercy to you and peace and love be multiplied.
1:3 亲爱的，我尽心竭力要写信给你们，论到我们共享之救恩的时候，就不得不写信劝你们，要为那一次永远交付圣徒的信仰竭力争辩。
Beloved, while using all diligence to write to you concerning our common salvation, I found it necessary to write to you and exhort you to earnestly contend for the
faith once for all delivered to the saints.
1:4 因为有些人偷着进来，就是自古预先所记载要受审判的不敬虔之人，将我们神的恩典变作放纵情欲的机会，并且否认我们独一的主人和主，耶稣基督。
For certain men have crept in unnoticed, who of old have been written of beforehand for this judgment, ungodly men, perverting the grace of our God into
licentiousness and denying our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ.
1:5 虽然你们一次永远知道了一切的事，我仍要提醒你们：从前主救了祂的百姓出埃及地，后来却把那些不信的毁灭了；
But I intend to remind you, though you know all things once for all, that the Lord, having saved a people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who
did not believe;
1:6 又有不守自己权位，离弃自己住处的天使，主用永远的锁炼把他们拘留在幽冥里，等候大日的审判；
And angels who did not keep their own principality but abandoned their own dwelling place, He has kept in eternal bonds under gloom for the judgment of the
great day;
1:7 又如所多玛、蛾摩拉和周围城邑的人，也照他们的样子一味的行淫，随从相异的肉体，就受永火的刑罚，立为鉴戒。
How Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them, who in like manner with these gave themselves over to fornication and went after different flesh, are set
forth as an example, undergoing the penalty of eternal fire.
1:8 然而，这些作梦的人，还是照样玷污肉体，轻慢主治者，毁谤在尊位的。
Nevertheless in like manner these dreamers also defile the flesh and despise lordship and revile dignities.
1:9 天使长米迦勒与魔鬼争辩，为摩西的身体争论的时候，尚且不敢以神对他的判辞毁谤他，只说，主责备你吧。
But Michael the archangel, when he contended with the devil and disputed concerning the body of Moses, did not dare to bring a reviling judgment against him
but said, The Lord rebuke you.
1:10 但这些人毁谤他们所不认识的；他们本性所知道的，与那没有理性的畜类一样，在这些事上正被败坏。
But these revile the things that they do not know; and the things that they understand naturally, like animals without reason, in these they are being corrupted.
1:11 他们有祸了！因为走了该隐的道路，又为工价向着巴兰的错谬直闯，并在可拉的背叛中灭亡了。
Woe to them! For they have gone in the way of Cain and have rushed out in the error of Balaam for reward and have perished in the rebellion of Korah.
1:12 这样的人，在你们的爱筵上乃是暗礁，与你们同吃的时候，无所惧怕；他们是只喂养自己的牧人；是没有雨水的云彩，被风飘荡；是秋天没有果子的
树，死而又死，连根被拔出来；
These are the hidden reefs in your love feasts, feasting together with you without fear, shepherding themselves; waterless clouds being carried off by winds;
autumn trees without fruit, having died twice, rooted up;
1:13 是海里的狂浪，涌出自己可耻的泡沫；是流荡的星，有黑暗的幽冥为他们永远存留。
Wild waves of the sea, foaming out their own shames; wandering stars, for whom the gloom of darkness is kept for eternity.
1:14 亚当的七世孙以诺，也曾预言这些人说，看哪，主带着祂的千万圣者来临，
And Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied also of these, saying, Behold, the Lord came with myriads of His saints
1:15 要在众人身上行审判，定罪那一切不敬虔的人，凭不敬虔所行一切不敬虔的事，又定罪不敬虔之罪人所说一切顶撞祂的刚愎话。
To execute judgment against all and to convict all the ungodly concerning all their ungodly works which they have done in ungodliness, and concerning all the
hard things which ungodly sinners have spoken against Him.
1:16 这些人是牢骚求疵、怨尤不平的，随从自己的情欲而行，口中说矜夸的大话，为了利益奉承人。
These are murmurers, complainers, going on according to their own lusts; and their mouth speaks great swelling things, flattering persons for the sake of
advantage.
1:17 亲爱的，你们却要记念我们主耶稣基督的使徒从前所说的话；
But you, beloved, remember the words spoken before by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ,
1:18 他们曾对你们说过，末后的时期必有好讥诮的人，随从自己不敬虔的私欲而行。
That they said to you, In the last time there will be mockers, going on according to their own lusts for ungodliness.
1:19 这就是那些制造分裂，属魂而没有灵的人。
These are those who make divisions, soulish, having no spirit.
1:20 亲爱的，你们却要在至圣的信仰上建造自己，在圣灵里祷告，
But you, beloved, building up yourselves upon your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit,
1:21 保守自己在神的爱中，等候我们主耶稣基督的怜悯，以至于永远的生命。
Keep yourselves in the love of God, awaiting the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life.
1:22 有些人疑惑不定，你们要怜悯他们，
And on some have mercy, on those who are wavering;
1:23 要把他们从火中抢出来，搭救他们；有些人你们要存畏惧的心怜悯他们，连那被肉体玷污的里衣也当憎恶。
Save them by snatching them out of the fire. On others have mercy in fear, hating even the inner garment spotted from the flesh.
1:24 但愿荣耀、尊大、权能和权柄，借着我们的主耶稣基督，归与那能保守你们不失脚，并使你们无瑕无疵，欢欢乐乐站在祂荣耀之前的，独一的神我们
的救主，
But to Him who is able to guard you from stumbling and to set you before His glory without blemish in exultation,
1:25 从万世之前，并现今，直到永永远远。阿们。
To the only God our Savior through Jesus Christ our Lord be glory, majesty, might, and authority before all time and now and unto all eternity. Amen
.
1174
66. 启示录 Revelation
启示录 Revelation 第 1 章
1:1 耶稣基督的启示，就是神赐给祂，叫祂将必要快发生的事指示祂的众奴仆；祂就借着祂的使者传达，用表号指示祂的奴仆约翰。
The revelation of Jesus Christ which God gave to Him to show to His slaves the things that must quickly take place; and He made it known by signs, sending it by
His angel to His slave John,
1:2 约翰便将神的话，和耶稣基督的见证，凡自己所看见的，都见证出来。
Who testified the word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ, even all that he saw.
1:3 念这预言的话，和那些听见又遵守其中所记载的，都是有福的，因为时候近了。
Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of the prophecy and keep the things written in it, for the time is near.
1:4 约翰写信给在亚西亚的七个召会：愿恩典与平安，从那今是昔是以后永是的，从祂宝座前的七灵，
John to the seven churches which are in Asia: Grace to you and peace from Him who is and who was and who is coming, and from the seven Spirits who are
before His throne,
1:5 并从那忠信的见证人、死人中的首生者、为地上君王元首的耶稣基督，归与你们。祂爱我们，用自己的血，把我们从我们的罪中释放了；
And from Jesus Christ, the faithful Witness, the Firstborn of the dead, and the Ruler of the kings of the earth. To Him who loves us and has released us from our
sins by His blood
1:6 又使我们成为国度，作祂神与父的祭司；愿荣耀权能归与祂，直到永永远远。阿们。
And made us a kingdom, priests to His God and Father, to Him be the glory and the might forever and ever. Amen.
1:7 看哪，祂驾云降临，众目要看见祂，连刺祂的人也要看见祂；地上的众支派都要因祂捶胸哀哭。是的，阿们。
Behold, He comes with the clouds, and every eye will see Him, even those who pierced Him; and all the tribes of the land will mourn over Him. Yes, amen.
1:8 主神说，我是阿拉法，我是俄梅嘎，是今是昔是以后永是的全能者。
I am the Alpha and the Omega, says the Lord God, He who is and who was and who is coming, the Almighty.
1:9 我约翰，就是你们的弟兄，和你们在耶稣的患难、国度、忍耐里一同有分的，为神的话和耶稣的见证，曾在那名叫拔摩的海岛上。
I John, your brother and fellow partaker in the tribulation and kingdom and endurance in Jesus, was on the island called Patmos because of the word of God and
the testimony of Jesus.
1:10 当主日我在灵里，听见在我后面有大声音如吹号说，
I was in spirit on the Lord's Day and heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet,
1:11 你所看见的，当写在书上，寄给那七个召会：给以弗所、给士每拿、给别迦摩、给推雅推喇、给撒狄、给非拉铁非、给老底嘉。
Saying, What you see write in a scroll and send it to the seven churches: to Ephesus and to Smyrna and to Pergamos and to Thyatira and to Sardis and to
Philadelphia and to Laodicea.
1:12 我转过身来，要看是谁发声与我说话；既转过来，就看见七个金灯台；
And I turned to see the voice that spoke with me; and when I turned, I saw seven golden lampstands,
1:13 灯台中间，有一位好像人子，身穿长袍，直垂到脚，胸间束着金带。
And in the midst of the lampstands One like the Son of Man, clothed with a garment reaching to the feet, and girded about at the breasts with a golden girdle.
1:14 祂的头与发皆白，如白羊毛、如雪，眼目如同火焰，
And His head and hair were as white as white wool, as snow; and His eyes were like a flame of fire;
1:15 脚好像在炉中锻炼过明亮的铜，声音如同众水的声音。
And His feet were like shining bronze, as having been fired in a furnace; and His voice was like the sound of many waters.
1:16 祂右手中拿着七星，从祂口中出来一把两刃的利剑，面貌如同烈日中天发光。
And He had in His right hand seven stars; and out of His mouth proceeded a sharp two-edged sword; and His face shone as the sun shines in its power.
1:17 我一看见，就仆倒在祂脚前，像死了一样。祂用右手按着我说，不要惧怕；我是首先的，我是末后的，
And when I saw Him, I fell at His feet as dead; and He placed His right hand on me, saying, Do not fear; I am the First and the Last
1:18 又是那活着的；我曾死过，看哪，现在又活了，直活到永永远远，并且拿着死亡和阴间的钥匙。
And the living One; and I became dead, and behold, I am living forever and ever; and I have the keys of death and of Hades.
1:19 所以你要把所看见的事，和现在的事，以及这些事以后将要发生的事，都写出来。
Write therefore the things which you have seen and the things which are and the things which are about to take place after these things.
1:20 论到你所看见在我右手中的七星，和七个金灯台的奥秘，那七星就是七个召会的使者，七灯台就是七个召会。
The mystery of the seven stars which you saw upon My right hand and the seven golden lampstands: The seven stars are the messengers of the seven churches,
and the seven lampstands are the seven churches.
启示录 Revelation 第 2 章
2:1 你要写信给在以弗所的召会的使者，说，那右手中握着七星，在七个金灯台中间行走的，这样说，
To the messenger of the church in Ephesus write: These things says He who holds the seven stars in His right hand, He who walks in the midst of the seven
golden lampstands:
2:2 我知道你的行为、劳碌、忍耐，也知道你不能容忍恶人；你也曾试验那自称是使徒却不是使徒的，看出他们是假的；
I know your works and your labor and your endurance and that you cannot bear evil men; and you have tried those who call themselves apostles and are not,
and have found them to be false;
2:3 你也有忍耐，曾为我的名忍受一切，并不乏倦。
And you have endurance and have borne all things because of My name and have not grown weary.
2:4 然而有一件事我要责备你，就是你离弃了起初的爱。
But I have one thing against you, that you have left your first love.
2:5 所以要回想你是从那里坠落的，并要悔改，行起初所行的。不然，我就要临到你那里；你若不悔改，我就把你的灯台从原处挪去。
1175
Remember therefore where you have fallen from and repent and do the first works; but if not, I am coming to you and will remove your lampstand out of its place,
unless you repent.
2:6 然而你有这件事，就是你恨恶尼哥拉党的行为，这也是我所恨恶的。
But this you have, that you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.
2:7 那灵向众召会所说的话，凡有耳的，就应当听。得胜的，我必将神乐园中生命树的果子赐给他吃。
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, to him I will give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the Paradise of
God.
2:8 你要写信给在士每拿的召会的使者，说，那首先的、末后的、死过又活的，这样说，
And to the messenger of the church in Smyrna write: These things says the First and the Last, who became dead and lived again:
2:9 我知道你的患难和贫穷，其实你是富足的，也知道那自称是犹太人，却不是犹太人，乃是撒但会堂的人，所说毁谤的话。
I know your tribulation and poverty (but you are rich) and the slander from those who call themselves Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan.
2:10 你将要受的苦你不用怕。看哪，魔鬼将要把你们中间几个人下在监里，叫你们受试炼；你们必受患难十日。你务要至死忠信，我就赐给你那生命的冠
冕。
Do not fear the things that you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to cast some of you into prison that you may be tried, and you will have tribulation for
ten days. Be faithful unto death, and I will give you the crown of life.
2:11 那灵向众召会所说的话，凡有耳的，就应当听。得胜的，绝不会受第二次死的害。
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. He who overcomes shall by no means be hurt of the second death.
2:12 你要写信给在别迦摩的召会的使者，说，那有两刃利剑的，这样说，
And to the messenger of the church in Pergamos write: These things says He who has the sharp two-edged sword:
2:13 我知道你的居所，就是有撒但座位之处。你持守着我的名，甚至当我忠信的见证人安提帕在你们中间，撒但所住之处被杀的那些日子，你也没有否认
对我的信仰。
I know where you dwell, where Satan's throne is; and you hold fast My name and have not denied My faith, even in the days of Antipas, My witness, My faithful
one, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells.
2:14 然而有几件事我要责备你，因为在你那里，有人持守巴兰的教训；这巴兰曾教导巴勒，将绊脚石放在以色列子孙面前，叫他们吃祭偶像之物，并且行
淫乱。
But I have a few things against you, that you have some there who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of
Israel, to eat idol sacrifices and to commit fornication.
2:15 你那里也有人照样持守尼哥拉党的教训。
In the same way you also have some who hold in like manner the teaching of the Nicolaitans.
2:16 所以你要悔改；不然，我就快临到你那里，用我口中的剑攻击他们。
Repent therefore; but if not, I am coming to you quickly, and I will make war with them with the sword of My mouth.
2:17 那灵向众召会所说的话，凡有耳的，就应当听。得胜的，我必将那隐藏的吗哪赐给他，并赐他一块白石，上面写着新名，除了那领受的以外，没有人
认识。
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, to him I will give of the hidden manna, and to him I will give a white
stone, and upon the stone a new name written, which no one knows except him who receives it.
2:18 你要写信给在推雅推喇的召会的使者，说，那眼目如火焰，脚像明亮之铜的神之子，这样说，
And to the messenger of the church in Thyatira write: These things says the Son of God, He who has eyes like a flame of fire, and His feet are like shining bronze:
2:19 我知道你的行为、爱、信、服事、忍耐，也知道你末后所行的，比起初的更多。
I know your works and love and faith and service and your endurance and that your last works are more than the first.
2:20 然而有一件事我要责备你，就是你容让那自称是女申言者的妇人耶洗别教导我的奴仆，引诱他们行淫乱，并吃祭偶像之物。
But I have something against you, that you tolerate the woman Jezebel, she who calls herself a prophetess and teaches and leads My slaves astray to commit
fornication and to eat idol sacrifices.
2:21 我曾给她时间，让她悔改，她却不肯悔改她的淫行。
And I gave her time that she might repent, and she is not willing to repent of her fornication.
2:22 看哪，我要叫她卧病在床，那些与她行淫的人，若不为她所行的悔改，我也要叫他们受大患难。
Behold, I cast her into a bed, and those who commit adultery with her, into great tribulation, unless they repent of her works;
2:23 我又要用死亡击杀她的儿女，叫众召会都知道，我是那察看人肺腑心肠的；我且要照你们的行为报应你们各人。
And her children I will kill with death; and all the churches will know that I am He who searches the inward parts and the hearts; and I will give to each one of you
according to your works.
2:24 至于你们推雅推喇其余的人，就是一切不持有那教训，不明白他们所谓撒但深奥之事的人，我告诉你们，我不将别的重担放在你们身上。
But I say to you -- the rest in Thyatira, as many as do not have this teaching, who have not known the deep things of Satan, as they say -- I put no other burden
upon you;
2:25 但你们已经有的，总要持守，直等到我来。
Nevertheless what you have hold fast until I come.
2:26 得胜的，又守住我的工作到底的，我要赐给他权柄制伏列国；
And he who overcomes and he who keeps My works until the end, to him I will give authority over the nations;
2:27 他必用铁杖辖管他们，将他们如同窑户的瓦器打得粉碎，像我从我父领受的权柄一样；
And he will shepherd them with an iron rod, as vessels of pottery are broken in pieces, as I also have received from My Father;
2:28 我又要把晨星赐给他。
And to him I will give the morning star.
2:29 那灵向众召会所说的话，凡有耳的，就应当听。
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
1176
启示录 Revelation 第 3 章
3:1 你要写信给在撒狄的召会的使者，说，那有神的七灵和七星的，这样说，我知道你的行为，按名你是活的，其实是死的。
And to the messenger of the church in Sardis write: These things says He who has the seven Spirits of God and the seven stars: I know your works, that you have
a name that you are living, and yet you are dead.
3:2 你要儆醒，坚固那剩下将要衰微的；因我没有见到你的行为，在我神面前有一样是完成的。
Become watchful and establish the things which remain, which were about to die; for I have found none of your works completed before My God.
3:3 所以要回想你是怎样领受，怎样听见的，又要遵守，并要悔改。若不儆醒，我必临到你那里如同贼一样。我几时临到，你也绝不能知道。
Remember therefore how you have received and heard, and keep it and repent. If therefore you will not watch, I will come as a thief, and you shall by no means
know at what hour I will come upon you.
3:4 然而在撒狄，你还有几名是未曾玷污自己衣服的，他们要穿白衣与我同行，因为他们是配得过的。
But you have a few names in Sardis who have not defiled their garments, and they will walk with Me in white because they are worthy.
3:5 得胜的，必这样穿白衣；我也绝不从生命册上涂抹他的名，并且要在我父面前，和我父的众使者面前，承认他的名。
He who overcomes will be clothed thus, in white garments, and I shall by no means erase his name out of the book of life, and I will confess his name before My
Father and before His angels.
3:6 那灵向众召会所说的话，凡有耳的，就应当听。
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
3:7 你要写信给在非拉铁非的召会的使者，说，那圣别的、真实的，拿着大卫的钥匙，开了就没有人能关，关了就没有人能开的，这样说，
And to the messenger of the church in Philadelphia write: These things says the Holy One, the true One, the One who has the key of David, the One who opens
and no one will shut, and shuts and no one opens:
3:8 我知道你的行为；看哪，我在你面前给你一个敞开的门，是无人能关的；因为你稍微有一点能力，也曾遵守我的话，没有否认我的名。
I know your works; behold, I have put before you an opened door which no one can shut, because you have a little power and have kept My word and have not
denied My name.
3:9 看哪，那撒但会堂的，自称是犹太人，其实不是犹太人，乃是说谎的；看哪，我要使他们来在你脚前下拜，并使他们知道，我已经爱你了。
Behold, I will make those of the synagogue of Satan, those who call themselves Jews and are not, but lie -- behold, I will cause them to come and fall prostrate
before your feet and to know that I have loved you.
3:10 你既遵守我忍耐的话，我也必保守你免去那将要临到普天下，试炼一切住在地上之人试炼的时候。
Because you have kept the word of My endurance, I also will keep you out of the hour of trial, which is about to come on the whole inhabited earth, to try them
who dwell on the earth.
3:11 我必快来，你要持守你所有的，免得有人夺去你的冠冕。
I come quickly; hold fast what you have that no one take your crown.
3:12 得胜的，我要叫他在我神殿中作柱子，他也绝不再从那里出去；我又要将我神的名，和我神城的名，（这城就是由天上从我神那里降下来的新耶路撒
冷，）并我的新名，都写在他上面。
He who overcomes, him I will make a pillar in the temple of My God, and he shall by no means go out anymore, and I will write upon him the name of My God
and the name of the city of My God, the New Jerusalem, which descends out of heaven from My God, and My new name.
3:13 那灵向众召会所说的话，凡有耳的，就应当听。
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
3:14 你要写信给在老底嘉的召会的使者，说，那阿们，那忠信真实的见证人，那神创造之物的元始，这样说，
And to the messenger of the church in Laodicea write: These things says the Amen, the faithful and true Witness, the beginning of the creation of God:
3:15 我知道你的行为，你也不冷也不热；我巴不得你或冷或热。
I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot; I wish that you were cold or hot.
3:16 你既如温水，也不热也不冷，我就要从我口中把你吐出去。
So, because you are lukewarm and neither hot nor cold, I am about to spew you out of My mouth.
3:17 因为你说，我是富足，已经发了财，一样都不缺；却不知道你是那困苦、可怜、贫穷、瞎眼、赤身的。
Because you say, I am wealthy and have become rich and have need of nothing, and do not know that you are wretched and miserable and poor and blind and
naked,
3:18 我劝你向我买火炼的金子，叫你富足；又买白衣穿上，叫你赤身的羞耻不露出来；又买眼药擦你的眼睛，使你能看见。
I counsel you to buy from Me gold refined by fire that you may be rich, and white garments that you may be clothed and that the shame of your nakedness may
not be manifested, and eyesalve to anoint your eyes that you may see.
3:19 凡我所爱的，我就责备管教；所以你要发热心，也要悔改。
As many as I love I reprove and discipline; be zealous therefore and repent.
3:20 看哪，我站在门外叩门；若有听见我声音就开门的，我要进到他那里，我与他，他与我要一同坐席。
Behold, I stand at the door and knock; if anyone hears My voice and opens the door, then I will come in to him and dine with him and he with Me.
3:21 得胜的，我要赐他在我宝座上与我同坐，就如我得了胜，在我父的宝座上与祂同坐一样。
He who overcomes, to him I will give to sit with Me on My throne, as I also overcame and sat with My Father on His throne.
3:22 那灵向众召会所说的话，凡有耳的，就应当听。
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
启示录 Revelation 第 4 章
4:1 这些事以后，我观看，看哪，天上有门开了，我初次所听见那如吹号的声音，对我说，你上到这里来，我要将这些事以后必发生的事指示你。
After these things I saw, and behold, a door opened in heaven, and the first voice which I heard was like a trumpet speaking with me, saying, Come up here, and
I will show you the things that must take place after these things.
4:2 我立刻就在灵里；看哪，有一个宝座安置在天上，又有一位坐在宝座上。
Immediately I was in spirit; and behold, there was a throne set in heaven, and upon the throne there was One sitting;
1177
4:3 那位坐着的，显出来的样子好像碧玉和红宝石，又有虹围着宝座，显出来的样子好像绿宝石。
And He who was sitting was like a jasper stone and a sardius in appearance, and there was a rainbow around the throne like an emerald in appearance.
4:4 宝座的周围，又有二十四个宝座，其上坐着二十四位长老，身穿白衣，头戴金冠。
And around the throne there were twenty-four thrones, and upon the thrones twenty-four elders sitting, clothed in white garments, and upon their heads golden
crowns.
4:5 有闪电、声音、雷轰，从宝座中发出。又有七盏火灯在宝座前点着，这七灯就是神的七灵。
And out of the throne come forth lightnings and voices and thunders. And there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne, which are the seven Spirits of
God;
4:6 宝座前好像一个玻璃海，如同水晶；宝座中、和宝座周围有四个活物，前后满了眼睛。
And before the throne there was as it were a glassy sea like crystal; and in the midst of the throne and around the throne, there were four living creatures full of
eyes in front and behind.
4:7 第一个活物像狮子，第二个活物像牛犊，第三个活物脸面像人，第四个活物像飞鹰。
And the first living creature was like a lion, and the second living creature like a calf, and the third living creature had a face like that of a man, and the fourth
living creature was like a flying eagle.
4:8 四活物各个都有六个翅膀，周围和里面统满了眼睛；他们昼夜不歇息的说，圣哉，圣哉，圣哉，主神是昔是今是以后永是的全能者。
And the four living creatures, each one of them having six wings apiece, are full of eyes around and within; and they have no rest day and night, saying, Holy,
holy, holy, Lord God the Almighty, who was and who is and who is coming.
4:9 每逢四活物将荣耀、尊贵、感谢，归与那坐在宝座上，活到永永远远者的时候，
And when the four living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to Him who sits upon the throne, to Him who lives forever and ever,
4:10 那二十四位长老，就俯伏在坐宝座的面前，敬拜那活到永永远远的，又把他们的冠冕投在宝座前，说，
The twenty-four elders will fall before Him who sits upon the throne and worship Him who lives forever and ever; and they will cast their crowns before the throne,
saying,
4:11 我们的主，我们的神，你是配得荣耀、尊贵、能力的，因为你创造了万有，并且万有是因你的旨意存在并被创造的。
You are worthy, our Lord and God, to receive the glory and the honor and the power, for You have created all things, and because of Your will they were, and
were created.
启示录 Revelation 第 5 章
5:1 我看见坐宝座的右手中有书卷，里外都写着字，用七印封严了。
And I saw on the right hand of Him who sits upon the throne a scroll written within and on the back, sealed up with seven seals.
5:2 我又看见一位大力的天使，大声宣传说，有谁配展开那书卷，揭开它的七印？
And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the scroll and to break its seals?
5:3 在天上、地上、地底下，没有能展开、能观看那书卷的。
And no one in heaven nor on the earth nor under the earth was able to open the scroll or look into it.
5:4 因为找不到一位配展开、配观看那书卷的，我就大哭。
And I wept much because no one was found worthy to open the scroll or look into it.
5:5 长老中有一位对我说，不要哭；看哪，犹大支派中的狮子，大卫的根，祂已得胜，能以展开那书卷，揭开它的七印。
And one of the elders said to me, Do not weep; behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has overcome so that He may open the scroll and its
seven seals.
5:6 我又看见宝座与四活物中间，并众长老中间，有羔羊站立，像是刚被杀过的，有七角和七眼，就是神的七灵，奉差遣往全地去的。
And I saw in the midst of the throne and of the four living creatures and in the midst of the elders a Lamb standing as having just been slain, having seven horns
and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God sent forth into all the earth.
5:7 这羔羊前来，从坐宝座的右手中拿了书卷。
And He came and took the scroll out of the right hand of Him who sits upon the throne.
5:8 当祂拿书卷的时候，四活物和二十四位长老，都俯伏在羔羊面前，各拿着琴，和盛满了香的金炉，这香炉就是众圣徒的祷告。
And when He took the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell before the Lamb, each having a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which
bowls are the prayers of the saints.
5:9 他们唱新歌，说，你配拿书卷，配揭开它的七印，因为你曾被杀，用自己的血从各支派、各方言、各民族、各邦国中，买了人来归与神，
And they sing a new song, saying: You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals, for You were slain and have purchased for God by Your blood men out
of every tribe and tongue and people and nation,
5:10 又叫他们成为国度，作祭司，归与我们的神；他们要在地上执掌王权。
And have made them a kingdom and priests to our God; and they will reign on the earth.
5:11 我又看见，且听见，宝座与活物并长老的周围，有许多天使的声音；他们的数目有千千万万，
And I saw, and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne and of the living creatures and of the elders, and their number was ten thousands of ten
thousands and thousands of thousands,
5:12 大声说，曾被杀的羔羊，是配得能力、丰富、智慧、力量、尊贵、荣耀、颂赞的。
Saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb who has been slain to receive the power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing.
5:13 我又听见在天上、地上、地底下、沧海里的一切受造之物，以及天地间的万有都说，但愿颂赞、尊贵、荣耀、权能，都归与坐宝座的和羔羊，直到永
永远远。
And every creature which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth and on the sea and all things in them, I heard saying, To Him who sits upon the
throne and to the Lamb be the blessing and the honor and the glory and the might forever and ever.
5:14 四活物就说，阿们。众长老也俯伏敬拜。
And the four living creatures said, Amen. And the elders fell down and worshipped.
1178
启示录 Revelation 第 6 章
6:1 羔羊揭开七印中第一印的时候，我观看，就听见四活物中的一个，声音如雷，说，你来。
And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures saying like the sound of thunder, Come.
6:2 我就观看，看哪，有一匹白马，骑在马上的拿着弓，并有冠冕赐给他，他便出去，胜了又要胜。
And I saw, and behold, a white horse, and he who sits on it had a bow; and a crown was given to him, and he went forth conquering and to conquer.
6:3 羔羊揭开第二印的时候，我听见第二个活物说，你来。
And when He opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature saying, Come.
6:4 我就观看，看哪，另有一匹红马出去，骑在马上的得了权柄，可以从地上夺去太平，使人彼此相杀，又有一把大刀赐给他。
And I saw, and behold, another horse, a red one, went forth; and to him who sits on it, to him authority was given to take peace from the earth, and that men
should slay one another; and to him a great sword was given.
6:5 羔羊揭开第三印的时候，我听见第三个活物说，你来。我就观看，看哪，有一匹黑马，骑在马上的手里拿着天平。
And when He opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature saying, Come. And I saw, and behold, a black horse; and he who sits on it had a balance in
his hand.
6:6 我听见在四活物中，仿佛有声音说，一个银币买一升麦子，一个银币买三升大麦，油和酒不可蹧蹋。
And I heard as it were a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying: A choenix of wheat for a denarius and three choenixes of barley for a denarius; and
do not harm the oil and the wine.
6:7 羔羊揭开第四印的时候，我听见第四个活物的声音说，你来。
And when He opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature saying, Come.
6:8 我就观看，看哪，有一匹灰马，骑在马上的，名字叫作死，阴间也随着他。有权柄赐给他们管辖地的四分之一，用刀剑、饥荒、瘟疫、地上的野兽去
杀害人。
And I saw, and behold, a pale horse, and he who sits upon it, his name is Death; and Hades followed with him. And authority was given to them over the fourth
part of the earth to kill with the sword and with famine and with death and by the beasts of the earth.
6:9 羔羊揭开第五印的时候，我看见在祭坛底下，有为神的话，并为所持守的见证被杀之人的魂。
And when He opened the fifth seal, I saw underneath the altar the souls of those who had been slain because of the word of God and because of the testimony
which they had.
6:10 他们大声喊着说，圣别真实的主人，你不审判住在地上的人，给我们伸流血的冤，要等到几时？
And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Master, holy and true, will You not judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth?
6:11 于是有白袍赐给他们各人，又有话对他们说，还要安息片时，等着一同作奴仆的，和他们的弟兄，就是那些将要也像他们一样被杀的，满足了数目。
And to each of them was given a white robe; and it was said to them that they should rest yet a little while, until also the number of their fellow slaves and their
brothers who were about to be killed, even as they were, is completed.
6:12 羔羊揭开第六印的时候，我观看，大地震就发生了；日头变黑，像粗糙的黑毛布，满月变红像血；
And I saw when He opened the sixth seal, and there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black like sackcloth made of hair, and the whole moon
became like blood;
6:13 天上的星辰坠落于地，如同无花果树被大风摇动，落下未熟的果子一样。
And the stars of heaven fell to the earth as a fig tree casts its unripe figs when shaken by a great wind.
6:14 天就挪移，好像书卷被卷起来；一切山岭海岛都被挪移离开本位。
And heaven was removed like a scroll being rolled up, and every mountain and island were moved out of their places.
6:15 地上的君王、大臣、将军、富户、壮士、和一切为奴的、自主的，都藏身在洞穴、和山岭的岩石中。
And the kings of the earth and the great men and the generals and the rich and the strong and every slave and free man hid themselves in the caves and in the
rocks of the mountains;
6:16 他们向山岭和岩石说，倒在我们身上吧，把我们藏起来，躲避坐宝座者的面、和羔羊的忿怒；
And they say to the mountains and to the rocks, Fall on us and hide us from the face of Him who sits upon the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb;
6:17 因为祂们忿怒的大日到了，谁能站得住？
For the great day of Their wrath has come, and who is able to stand?
启示录 Revelation 第 7 章
7:1 这事以后，我看见四位天使站在地的四角，执掌地上四方的风，叫风不吹在地上、海上和任何树上。
After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, so that no wind would blow on the earth nor on the sea
nor on any tree.
7:2 我又看见另一位天使，从日出之地上来，拿着活神的印；祂向那得着权柄要伤害地和海的四位天使，大声喊着说，
And I saw another Angel ascending from the rising of the sun, having the seal of the living God; and He cried with a loud voice to the four angels to whom
authority was given to harm the earth and the sea,
7:3 地与海并树木，你们不可伤害，等我们印了我们神众奴仆的额。
Saying, Do not harm the earth or the sea or the trees until we seal the slaves of our God upon their foreheads.
7:4 我听见受印者的数目，以色列子孙各支派中受印的有十四万四千。
And I heard the number of those who were sealed, a hundred and forty-four thousand, sealed out of every tribe of the sons of Israel:
7:5 犹大支派中受印的有一万二千，流便支派中有一万二千，迦得支派中有一万二千，
Out of the tribe of Judah, twelve thousand sealed; out of the tribe of Reuben, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Gad, twelve thousand;
7:6 亚设支派中有一万二千，拿弗他利支派中有一万二千，玛拿西支派中有一万二千，
Out of the tribe of Asher, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Naphtali, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Manasseh, twelve thousand;
7:7 西缅支派中有一万二千，利未支派中有一万二千，以萨迦支派中有一万二千，
Out of the tribe of Simeon, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Levi, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Issachar, twelve thousand;
7:8 西布伦支派中有一万二千，约瑟支派中有一万二千，便雅悯支派中受印的有一万二千。
1179
Out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Joseph, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Benjamin, twelve thousand sealed.
7:9 这些事以后，我观看，看哪，有大批的群众，没有人能数得过来，是从各邦国、各支派、各民族、各方言来的，站在宝座前和羔羊面前，身穿白袍，
手拿棕树枝，
After these things I saw, and behold, there was a great multitude which no one could number, out of every nation and all tribes and peoples and tongues,
standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes and palm branches in their hands.
7:10 大声喊着说，愿救恩归与坐在宝座上我们的神，也归与羔羊。
And they cry with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God who sits upon the throne and to the Lamb.
7:11 众天使都站在宝座、众长老和四活物的周围，在宝座前面伏于地，敬拜神，说，
And all the angels stood around the throne and the elders and the four living creatures; and they fell on their faces before the throne and worshipped God,
7:12 阿们。愿颂赞、荣耀、智慧、感谢、尊贵、能力、力量，都归与我们的神，直到永永远远。阿们。
Saying, Amen. The blessing and the glory and the wisdom and the thanks and the honor and the power and the strength be to our God forever and ever. Amen.
7:13 长老中有一位问我说，这些穿白袍的是谁？是从那里来的？
And one of the elders answered, saying to me, These who are clothed in the white robes, who are they, and where did they come from?
7:14 我对他说，我主，你晓得。他对我说，这些人是从大患难中出来的，曾用羔羊的血，洗净了他们的袍子，并且洗白了。
And I said to him, My lord, you know. And he said to me, These are those who come out of the great tribulation, and they have washed their robes and made
them white in the blood of the Lamb.
7:15 所以他们在神宝座前，昼夜在祂殿中事奉祂；坐宝座的要用帐幕覆庇他们。
Because of this they are before the throne of God and serve Him day and night in His temple; and He who sits upon the throne will tabernacle over them.
7:16 他们不再饥、不再渴，日头和一切炎热也必不伤害他们，
They will not hunger any more, neither will they thirst any more, neither will the sun beat upon them, nor any heat;
7:17 因为宝座中的羔羊必牧养他们，领他们到生命水的泉；神也必从他们眼中擦去一切的眼泪。
For the Lamb who is in the midst of the throne will shepherd them and guide them to springs of waters of life; and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.
启示录 Revelation 第 8 章
8:1 羔羊揭开第七印的时候，天上寂静约有半小时。
And when He opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour.
8:2 我看见那站在神面前的七位天使，有七枝号赐给他们。
And I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them.
8:3 另一位天使拿着金香炉，来站在祭坛旁边，有许多香赐给祂，好同众圣徒的祷告献在宝座前的金坛上。
And another Angel came and stood at the altar, having a golden censer, and much incense was given to Him to offer with the prayers of all the saints upon the
golden altar which was before the throne.
8:4 那香的烟同众圣徒的祷告，从那天使手中上升于神面前。
And the smoke of the incense went up with the prayers of the saints out of the hand of the Angel before God.
8:5 那天使拿着香炉，盛满了坛上的火，丢在地上，于是有雷轰、声音、闪电、地震。
And the Angel took the censer and filled it with the fire of the altar and cast it to the earth; and there were thunders and voices and lightnings and an earthquake.
8:6 拿着七号的七位天使，就预备要吹号。
And the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to trumpet.
8:7 第一位天使吹号，就有雹子与火搀着血丢在地上，地的三分之一被烧了，树的三分之一被烧了，一切的青草也被烧了。
And the first trumpeted, and there was hail and fire mingled with blood, and it was cast to the earth; and the third part of the earth was burned up, and the third
part of the trees were burned up, and all green grass was burned up.
8:8 第二位天使吹号，就有仿佛火烧着的大山扔在海中，海的三分之一变成血，
And the second angel trumpeted, and as it were a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea; and the third part of the sea became blood,
8:9 海中的活物死了三分之一，船只也坏了三分之一。
And the third part of the creatures which were in the sea and had life died, and the third part of the ships were destroyed.
8:10 第三位天使吹号，就有烧着的大星，好像火把从天上落下来，落在江河的三分之一，和众水的泉上。
And the third angel trumpeted, and a great star fell out of heaven, burning like a torch, and it fell upon the third part of the rivers and upon the springs of waters.
8:11 这星名叫茵蔯；众水的三分之一变为茵蔯，因水变苦，就死了许多人。
And the name of the star is called Wormwood; and the third part of the waters became wormwood, and many of the men died from the waters because they
were made bitter.
8:12 第四位天使吹号，日头的三分之一、月亮的三分之一、星辰的三分之一都被击打，以致日月星辰的三分之一黑暗了，白昼的三分之一不发亮，黑夜也
是这样。
And the fourth angel trumpeted, and the third part of the sun and the third part of the moon and the third part of the stars were smitten, so that the third part of
them would be darkened and the day would not appear for the third part of it, and the night likewise.
8:13 我又看见，并听见一只鹰在天空顶点飞着，大声说，三位天使要吹那其余的号，由于这号声，住在地上的人，祸哉，祸哉，祸哉。
And I saw, and I heard an eagle flying in mid-heaven, saying with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe, to those who dwell on the earth because of the remaining
trumpet sounds of the three angels who are about to trumpet!
启示录 Revelation 第 9 章
9:1 第五位天使吹号，我就看见一个星从天落到地上，有无底坑的钥匙赐给他。
And the fifth angel trumpeted, and I saw a star out of heaven fallen to the earth, and to him was given the key of the pit of the abyss.
9:2 他开了无底坑，便有烟从坑里往上冒，好像大火炉的烟，日头和天空都因这坑的烟昏暗了。
1180
And he opened the pit of the abyss, and smoke went up out of the pit like the smoke of a great furnace; and the sun and the air were darkened by the smoke of
the pit.
9:3 有蝗虫从烟中出来飞到地上，有能力赐给它们，好像地上蝎子的能力。
And out of the smoke came forth locusts to the earth, and to them power was given, as the scorpions of the earth have power.
9:4 又有话吩咐它们，不可伤害地上的草，和各样的青物，并各样的树木，惟独可以伤害额上没有神印记的人。
And it was said to them that they should not harm the grass of the earth or any green thing or any tree, but men who do not have the seal of God on their
foreheads.
9:5 但不许蝗虫害死他们，只叫他们受痛苦五个月，这痛苦就像蝎子螫人的痛苦一样。
And it was given them that they should not kill them, but that they should be tormented five months; and their torment was like the torment of a scorpion when it
strikes a man.
9:6 在那些日子，人要求死，却绝不得死；切望要死，死却远避他们。
And in those days men will seek death and shall by no means find it; and they will long to die, and death flees from them.
9:7 蝗虫的样子好像预备出战的马，头上好像戴着冠冕，仿佛是金的，脸面像人的脸面，
And the locusts were like horses prepared for war, and on their heads there were as it were crowns like gold, and their faces were like faces of men.
9:8 头发像女人的头发，牙齿像狮子的牙齿，
And they had hair like the hair of women, and their teeth were like the teeth of lions.
9:9 胸甲好像铁甲，翅膀的声音，好像许多车马奔跑上阵的声音，
And they had breastplates like breastplates of iron; and the sound of their wings was like the sound of chariots of many horses rushing into war.
9:10 尾巴像蝎子，又有毒刺，尾巴有能力伤人五个月。
And they have tails like scorpions, and stings; and in their tails is their power to harm men for five months.
9:11 有无底坑的使者作王管辖它们；他的名，希伯来话叫亚巴顿，希利尼话叫亚玻伦。
They have a king over them, the angel of the abyss; his name in Hebrew is Abaddon; and in Greek he has the name Apollyon.
9:12 第一样灾祸过去了，看哪，以后还有两样灾祸要来。
The first woe has passed; behold, two woes are yet coming after these things.
9:13 第六位天使吹号，我就听见一个声音，从神面前金坛的四角发出，
And the sixth angel trumpeted, and I heard a voice out of the four horns of the golden altar which is before God
9:14 对那拿着号的第六位天使说，把那捆绑在伯拉大河的四个使者释放了。
Saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, Release the four angels who are bound at the great river Euphrates.
9:15 那四个使者就被释放；他们原是预备好了，要在某时某日某月某年，杀害人类的三分之一。
And the four angels were released, who had been prepared for the hour and day and month and year that they might kill the third part of men.
9:16 马军的数目有二万万，他们的数目我听见了。
And the number of the armies of horsemen was two hundred million; I heard their number.
9:17 我在异象中看见那些马和骑马的是这样：骑马的胸前有甲如火、如紫玛瑙、如硫磺；马的头好像狮子的头，有火、有烟、有硫磺，从马的口中出来。
And thus I saw the horses in the vision and those sitting on them, having breastplates of fire and of hyacinth and of brimstone; and the heads of the horses were
like the heads of lions, and out of their mouths proceed fire and smoke and brimstone.
9:18 由于它们口中所出来的火、烟与硫磺这三样灾害，人类的三分之一都被杀了。
By these three plagues the third part of the men were killed, by the fire and the smoke and the brimstone proceeding out of their mouths.
9:19 这马的能力，是在口里和尾巴上，因这尾巴像蛇，有头用来伤害人。
For the power of the horses is in their mouth and in their tails; for their tails are like serpents and have heads, and with them they harm men.
9:20 其余未被这些灾害所杀的人，仍旧不悔改自己手所作的，还是去拜鬼，和那些不能看、不能听、不能走，金、银、铜、石、木的偶像；
And the rest of the men, who were not killed by these plagues, still did not repent of the works of their hands, so as not to worship the demons and the idols of
gold and silver and brass and stone and wood, which can neither see nor hear nor walk;
9:21 又不悔改自己的凶杀、邪术、淫乱、或偷窃。
And they did not repent of their murders or of their sorceries or of their fornication or of their thefts.
启示录 Revelation 第 10 章
10:1 我又看见另一位大力的天使，从天降下，披着云彩，头上有虹，脸面像日头，两脚像火柱，
And I saw another strong Angel coming down out of heaven, clothed with a cloud; and the rainbow was upon His head, and His face was like the sun, and His
feet like pillars of fire;
10:2 手里拿着展开的小书卷，右脚踏在海上，左脚踏在地上，
And He had in His hand a little opened scroll. And He placed His right foot on the sea and the left on the land;
10:3 大声呼喊，好像狮子吼叫，呼喊完了，就有七雷发声说话。
And He cried out with a loud voice just as a lion roars. And when He cried out, the seven thunders uttered their own voices.
10:4 七雷说话的时候，我正要写出来，就听见从天上有声音说，七雷所说的你要封上，不可写出来。
And when the seven thunders spoke, I was about to write, and I heard a voice out of heaven saying, Seal the things which the seven thunders spoke, and do not
write them.
10:5 我所看见那站在海上和地上的天使，向天举起右手来，
And the Angel whom I saw standing on the sea and on the land lifted up His right hand to heaven
10:6 指着那创造天和天上之物、地和地上之物、海和海中之物，直活到永永远远的，起誓说，不再耽延了。
And swore by Him who lives forever and ever, who created heaven and the things in it, and the earth and the things in it, and the sea and the things in it, that
there shall be delay no longer,
10:7 但在第七位天使发声的日子，要吹号的时候，神的奥秘就完成了，正如神所传给祂的奴仆众申言者的福音。
But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel when he is about to trumpet, then the mystery of God is finished, as He has announced the good news to His
own slaves the prophets.
1181
10:8 我从天上所听见的那声音，又同我说话，说，你去把那站在海上和地上的天使手中展开的书卷取过来。
And the voice which I heard out of heaven, I heard again speaking with me and saying, Go, take the opened scroll in the hand of the Angel who is standing on
the sea and on the land.
10:9 我就走到那天使那里，请祂把小书卷给我。祂对我说，你拿着吃尽了，这要叫你肚子发苦，然而在你口中要甜如蜜。
And I went to the Angel and told Him to give me the little scroll. And He said to me, Take it and devour it, and it will make your stomach bitter, but in your mouth it
will be as sweet as honey.
10:10 我从那天使手中接过小书卷，把它吃尽了；在我口中果然甜如蜜；吃了以后，肚子觉得发苦。
And I took the little scroll out of the hand of the Angel and devoured it, and it was as sweet as honey in my mouth; and when I had eaten it, my stomach became
bitter.
10:11 他们对我说，你必指着多民族、多邦国、多方言、多君王，再说预言。
And they said to me, You must prophesy again over many peoples and nations and tongues and kings.
启示录 Revelation 第 11 章
11:1 有一根像量度之杖的苇子赐给我，又有话说，起来，将神的殿和坛、并殿中敬拜的人，都量一量。
And there was given to me a reed like a rod, and someone said, Rise and measure the temple of God and the altar and those who worship in it.
11:2 但殿外的院子，要丢弃不量，因为这是给了外邦人的，他们要践踏圣城四十二个月。
And the court which is outside the temple cast out and do not measure it, because it has been given to the Gentiles, and they will trample the holy city for forty-
two months.
11:3 我要使我那两个见证人，穿着麻衣，说预言一千二百六十天。
And I will cause My two witnesses to prophesy a thousand two hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth.
11:4 他们就是那两棵橄榄树，两个灯台，立在全地之主面前的。
These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands which stand before the Lord of the earth.
11:5 若有人想要伤害他们，就有火从他们口中出来，烧灭仇敌。凡想要伤害他们的，都必这样被杀。
And if anyone desires to harm them, fire proceeds out of their mouth and devours their enemies. And if anyone desires to harm them, thus must he be killed.
11:6 这二人有权柄，在他们说预言的日子，将天闭塞，叫天不下雨；又有权柄掌管众水，将水变为血，并且能随时随意用各样的灾害击打地。
These have the authority to shut heaven that no rain may fall during the days of their prophecy; and they have authority over the waters to turn them into blood
and to smite the earth with every plague as often as they desire.
11:7 他们作完见证，那从无底坑上来的兽，必与他们争战，并且胜过他们，把他们杀了。
And when they have completed their testimony, the beast who comes up out of the abyss will make war with them and will overcome them and kill them.
11:8 他们的尸首倒在那大城的街道上；这城按着灵意叫所多玛，又叫埃及，就是他们的主钉十字架的地方。
And their corpses will be on the street of the great city, which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also their Lord was crucified.
11:9 有人从各民族、各支派、各方言、各邦国，来观看他们的尸首三天半，又不许把尸首放在坟墓里。
And those of the peoples and tribes and tongues and nations see their corpses for three and a half days, and they do not allow their corpses to be placed in a
tomb.
11:10 住在地上的人，就为他们欢喜快乐，彼此馈送礼物，因为这两位申言者曾叫住在地上的人受痛苦。
And those who dwell on the earth rejoice over them and make merry; and they will send gifts to one another because these two prophets tormented those who
dwell on the earth.
11:11 过了这三天半，有生命之气从神那里进入他们里面，他们就站起来，叫看见的人大大害怕。
And after the three and a half days, the breath of life out of God entered into them, and they stood on their feet; and great fear fell upon those beholding them.
11:12 两位申言者听见有大声音从天上来，对他们说，上到这里来。他们就驾着云上了天，他们的仇敌也看见了。
And they heard a loud voice out of heaven saying to them, Come up here. And they went up into heaven in the cloud, and their enemies beheld them.
11:13 正在那时候，地大震动，城就倒塌了十分之一，因地震而死的人有七千名，其余的都惊恐，将荣耀归与天上的神。
And in that hour there was a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell; and seven thousand men were killed in the earthquake, and the rest became
terrified and gave glory to the God of heaven.
11:14 第二样灾祸过去，看哪，第三样灾祸快来了。
The second woe has passed; behold, the third woe is coming quickly.
11:15 第七位天使吹号，天上就有大声音说，世上的国，成了我主和祂基督的国，祂要作王，直到永永远远。
And the seventh angel trumpeted; and there were loud voices in heaven, saying, The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of His Christ,
and He will reign forever and ever.
11:16 在神面前，坐在自己宝座上的二十四位长老，就面伏于地敬拜神，说，
And the twenty-four elders who sit before God on their thrones fell on their faces and worshipped God,
11:17 今是昔是的主神，全能者阿，我们感谢你，因你仗着你的大能作王了。
Saying, We thank You, Lord God the Almighty, He who is and who was, because You have taken Your great power and have reigned.
11:18 外邦发怒，你的忿怒也临到了，审判死人，和赏赐你的奴仆众申言者、和众圣徒、并敬畏你名的人，大的小的，以及败坏那些败坏地者的时候也到了。
And the nations became angry, and Your wrath came, and the time came for the dead to be judged, and the time to give the reward to Your slaves the prophets
and to the saints and to those who fear Your name, to the small and to the great, and to destroy those who destroy the earth.
11:19 于是，神天上的殿开了，在祂殿中现出祂的约柜，随后有闪电、声音、雷轰、地震、和大雹。
And the temple of God which is in heaven was opened, and the ark of His covenant was seen in His temple; and there were lightnings and voices and thunders
and an earthquake and great hail.
启示录 Revelation 第 12 章
12:1 天上现出大异象来，有一个妇人身披日头，脚踏月亮，头戴十二星的冠冕。
1182
And a great sign was seen in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon underneath her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars;
12:2 她怀了孕，忍受产难，疼痛要生，就呼叫。
And she was with child, and she cried out, travailing in birth and being in pain to bring forth.
12:3 天上现出另一个异象来，看哪，有一条大红龙，有七头十角，七头上戴着七个冠冕。
And another sign was seen in heaven; and behold, there was a great red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads seven diadems.
12:4 它的尾巴拖拉着天上星辰的三分之一，摔在地上；龙站在那将要生产的妇人面前，等她生产之后，要吞吃她的孩子。
And his tail drags away the third part of the stars of heaven, and he cast them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to bring
forth, so that when she brings forth he might devour her child.
12:5 妇人生了一个男孩子，是将来要用铁杖辖管万国的；她的孩子被提到神和祂的宝座那里去了。
And she brought forth a son, a man-child, who is to shepherd all the nations with an iron rod; and her child was caught up to God and to His throne.
12:6 妇人就逃到旷野，在那里有神给她预备的地方，使她在那里被养活一千二百六十天。
And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place there prepared by God so that they might nourish her there a thousand two hundred and sixty
days.
12:7 天上起了争战，米迦勒和他的使者与龙争战，龙和它的使者也争战，
And there was war in heaven: Michael and his angels went to war with the dragon. And the dragon warred and his angels.
12:8 并没有得胜，天上再没有他们的地方。
And they did not prevail, neither was their place found any longer in heaven.
12:9 大龙就被摔下去，它是那古蛇，名叫魔鬼，又叫撒但，是迷惑普天下的，它被摔在地上，它的使者也一同被摔下去。
And the great dragon was cast down, the ancient serpent, he who is called the Devil and Satan, he who deceives the whole inhabited earth; he was cast to the
earth, and his angels were cast down with him.
12:10 我听见天上有大声音说，我们神的救恩、能力、国度、并祂基督的权柄，现在都来到了，因为那在我们神面前昼夜控告我们弟兄们的控告者，已经
被摔下去了。
And I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now has come the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of His Christ, for the
accuser of our brothers has been cast down, who accuses them before our God day and night.
12:11 弟兄们胜过他，是因羔羊的血，并因自己所见证的话，他们虽至于死，也不爱自己的魂生命。
And they overcame him because of the blood of the Lamb and because of the word of their testimony, and they loved not their soul-life even unto death.
12:12 所以诸天和住在其中的，你们都要欢乐。只是地与海有祸了，因为魔鬼晓得自己的时候不多，就大大发怒下到你们那里去了。
Therefore be glad, O heavens and those who dwell in them. Woe to the earth and the sea because the devil has come down to you and has great rage, knowing
that he has only a short time.
12:13 龙见自己被摔在地上，就逼迫那生男孩子的妇人。
And when the dragon saw that he was cast to the earth, he persecuted the woman who brought forth the man-child.
12:14 于是有大鹰的两个翅膀赐给妇人，叫她能飞到旷野，到自己的地方，躲避那蛇，她在那里被养活一年、二年、半年。
And to the woman there were given the two wings of the great eagle that she might fly into the wilderness into her place, where she is nourished for a time and
times and half a time from the face of the serpent.
12:15 蛇就在妇人身后，从口中吐出水来像河一样，要把妇人冲去。
And the serpent cast water as a river out of his mouth after the woman that he might cause her to be carried away by its current.
12:16 地却帮助妇人，开口吞了从龙口中吐出来的水。
And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed the river which the dragon cast out of his mouth.
12:17 龙向妇人发怒，去与她其余的儿女争战，这些儿女就是那守神诫命，和持守耶稣见证的。那时，龙站在海边的沙上。
And the dragon became angry with the woman and went away to make war with the rest of her seed, who keep the commandments of God and have the
testimony of Jesus.
12:18 那时，龙站在海边的沙上。
And he stood on the sand of the sea.
启示录 Revelation 第 13 章
13:1 我又看见一个兽从海中上来，有十角七头，在十角上戴着十个冠冕，七头上有亵渎的名号。
And I saw a beast coming up out of the sea, having ten horns and seven heads, and on his horns ten diadems, and on his heads names of blasphemy.
13:2 我所看见的兽，形状像豹，脚像熊的脚，口像狮子的口；那龙将自己的能力、座位和大权柄，都给了它。
And the beast which I saw was like a leopard, and his feet like those of a bear, and his mouth like the mouth of a lion. And the dragon gave him his power and
his throne and great authority.
13:3 兽的七头中，有一头似乎被杀至死，但那死伤却医好了。全地的人都希奇，就跟从那兽，
And one of his heads was as it were slain to death, and his death stroke was healed. And the whole earth marveled after the beast.
13:4 又拜那龙，因为它将权柄给了兽；也拜兽说，谁能比这兽？谁能与它争战？
And they worshipped the dragon because he gave his authority to the beast; and they worshipped the beast, saying, Who is like the beast? And who can make
war with him?
13:5 那龙又给它说夸大、亵渎话的口，并给它权柄，可以任意而行四十二个月。
And there was given to him a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies, and authority was given to him to act for forty-two months.
13:6 兽就开口向神说亵渎的话，亵渎神的名、并祂的帐幕、以及那些住在天上的。
And he opened his mouth for blasphemies against God, to blaspheme His name and His tabernacle, which tabernacle in heaven.
13:7 又给兽允许与圣徒争战，并且胜过他们，也给它权柄制伏各支派、各民族、各方言、各邦国。
And permission was given to him to make war with the saints and to overcome them; and authority was given to him over every tribe and people and tongue
and nation.
13:8 凡住在地上，名字没有记在从创世以来被杀之羔羊生命册上的人，都要拜它。
1183
And all those dwelling on the earth will worship him, every one whose name is not written in the book of life of the Lamb who was slain from the foundation of the
world.
13:9 凡有耳的，就应当听。
If anyone has an ear, let him hear.
13:10 掳掠人的，必被掳掠；用刀杀人的，必被刀杀。圣徒的忍耐和信心，就是在此。
If anyone is for captivity, into captivity he goes; if anyone kills with the sword, with the sword he is to be killed. Here is the endurance and the faith of the saints.
13:11 我又看见另一个兽从地里上来，有两角如同羊羔，说话好像龙。
And I saw another beast coming up out of the earth, and he had two horns like a lamb, and he spoke like a dragon.
13:12 它在头一个兽面前，施行头一个兽一切的权柄，并且叫地和住在地上的人，拜那死伤医好的头一个兽。
And he exercises all the authority of the first beast in his sight, and he causes the earth and those who dwell in it to worship the first beast, whose death stroke
was healed.
13:13 又行大奇事，甚至在人面前，叫火从天降在地上。
And he does great signs, so that he even makes fire come down out of heaven to the earth before men.
13:14 它因给它能力在兽面前所行的奇事，就迷惑住在地上的人，吩咐住在地上的人，给那受刀伤还活着的兽作个像。
And he deceives those who dwell on the earth on account of the signs which he was given power to do before the beast, commanding those who dwell on the
earth to make an image to the beast, who had the stroke of the sword and revived.
13:15 又有能力给它使兽像有气息，叫兽像甚至能说话，又能使所有不拜兽像的人都被杀害。
And power was given to him to give breath to the image of the beast that the image of the beast might even speak and cause whoever would not worship the
image of the beast to be killed.
13:16 它又叫众人，无论大小贫富，自主的、为奴的，都在右手或额上，受一个印记。
And he causes all, the small and the great, and the rich and the poor, and the freemen and the slaves, to be given a mark on their right hand or on their
forehead,
13:17 除了那受印记的，就是有了兽名、或兽名数字的，别人都不得作买卖。
And that no one may be able to buy or sell except him who has the mark, that is, the name of the beast or the number of his name.
13:18 在这里需要有智慧。凡有悟性的，可以计算兽的数字，因为这是人的数字，它的数字是六百六十六。
Here is wisdom. Let him who has understanding calculate the number of the beast, for it is the number of a man; and his number is six hundred sixty-six.
启示录 Revelation 第 14 章
14:1 我又观看，看哪，羔羊站在锡安山上，同祂还有十四万四千人，额上都写着祂的名，和祂父的名。
And I saw, and behold, the Lamb standing on Mount Zion, and with Him a hundred and forty-four thousand, having His name and the name of His Father
written on their foreheads.
14:2 我听见从天上有声音，像众水的声音，又像大雷的声音，并且我所听见的，好像弹琴的所弹的琴声。
And I heard a voice out of heaven like the sound of many waters and like the sound of loud thunder; and the voice which I heard was like the sound of harp-
singers playing on their harps.
14:3 他们在宝座前，并在四活物和众长老前唱新歌；除了从地上买来的那十四万四千人以外，没有人能学这歌。
And they sing a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders; and no one could learn the song except the hundred and forty-
four thousand, who have been purchased from the earth.
14:4 这些人未曾与妇女在一起受到玷污，他们原是童身。羔羊无论往那里去，他们都跟随祂。他们是从人间买来的，作初熟的果子归与神和羔羊；
These are they who have not been defiled with women, for they are virgins. These are they who follow the Lamb wherever He may go. These were purchased
from among men as firstfruits to God and to the Lamb.
14:5 在他们口中找不着谎言，他们是没有瑕疵的。
And in their mouth no lie was found; they are without blemish.
14:6 我又看见另一位天使飞在天空顶点，有永远的福音要传给住在地上的人，就是给各邦国、各支派、各方言、各民族。
And I saw another angel flying in mid-heaven, having an eternal gospel to announce to those dwelling on the earth, even to every nation and tribe and tongue
and people,
14:7 他大声说，应当敬畏神，将荣耀归与祂，因祂施行审判的时候已经到了；应当敬拜那创造天地海和众水之泉的。
Saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give Him glory because the hour of His judgment has come; and worship Him who has made heaven and earth and the
sea and the springs of waters.
14:8 又有第二位天使接着说，那叫万国喝她淫乱烈怒之酒的大巴比伦倾倒了！倾倒了！
And another angel, a second one, followed, saying, Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great, who has made all the nations drink of the wine of the fury of her
fornication!
14:9 又有第三位天使接着他们，大声说，若有人拜兽和兽像，在额上、或在手上，受了印记，
And another angel, a third one, followed them, saying with a loud voice, If anyone worships the beast and his image and receives a mark on his forehead or on
his hand,
14:10 这人也必喝神烈怒的酒，此酒调在神忿怒的杯中，纯一不杂；他要在圣天使和羔羊面前，在火与硫磺中受痛苦。
He also shall drink of the wine of the fury of God, which is mixed undiluted in the cup of His wrath; and he shall be tormented in fire and brimstone before the
holy angels and before the Lamb.
14:11 他们受痛苦的烟往上冒，直到永永远远。那些拜兽和兽像，并凡受它名之印记的，昼夜不得安息。
And the smoke of their tormenting goes up forever and ever; and they have no rest day and night, those who worship the beast and his image, and whoever
receives the mark of his name.
14:12 圣徒的忍耐就是在此，他们是守神的诫命，并守对耶稣之信仰的。
Here is the endurance of the saints, those who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus.
14:13 我听见从天上有声音说，你要写下，从今以后，在主里死了的人有福了。那灵说，是的，他们息了自己的劳苦，他们的工作也随着他们。
1184
And I heard a voice out of heaven, saying, Write, Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Yes, says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors;
for their works follow with them.
14:14 我又观看，看哪，有一片白云，云上坐着一位好像人子，头上戴着金冠冕，手里拿着快镰刀。
And I saw, and behold, there was a white cloud, and on the cloud One like the Son of Man sitting, having a golden crown on His head and a sharp sickle in His
hand.
14:15 又有一位天使从殿中出来，向那坐在云上的大声喊着说，伸出你的镰刀来收割，因为收割的时候到了，地上的庄稼已经熟了。
And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to Him who sat on the cloud, Send forth Your sickle and reap, for the hour to reap has come
because the harvest of the earth is ripe.
14:16 那坐在云上的，把镰刀扔在地上，地上的庄稼就被收割了。
And He who sat on the cloud thrust His sickle upon the earth, and the earth was reaped.
14:17 又有一位天使从天上的殿中出来，他也拿着快镰刀。
And another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven, he also having a sharp sickle.
14:18 又有一位天使从祭坛中出来，是有权柄管火的，向拿快镰刀的大声喊着说，伸出你的快镰刀来，收取地上葡萄树累累的果子，因为葡萄熟透了。
And another angel came out of the altar, he who has authority over fire, and he cried with a loud voice to him who had the sharp sickle, saying, Send forth your
sharp sickle and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth, for her grapes are fully ripened.
14:19 那天使就把他的镰刀扔在地上，收取了地上的葡萄，丢在神烈怒的大酒醡中。
And the angel thrust his sickle into the earth and gathered the vine of the earth and cast it into the great winepress of the fury of God.
14:20 那酒醡踹在城外，就有血从酒醡里流出来，高到马的嚼环，远达约三百公里。
And the winepress was trodden outside the city, and blood came out of the winepress up to the bridles of the horses for a thousand six hundred stadia.
启示录 Revelation 第 15 章
15:1 我看见在天上另有一个异象，大而且奇，就是七位天使掌管末了的七灾，因为神的烈怒在这七灾中发尽了。
And I saw another sign in heaven, great and wonderful, seven angels having seven plagues, the last plagues; for in them the fury of God was finished.
15:2 我又看见仿佛有搀杂着火的玻璃海，且看见那些胜了兽和兽像，以及兽名数字的人，都站在玻璃海上，拿着神的琴。
And I saw as it were a glassy sea mingled with fire and those who come away victorious from the beast and from his image and from the number of his name
standing on the glassy sea, having harps of God.
15:3 他们唱着神奴仆摩西的歌、和羔羊的歌，说，主神，全能者，你的作为大哉、奇哉！万国之王，你的道路义哉、诚哉！
And they sing the song of Moses, the slave of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and wonderful are Your works, Lord God the Almighty! Righteous
and true are Your ways, O King of the nations!
15:4 主阿，谁敢不敬畏你，不荣耀你的名？因为独有你是圣的，万民都要来，在你面前敬拜，因你的判决已经显明出来了。
Who will not fear, O Lord, and glorify Your name? For You alone are holy; for all the nations will come and worship before You, for Your righteous judgments have
been manifested.
15:5 这些事以后，我看见在天上那见证之帐幕的殿开了，
And after these things I saw, and the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened,
15:6 那掌管七灾的七位天使，从殿中出来，穿着洁净明亮的细麻衣，胸间束着金带。
And the seven angels who had the seven plagues came out of the temple, clothed in clean bright linen and girded around the breasts with golden girdles.
15:7 四活物中有一个，把盛满了活到永永远远之神烈怒的七个金碗，给了那七位天使。
And one of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the fury of God, who lives forever and ever.
15:8 由于神的荣耀，并由于祂的能力，殿中充满了烟，于是没有人能进殿，直等到那七位天使所降的七灾完毕了。
And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from His power, and no one could enter into the temple until the seven plagues of the seven
angels were finished.
启示录 Revelation 第 16 章
16:1 我听见有大声音从殿中出来，向那七位天使说，你们去，把盛神烈怒的七碗倒在地上。
And I heard a loud voice out of the temple, saying to the seven angels, Go and pour out the seven bowls of the fury of God into the earth.
16:2 第一位天使便去，把碗倒在地上，就有又恶又毒的疮，生在那些有兽印记，并拜兽像的人身上。
And the first went and poured out his bowl into the earth; and there came to be an evil and malignant sore upon the men who have the mark of the beast and
worship his image.
16:3 第二位天使把碗倒在海里，海就变成血，好像死人的血，海中所有的生物都死了。
And the second poured out his bowl into the sea, and it became blood like that of a dead man; and every living soul that was in the sea died.
16:4 第三位天使把碗倒在江河与众水的泉里，水就变成血了。
And the third poured out his bowl into the rivers and the springs of waters; and they became blood.
16:5 我听见掌管众水的天使说，今是昔是的圣者，你这样审判是公义的；
And I heard the angel who had power over the waters saying, You are righteous, who is and who was, the Holy One, because You have judged these things;
16:6 因为他们曾流圣徒与申言者的血，你也给了他们血喝，这是他们所该受的。
For they poured out the blood of saints and prophets, and You have given them blood to drink; they are worthy of it.
16:7 我又听见祭坛中有声音说，是的，主神，全能者，你的审判诚哉、义哉！
And I heard the altar saying, Yes, Lord God the Almighty, true and righteous are Your judgments.
16:8 第四位天使把碗倒在日头上，又给日头用火烤人。
And the fourth poured out his bowl upon the sun; and it was given to it to burn men with fire.
16:9 人被大热所烤，就亵渎那有权掌管这些灾之神的名，并不悔改将荣耀归与神。
1185
And men were burned with great heat, and they blasphemed the name of God, who has the authority over these plagues, and they did not repent so as to give
Him glory.
16:10 第五位天使把碗倒在兽的座位上，兽的国就黑暗了；人由于疼痛就咬自己的舌头，
And the fifth poured out his bowl upon the throne of the beast; and his kingdom became darkened; and they gnawed their tongues for pain
16:11 又由于所受的疼痛，和所生的疮，就亵渎天上的神，并不悔改自己所行的。
And blasphemed the God of heaven for their pains and for their sores; and they did not repent of their works.
16:12 第六位天使把碗倒在伯拉大河上，河水就干了，要给那来自日出之地的众王预备道路。
And the sixth poured out his bowl upon the great river Euphrates; and its water was dried up that the way of the kings from the rising of the sun might be
prepared.
16:13 我又看见三个污灵，好像青蛙，由龙口，由兽口，并由假申言者的口中出来；
And I saw, out of the mouth of the dragon and out of the mouth of the beast and out of the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits as frogs;
16:14 它们本是鬼的灵，施行奇事，出去到普天下众王那里，叫他们在神全能者的大日聚拢争战。
For they are spirits of demons doing signs, which go forth to the kings of the whole inhabited earth to gather them to the war of the great day of God the Almighty.
16:15 （看哪，我来像贼一样。那儆醒、看守自己衣服，免得赤身而行，叫人见他羞耻的，有福了。）
(Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he who watches and keeps his garments that he may not walk naked and they see his shame.)
16:16 那三个鬼的灵便叫众王聚拢在一个地方，希伯来话叫作哈米吉顿。
And they gathered them to the place which in Hebrew is called, Armageddon.
16:17 第七位天使把碗倒在空中，就有大声音从殿中的宝座上出来，说，成了！
And the seventh poured out his bowl upon the air; and a loud voice came out of the temple from the throne, saying, It is done.
16:18 又有闪电、声音、雷轰，且有大地震，自从地上有人以来，从来没有发生过这样大的地震。
And there were lightnings and voices and thunders; and there was a great earthquake, such as had not been since man appeared on the earth, such an
earthquake, so great.
16:19 那大城裂为三段，列国的城也都倒塌了；神也想起大巴比伦来，要把那盛自己烈怒之酒的杯递给她。
And the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell. And Babylon the Great was remembered before God to give her the cup of the
wine of the fury of His wrath.
16:20 各海岛都逃避了，众山也不见了。
And every island fled, and the mountains were not found.
16:21 又有大雹子从天落在人身上，每一个约重一他连得；由于这雹子的灾极大，人就亵渎神。
And great hail, every stone about the weight of a talent, came down out of heaven upon men; and men blasphemed God for the plague of the hail, because the
plague of it is exceedingly great.
启示录 Revelation 第 17 章
17:1 拿着七碗的七位天使中，有一位来同我说话，说，你来，我要将坐在众水之上的大妓女所要受的刑罚，指给你看。
And one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and spoke with me, saying, Come here; I will show you the judgment of the great harlot who sits
upon the many waters,
17:2 地上的君王向来与她行淫，住在地上的人喝醉了她淫乱的酒。
With whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication, and those who dwell on the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her fornication.
17:3 我在灵里，天使带我到旷野去；我就看见一个女人骑在朱红色的兽上，那兽满了亵渎的名号，有七头十角。
And he carried me away in spirit into a wilderness; and I saw a woman sitting upon a scarlet beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten
horns.
17:4 那女人穿着紫色和朱红色的衣服，用金子、宝石、珍珠为妆饰，手中拿着金杯，盛满了可憎之物，并她淫乱的污秽。
And the woman was clothed in purple and scarlet, and gilded with gold and precious stone and pearls, having in her hand a golden cup full of abominations
and the unclean things of her fornication.
17:5 在她额上有名写着：奥秘哉！大巴比伦，地上妓女和可憎之物的母。
And on her forehead there was a name written, MYSTERY, Babylon The Great, The MOTHER Of The HARLOTS And The ABOMINATIONS Of The EARTH.
17:6 我又看见那女人喝醉了圣徒的血，和耶稣见证人的血；我看见她，就大大的希奇。
And I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the witnesses of Jesus. And I marveled with great marvel when I saw her.
17:7 天使对我说，你为什么希奇？我要将这女人，和驮着她的那七头十角兽的奥秘告诉你。
And the angel said to me, Why did you marvel? I will tell you the mystery of the woman and of the beast who bears her, who has the seven heads and the ten
horns.
17:8 你所看见的兽，先前有，如今没有；它将要从无底坑里上来，又要去到灭亡。凡住在地上，名字从创世以来没有记在生命册上的，见那先前有，如今
没有，将来还要有的兽，就必希奇。
The beast that you saw was and is not and is about to come up out of the abyss and go into perdition. And those who dwell on the earth, those whose name is
not written from the foundation of the world in the book of life, will marvel when they see the beast, that he was and is not and will be present.
17:9 在此需要有智慧的心思。那七头就是女人所坐的七座山，
Here is the mind which has wisdom. The seven heads are the seven mountains where the woman sits
17:10 又是七位王。五位已经倾倒了，一位还在，另一位还没有来到，他来的时候，必须存留片时。
And are seven kings: five have fallen, one is, the other has not yet come; and when he comes, he must remain only a short time.
17:11 那先前有，如今没有的兽，就是第八位；它是出于那七位，且要去到灭亡。
And the beast who was and is not, he himself is also the eighth and is out of the seven and goes into perdition.
17:12 你所看见的那十角，就是十王，他们还没有得国；但他们要和兽同得权柄，作王一个小时。
And the ten horns which you saw are ten kings, who have not yet received a kingdom but receive authority as kings for one hour with the beast.
17:13 他们心意一致，将自己的能力权柄给那兽。
These have one mind, and they give their power and authority to the beast.
1186
17:14 他们要与羔羊争战，羔羊必胜过他们，因为羔羊是万主之主，万王之王。同着羔羊的，就是蒙召被选忠信的人，也必得胜。
These will make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb will overcome them, for He is Lord of lords and King of kings; and they who are with Him, the called and
chosen and faithful, will also overcome them.
17:15 天使又对我说，你所看见那妓女坐着的众水，就是多民族、多群众、多邦国、多方言。
And he said to me, The waters which you saw, where the harlot sits, are peoples and multitudes and nations and tongues.
17:16 你所看见的那十角与兽，必恨这妓女，使她荒凉赤身，又要吃她的肉，用火将她烧尽。
And the ten horns which you saw and the beast, these will hate the harlot and will make her desolate and naked and will eat her flesh and burn her utterly with
fire.
17:17 因为神将意念放在诸王的心中，要他们行祂的心意，并心意一致，且把自己的国给那兽，直等到神的话都成就了。
For God has put it into their hearts to perform His mind and to perform one mind and to give their kingdom to the beast until the words of God are accomplished.
17:18 你所看见的那女人，就是有国权辖管地上众王的大城。
And the woman whom you saw is the great city, which has a kingdom over the kings of the earth.
启示录 Revelation 第 18 章
18:1 这些事以后，我看见另一位有大权柄的天使从天降下，地就因祂的荣耀发光。
After these things I saw another Angel coming down out of heaven, having great authority; and the earth was illumined with His glory.
18:2 祂用强有力的声音喊着说，大巴比伦倾倒了！倾倒了！成了鬼的居所，和各样污秽之灵的巢穴，并各样污秽可恨之鸟的巢穴，
And He cried with a strong voice, saying, Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great! And she has become a dwelling place of demons and a hold of every unclean spirit
and a hold of every unclean and hateful bird;
18:3 因为万国都喝醉了她淫乱烈怒的酒；地上的君王向来与她行淫，地上的商人因她奢华过度都发了财。
For all the nations have drunk of the wine of the fury of her fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the
earth have become rich by the power of her luxury.
18:4 我又听见从天上另有声音说，我的民，你们要从那城出来，免得有分于她的罪，受她所受的灾害。
And I heard another voice out of heaven, saying, Come out of her, My people, that you do not participate in her sins and that you do not receive her plagues;
18:5 因她的罪恶滔天，神已经想起她的不义来了。
For her sins have accumulated up to heaven, and God has remembered her unrighteousnesses.
18:6 她怎样待人，你们也要怎样待她，按她所行的加倍报应她，用她调酒的杯，加倍调给她喝。
Pay her back even as she has paid, and double to her double according to her works; in the cup which she has mixed, mix to her double.
18:7 她怎样荣耀自己，怎样奢华，你们也当叫她照样痛苦悲哀；因她心里说，我坐着作皇后，并不是寡妇，绝不会见到悲哀。
As much as she has glorified herself and lived luxuriously, as much torment and sorrow give to her; for she says in her heart, I sit a queen, and I am not a widow,
and I shall by no means see sorrow.
18:8 所以在一日之内，她的灾害要一起来到，就是死亡、悲哀、饥荒，她又要被火烧尽，因为审判她的主神大有力量。
Therefore in one day her plagues will come, death and sorrow and famine, and she will be utterly burned with fire; for the Lord God who judges her is strong.
18:9 地上的君王，向来与她一同行淫、奢华的，看见烧她的烟，就必为她哭泣捶胸；
And the kings of the earth, who have committed fornication and lived luxuriously with her, will weep and lament over her when they see the smoke of her burning,
18:10 因惧怕她所受的痛苦，就远远的站着，说，祸哉！祸哉！巴比伦大城，坚固的城，一个小时之间你的刑罚就来到了。
Standing afar off because of fear of her torment, saying, Woe, woe, the great city, Babylon, the strong city, for in one hour your judgment has come!
18:11 地上的商人也都为她哭泣悲哀，因为没有人再买他们的货物了。
And the merchants of the earth weep and mourn over her because no one buys their cargo anymore:
18:12 这货物就是金、银、宝石、珍珠、细麻布、紫色料、丝绸、朱红色料、各样香木、各样象牙器具、各样极宝贵的木器、铜器、铁器、大理石器具、
Cargo of gold and silver and precious stone and pearls and fine linen and purple and silk and scarlet, and every kind of thyine wood, and every vessel of ivory,
and every vessel of most precious wood and brass and iron and marble,
18:13 并肉桂、豆蔻、香料、香膏、乳香、酒、油、细面、麦子、牲口、羊、马、车、奴仆、人口。
And cinnamon and amomum and incense and ointment and frankincense and wine and oil and fine flour and wheat and cattle and sheep, and cargo of horses
and chariots and slaves and souls of men.
18:14 你魂所贪恋的熟果离开了你；一切的珍馐美味和华丽的美物，也从你中间毁灭，绝不能再找到了。
And the ripe fruits of your soul's lust have gone away from you, and all the sumptuous and splendid things have perished from you; and men will find them no
more at all.
18:15 贩卖这些货物，藉她致富的商人，因惧怕她所受的痛苦，就远远的站着，哭泣悲哀，说，
The merchants of these things, who became rich by her, will stand afar off because of the fear of her torment, weeping and mourning,
18:16 祸哉！祸哉！这素来穿着细麻、紫色、朱红色的衣服，又用金子、宝石和珍珠为妆饰的大城；
Saying, Woe, woe, the great city, which was clothed in fine linen and purple and scarlet, and gilded with gold and precious stone and pearl;
18:17 一个小时之间，这么大的财富竟成了荒凉。凡船长和坐船往各处去的，并众水手，连所有靠海为业的，都远远的站着，
For in one hour such great wealth has become desolate! And every ship captain and everyone sailing to a place and sailors and all who work on the sea stood
afar off
18:18 看见烧她的烟，就喊着说，有何城能比这大城？
And cried out, seeing the smoke of her burning, saying, What city is like the great city?
18:19 他们又把尘土撒在头上，哭泣悲哀，喊着说，祸哉！祸哉！这大城，凡有船在海中的，都因她的财宝致富，她在一个小时之间竟成了荒场。
And they cast dust on their heads and cried out, weeping and mourning, saying, Woe, woe, the great city, by which all those who have ships on the sea became
rich from her wealth, for in one hour she has become desolate!
18:20 天哪，众圣徒、众使徒、众申言者阿，你们都要因她欢喜，因为神已经审判她，为你们伸了冤。
Be glad over her, O heaven and saints and apostles and prophets, because God has judged judgment for you upon her.
18:21 有一位大力的天使举起一块石头，好像大磨石，扔在海里，说，巴比伦大城，也必这样猛力的被扔下去，绝不能再找到了。
1187
And a strong angel took up a stone like a great millstone and threw it into the sea, saying, Thus will Babylon, the great city, be thrown down with violence and
shall be found no more at all.
18:22 弹琴者、作乐者、吹笛者、吹号者的声音，在你中间绝不能再听见了，各行手艺人在你中间绝不能再找到了，推磨的声音在你中间绝不能再听见了，
And the sound of harp-singers and musicians and flutists and trumpeters shall be heard no more at all in you, and no craftsman of any craft shall be found any
more at all in you, and the sound of a millstone shall be heard no more at all in you,
18:23 灯光在你中间绝不能再照耀了，新郎和新妇的声音，在你中间绝不能再听见了；你的商人原是地上的大人物，万国都被你的邪术迷惑了。
And the light of a lamp shall shine no more at all in you, and the voice of bridegroom and bride shall be heard no more at all in you; for your merchants were the
great ones of the earth, for by your sorcery all the nations were deceived.
18:24 申言者和圣徒、并地上一切被杀之人的血，都在这城里看见了。
And in her was found the blood of prophets and of saints and of all who have been slain on the earth.
启示录 Revelation 第 19 章
19:1 这些事以后，我听见天上仿佛有大批的群众，大声说，阿利路亚！救恩、荣耀、能力，都属于我们的神。
After these things I heard as it were a loud voice of a great multitude in heaven, saying, Hallelujah! The salvation and the glory and the power are of our God.
19:2 祂的审判是真实、公义的，因祂审判了那用淫乱败坏全地的大妓女，并且向她为祂的奴仆伸了流血的冤。
For true and righteous are His judgments; for He has judged the great harlot who corrupted the earth with her fornication, and He avenged the blood of His
slaves at her hand.
19:3 第二次又说，阿利路亚！烧妓女的烟往上冒，直到永永远远。
And a second time they said, Hallelujah! And her smoke goes up forever and ever.
19:4 那二十四位长老与四活物，就俯伏敬拜那坐宝座的神，说，阿们，阿利路亚！
And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshipped God, who sits upon the throne, saying, Amen, Hallelujah!
19:5 有声音从宝座出来，说，神的众奴仆，凡敬畏祂的，无论大小，都要赞美我们的神。
And a voice came out from the throne, saying, Praise our God, all His slaves and those who fear Him, the small and the great.
19:6 我听见好像大批群众的声音，又像众水的声音，也像大雷的声音，说，阿利路亚！因为主我们的神，全能者，作王了。
And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude and like the sound of many waters and like the sound of mighty thunders, saying, Hallelujah! For the Lord our
God the Almighty reigns.
19:7 我们要喜乐欢腾，将荣耀归与祂；因为羔羊婚娶的时候到了，新妇也自己预备好了。
Let us rejoice and exult, and let us give the glory to Him, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and His wife has made herself ready.
19:8 又赐她得穿明亮洁净的细麻衣，这细麻衣就是圣徒所行的义。
And it was given to her that she should be clothed in fine linen, bright and clean; for the fine linen is the righteousnesses of the saints.
19:9 天使对我说，你要写上，凡被请赴羔羊婚筵的有福了。又对我说，这是神真实的话。
And he said to me, Write, Blessed are they who are called to the marriage dinner of the Lamb. And he said to me, These are the true words of God.
19:10 我就俯伏在他脚前要拜他。他说，千万不可。我和你并你那些持守耶稣见证的弟兄，同是作奴仆的；你要敬拜神！因为耶稣的见证乃是预言的灵。
And I fell before his feet to worship him. And he said to me, Do not do this. I am your fellow slave and a fellow slave of your brothers who have the testimony of
Jesus. Worship God. For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of the prophecy.
19:11 我看见天开了，并且看哪，有一匹白马，骑在马上的，称为忠信真实，祂审判、争战都凭着公义。
And I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse, and He who sits on it called Faithful and True, and in righteousness He judges and makes war.
19:12 祂的眼睛如火焰，头上戴着许多冠冕，又有写着的名字，除了祂自己没有人晓得。
And His eyes are a flame of fire, and on His head are many diadems, and He has a name written which no one knows but Himself.
19:13 祂穿着蘸过血的衣服，祂的名称为神的话。
And He is clothed with a garment dipped in blood; and His name is called the Word of God.
19:14 在天上的众军，骑着白马，穿着细麻衣，又白又洁，跟随着祂。
And the armies which are in heaven followed Him on white horses, dressed in fine linen, white and clean.
19:15 有利剑从祂口中出来，可以用以击杀列国；祂必用铁杖辖管他们，并要踹全能神烈怒的酒醡。
And out of His mouth proceeds a sharp sword, that with it He might smite the nations; and He will shepherd them with an iron rod; and He treads the winepress
of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty.
19:16 在祂衣服和大腿上，有名字写着：万王之王，万主之主。
And He has on His garment and on His thigh a name written, King Of KINGS And Lord Of LORDS.
19:17 我又看见一位天使站在日头中，向天空顶点所有的飞鸟大声喊着说，你们来，聚集起来赴神的大筵席，
And I saw an angel standing in the sun, and he cried out with a loud voice, saying to all the birds that fly in mid-heaven, Come here; gather yourselves to the
great dinner of God,
19:18 好吃君王的肉、将军的肉、壮士的肉、马和骑马者的肉、并一切自主的、为奴的、以及大小人民的肉。
That you may eat the flesh of kings and the flesh of generals and the flesh of mighty men and the flesh of horses and of those who sit on them and the flesh of all
men, both free and slave and small and great.
19:19 我看见那兽和地上的君王、并他们的众军都聚拢，要与骑白马的并祂的军兵争战。
And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered together to make war with Him who sits on the horse and with His army.
19:20 那兽被擒拿，那在兽面前曾行奇事，藉此迷惑受兽印记，并拜兽像之人的假申言者，也与兽同被擒拿。他们两个就活活的被扔在烧着硫磺的火湖里。
And the beast was seized, and with him the false prophet, who in his presence had done the signs by which he deceived those who received the mark of the
beast and those who worshipped his image. These two were cast alive into the lake of fire, which burns with brimstone.
19:21 其余的被骑白马者口中出来的剑杀了，所有的飞鸟都吃饱了他们的肉。
And the rest were killed with the sword which proceeds out of the mouth of Him who sits on the horse, and all the birds were filled with their flesh.
1188
启示录 Revelation 第 20 章
20:1 我又看见一位天使从天降下，手里拿着无底坑的钥匙，和一条大锁炼。
And I saw an angel coming down out of heaven, having the key of the abyss and a great chain in his hand.
20:2 他捉住那龙，就是古蛇，也就是魔鬼，撒但，把他捆绑一千年，
And he laid hold of the dragon, the ancient serpent, who is the Devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years
20:3 扔在无底坑里，关起来，封上印，使他不得再迷惑列国，等那一千年完了；以后必须暂时释放他。
And cast him into the abyss and shut it and sealed it over him, that he might not deceive the nations any longer until the thousand years were completed; after
these things he must be loosed for a little while.
20:4 我又看见几个宝座和坐在上面的，有审判的权柄赐给他们。我又看见那些为耶稣的见证、并为神的话被斩者，以及那些没有拜过兽与兽像，额上和手
上也没有受过它印记之人的魂，他们都活了，与基督一同作王一千年。
And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given to them. And I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded because of the testimony of
Jesus and because of the word of God, and of those who had not worshipped the beast nor his image, and had not received the mark on their forehead and on
their hand; and they lived and reigned with Christ for a thousand years.
20:5 这是头一次的复活。其余的死人还没有复活，直等那一千年完了。
The rest of the dead did not live again until the thousand years were completed. This is the first resurrection.
20:6 在头一次复活有分的有福了，圣别了，第二次的死在他们身上没有权柄；他们还要作神和基督的祭司，并要与基督一同作王一千年。
Blessed and holy is he who has part in the first resurrection; over these the second death has no authority, but they will be priests of God and of Christ and will
reign with Him for a thousand years.
20:7 那一千年完了，撒但必从监牢里被释放，
And when the thousand years are completed, Satan will be released from his prison
20:8 要出来迷惑地上四方的列国，就是歌革和玛各，叫他们聚集争战，他们的数目多如海沙。
And will go out to deceive the nations which are in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together for the war. Their number is like that of
the sand of the sea.
20:9 他们上来遍满了全地，围住圣徒的营，与蒙爱的城，就有火从天降下，烧灭了他们。
And they went up upon the breadth of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city; and fire came down out of heaven and devoured
them.
20:10 那迷惑他们的魔鬼，被扔在硫磺火湖里，也就是兽和假申言者所在的地方；他们必昼夜受痛苦，直到永永远远。
And the devil, who deceived them, was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where also the beast and the false prophet were; and they will be tormented day
and night forever and ever.
20:11 我又看见一个白色的大宝座和那坐在上面的，从祂面前天地都逃遁，再无可见之处了。
And I saw a great white throne and Him who sat upon it, from whose face earth and heaven fled away, and no place was found for them.
20:12 我又看见死了的，无论大小，都站在宝座前。案卷展开了，并且另有一卷展开，就是生命册。死了的都凭着这些案卷所记载的，照他们所行的受审
判。
And I saw the dead, the great and the small, standing before the throne, and scrolls were opened; and another scroll was opened, which is the book of life. And
the dead were judged by the things which were written in the scrolls, according to their works.
20:13 于是海交出其中的死者，死亡和阴间也交出其中的死者，他们都各自照所行的受审判。
And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and Hades gave up the dead which were in them; and they were judged, each of them, according to
their works.
20:14 死亡和阴间也被扔在火湖里，这火湖就是第二次的死。
And death and Hades were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire.
20:15 无论谁在生命册上不见是记着的，就被扔在火湖里。
And if anyone was not found written in the book of life, he was cast into the lake of fire.
启示录 Revelation 第 21 章
21:1 我又看见一个新天新地；因为第一个天和第一个地已经过去了，海也不再有了。
And I saw a new heaven and a new earth; for the first heaven and the first earth passed away, and the sea is no more.
21:2 我又看见圣城新耶路撒冷由神那里从天而降，预备好了，就如新妇妆饰整齐，等候丈夫。
And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
21:3 我听见有大声音从宝座出来，说，看哪，神的帐幕与人同在，祂要与人同住，他们要作祂的百姓，神要亲自与他们同在，作他们的神。
And I heard a loud voice out of the throne, saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and He will tabernacle with them, and they will be His peoples, and
God Himself will be with them and be their God.
21:4 神要从他们眼中擦去一切的眼泪，不再有死亡，也不再有悲哀、哭号、疼痛，因为先前的事都过去了。
And He will wipe away every tear from their eyes; and death will be no more, nor will there be sorrow or crying or pain anymore; for the former things have
passed away.
21:5 坐宝座的说，看哪，我将一切都更新了。又说，你要写上，因这些话是可信的，是真实的。
And He who sits on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And He said, Write, for these words are faithful and true.
21:6 祂又对我说，都成了。我是阿拉法，我是俄梅嘎；我是初，我是终。我要将生命泉的水白白赐给那口渴的人喝。
And He said to me, They have come to pass. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End. I will give to him who thirsts from the spring of the water
of life freely.
21:7 得胜的，必承受这些为业，我要作他的神，他要作我的儿子。
He who overcomes will inherit these things, and I will be God to him, and he will be a son to Me.
21:8 惟有胆怯的、不信的、可憎的、杀人的、淫乱的、行邪术的、拜偶像的、和一切虚谎的，他们的分就在烧着硫磺的火湖里；这是第二次的死。
1189
But the cowardly and unbelieving and abominable and murderers and fornicators and sorcerers and idolaters and all the false, their part will be in the lake which
burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death.
21:9 拿着七个金碗，盛满末后七灾的七位天使中，有一位来对我说，你来，我要将新妇，就是羔羊的妻，指给你看。
And one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues came and spoke with me, saying, Come here; I will show you the bride, the
wife of the Lamb.
21:10 我在灵里，天使带我到一座高大的山，将那由神那里从天而降的圣城耶路撒冷指给我看。
And he carried me away in spirit onto a great and high mountain and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God,
21:11 城中有神的荣耀；城的光辉如同极贵的宝石，好像碧玉，明如水晶；
Having the glory of God. Her light was like a most precious stone, like a jasper stone, as clear as crystal.
21:12 有高大的墙；有十二个门，门上有十二位天使；门上又写着以色列十二个支派的名字；
It had a great and high wall and had twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names inscribed, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of
Israel:
21:13 东边有三门，北边有三门，南边有三门，西边有三门。
On the east three gates, and on the north three gates, and on the south three gates, and on the west three gates.
21:14 城墙有十二根基，根基上有羔羊十二使徒的十二个名字。
And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
21:15 同我说话的拿着金苇子当尺，要量那城、和城门城墙。
And he who spoke with me had a golden reed as a measure that he might measure the city and its gates and its wall.
21:16 城是四方的，长宽一样；天使用苇子量那城，共有一万二千斯泰底亚，长宽高都相等。
And the city lies square, and its length is as great as the breadth. And he measured the city with the reed to a length of twelve thousand stadia; the length and
the breadth and the height of it are equal.
21:17 又量了城墙，按着人的尺寸，就是天使的尺寸，共有一百四十四肘。
And he measured its wall, a hundred and forty-four cubits, according to the measure of a man, that is, of an angel.
21:18 墙是用碧玉造的，城是纯金的，如同明净的玻璃。
And the building work of its wall was jasper; and the city was pure gold, like clear glass.
21:19 城墙的根基是用各样宝石装饰的。第一根基是碧玉，第二是蓝宝石，第三是玛瑙，第四是绿宝石，
The foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every precious stone: the first foundation was jasper; the second, sapphire; the third, chalcedony; the
fourth, emerald;
21:20 第五是红玛瑙，第六是红宝石，第七是黄璧玺，第八是水苍玉，第九是黄玉，第十是翡翠，第十一是紫玛瑙，第十二是紫晶。
The fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, chrysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, topaz; the tenth, chrysoprase; the eleventh, jacinth; the twelfth, amethyst.
21:21 十二个门是十二颗珍珠，每一个门各自是一颗珍珠造的，城内的街道是纯金，好像透明的玻璃。
And the twelve gates were twelve pearls; each one of the gates was, respectively, of one pearl. And the street of the city was pure gold, like transparent glass.
21:22 我未见城内有殿，因主神全能者和羔羊为城的殿。
And I saw no temple in it, for the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb are its temple.
21:23 那城内不需要日月光照，因有神的荣耀光照，又有羔羊为城的灯。
And the city has no need of the sun or of the moon that they should shine in it, for the glory of God illumined it, and its lamp is the Lamb.
21:24 列国要借着城的光行走，地上的君王必将自己的荣耀带进那城。
And the nations will walk by its light; and the kings of the earth bring their glory into it.
21:25 城门白昼总不关闭，在那里原没有黑夜。
And its gates shall by no means be shut by day, for there will be no night there.
21:26 人必将列国的荣耀尊贵带进那城。
And they will bring the glory and the honor of the nations into it.
21:27 凡俗污的，并那行可憎与虚谎之事的，绝不得进那城，只有记在羔羊生命册上的，才得进去。
And anything common and he who makes an abomination and a lie shall by no means enter into it, but only those who are written in the Lamb's book of life.
启示录 Revelation 第 22 章
22:1 天使又指给我看在城内街道当中一道生命水的河，明亮如水晶，从神和羔羊的宝座流出来。
And he showed me a river of water of life, bright as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb in the middle of its street.
22:2 在河这边与那边有生命树，生产十二样果子，每月都结出果子，树上的叶子乃为医治万民。
And on this side and on that side of the river was the tree of life, producing twelve fruits, yielding its fruit each month; and the leaves of the tree are for the healing
of the nations.
22:3 一切咒诅必不再有。在城里有神和羔羊的宝座；祂的奴仆都要事奉祂，
And there will no longer be a curse. And the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and His slaves will serve Him;
22:4 也要见祂的面；祂的名字必在他们的额上。
And they will see His face, and His name will be on their foreheads.
22:5 不再有黑夜，他们也不需要灯光日光，因为主神要光照他们；他们要作王，直到永永远远。
And night will be no more; and they have no need of the light of a lamp and of the light of the sun, for the Lord God will shine upon them; and they will reign
forever and ever.
22:6 天使又对我说，这些话是可信真实的；主，就是众申言者之灵的神，差遣祂的使者，将那必要快发生的事指示祂的奴仆。
And he said to me, These words are faithful and true; and the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, has sent His angel to show to His slaves the things
which must quickly take place.
22:7 看哪，我必快来！凡遵守这书上预言之话的有福了。
And behold, I come quickly. Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this scroll.
22:8 我约翰就是那听见又看见这些事的，我听见又看见了，就在将这些事指给我看的天使脚前，俯伏要拜他。
1190
And I John am he who hears and sees these things. And when I heard and saw, I fell to worship before the feet of the angel who showed me these things.
22:9 他对我说，千万不可。我与你、和你的弟兄众申言者、并那些守这书上之话的人，同是作奴仆的，你要敬拜神。
And he said to me, Do not do that! I am your fellow slave and a fellow slave of your brothers the prophets and of those who keep the words of this scroll. Worship
God.
22:10 他又对我说，不可封住这书上预言的话，因为时候近了。
And he said to me, Do not seal the words of the prophecy of this scroll, for the time is near.
22:11 行不义的，叫他仍旧行不义；污秽的，叫他仍旧行污秽；义的，叫他仍旧行义；圣别的，叫他仍旧圣别。
Let him who does unrighteousness do unrighteousness still; and let him who is filthy be filthy still; and let him who is righteous do righteousness still; and let him
who is holy be holy still.
22:12 看哪，我必快来！赏罚在我，我要照各人所行的报应他。
Behold, I come quickly, and My reward is with Me to render to each one as his work is.
22:13 我是阿拉法，我是俄梅嘎；我是首先的，我是末后的；我是初，我是终。
I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last, the Beginning and the End.
22:14 那些洗净自己袍子的有福了，可得权柄到生命树那里，也能从门进城。
Blessed are those who wash their robes that they may have right to the tree of life and may enter by the gates into the city.
22:15 城外有那些犬类、行邪术的、淫乱的、杀人的、拜偶像的、和一切喜好并编造谎言的。
Outside are the dogs and the sorcerers and the fornicators and the murderers and the idolaters and everyone who loves and makes a lie.
22:16 我耶稣差遣我的使者，为众召会将这些事向你们作见证。我是大卫的根，又是他的后裔，我是明亮的晨星。
I Jesus have sent My angel to testify to you these things for the churches. I am the Root and the Offspring of David, the bright morning star.
22:17 那灵和新妇说，来！听见的人也该说，来！口渴的人也当来；愿意的都可以白白取生命的水喝。
And the Spirit and the bride say, Come! And let him who hears say, Come! And let him who is thirsty come; let him who wills take the water of life freely.
22:18 我向一切听见这书上预言之话的作见证：若有人在这话上加添什么，神必将写在这书上的灾害加在他身上；
I testify to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this scroll: If anyone adds to them, God will add to him the plagues which are written in this scroll;
22:19 若有人从这书上预言的话删去什么，神必从这书上所写的生命树和圣城，删去他的分。
And if anyone takes away from the words of the scroll of this prophecy, God will take away his part from the tree of life and out of the holy city, which are written
in this scroll.
22:20 见证这些事的说，是的，我必快来！阿们。主耶稣阿，我愿你来！
He who testifies these things says, Yes, I come quickly. Amen. Come, Lord Jesus!
22:21 愿主耶稣的恩与众圣徒同在。阿们。
The grace of the Lord Jesus be with all the saints. Amen.