46. 哥林多前书 1 Corinthians
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 1 章
1:1 凭神旨意，蒙召作基督耶稣使徒的保罗，和弟兄所提尼，
Paul, a called apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, and Sosthenes the brother,
1:2 写信给在哥林多神的召会，就是给在基督耶稣里被圣别，蒙召的圣徒，同着所有在各处呼求我们主耶稣基督之名的人；祂是他们的，也是我们的；
To the church of God which is in Corinth, to those who have been sanctified in Christ Jesus, the called saints, with all those who call upon the name of our Lord
Jesus Christ in every place, who is theirs and ours:
1:3 愿恩典与平安，从神我们的父，并主耶稣基督归与你们。
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1:4 我因神在基督耶稣里所赐给你们的恩典，常常为你们感谢我的神，
I thank my God always concerning you based upon the grace of God which was given to you in Christ Jesus,
1:5 因为你们在基督里，在一切的发表和知识上，样样都得以富足，
That in everything you were enriched in Him, in all utterance and all knowledge,
1:6 正如我们为基督所作的见证，在你们里面得以坚固，
Even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you,
1:7 以致你们在恩赐上一无所缺，热切等待我们主耶稣基督的显现；
So that you do not lack in any gift, eagerly awaiting the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ,
1:8 祂也必坚固你们到底，使你们在我们主耶稣基督的日子无可指责。
Who will also confirm you until the end unreprovable in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1:9 神是信实的，你们乃是为祂所召，进入了祂儿子我们主耶稣基督的交通。
God is faithful, through whom you were called into the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.
1:10 弟兄们，我藉我们主耶稣基督的名，恳求你们都说一样的话，你们中间也不可有分裂，只要在一样的心思和一样的意见里，彼此和谐。
Now I beseech you, brothers, through the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing and that there be no divisions among you, but that you
be attuned in the same mind and in the same opinion.
1:11 因为，我的弟兄们，革来氏家里的人曾对我提到你们的事，说你们中间有争竞。
For it has been made clear to me concerning you, my brothers, by those of the household of Chloe, that there are strifes among you.
1:12 我是说，你们各人说，我是属保罗的，我是属亚波罗的，我是属矶法的，我是属基督的。
Now I mean this, that each of you says, I am of Paul, and I of Apollos, and I of Cephas, and I of Christ.
1:13 基督是分开的么？保罗为你们钉了十字架么？或者你们是浸入保罗的名里么？
Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized into the name of Paul?
1:14 我感谢神，除了基利司布并该犹以外，我没有浸过你们一个人，
I thank God that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius,
1:15 免得有人说，你们是浸入我的名里。
That no one may say that you were baptized into my name.
1:16 我也浸过司提反家；此外浸过别人没有，我就记不得了。
And I did baptize the household of Stephanas also; beyond that I do not know if I baptized any other.
1:17 基督差遣我，原不是为施浸，乃是为传福音；并不用言论的智慧，免得基督的十字架落了空。
For Christ did not send me to baptize but to announce the gospel, not in wisdom of speech that the cross of Christ may not be made void.
1:18 因为十字架的话，对那正在灭亡的人为愚拙，对我们正在得救的人却为神的大能。
For the word of the cross is to those who are perishing foolishness, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God.
1:19 因为经上记着：“我要灭绝智慧人的智慧，废弃通达人的通达。”
For it is written, "I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the understanding of those who understand I will set aside.''
1:20 智慧人在哪里？经学家在哪里？这世代的辩士在哪里？神岂不是使世上的智慧成为愚拙么？
Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this age? Has not God made the wisdom of the world foolish?
1:21 既然照着神的智慧，世人凭自己的智慧，未曾认识神，神就乐意借着所传之事的愚拙，拯救那些信的人。
For since in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom did not know God, God was well pleased through the foolishness of the preaching to save those
who believe.
1:22 犹太人是求神迹，希利尼人是寻求智慧，
For indeed Jews require signs and Greeks seek wisdom,
1:23 我们却是传扬钉十字架的基督，对犹太人为绊脚石，对外邦人为愚拙；
But we preach Christ crucified, to Jews a stumbling block, and to Gentiles foolishness,
1:24 但对那蒙召的，无论是犹太人、或希利尼人，基督总是神的能力，神的智慧。
But to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God.
1:25 因神的愚拙总比人智慧，神的软弱总比人强壮。
Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men.
1:26 弟兄们，你们看你们蒙召的，按着肉体有智慧的不多，有能力的不多，出身尊高的也不多；
For consider your calling, brothers, that there are not many wise according to flesh, not many powerful, not many wellborn.
1:27 神却拣选了世上愚拙的，叫那有智慧的羞愧；神又拣选了世上软弱的，叫那强壮的羞愧；
But God has chosen the foolish things of the world that He might shame those who are wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world that He might
shame the things that are strong,
1:28 神也拣选了世上出身卑下的，以及被人藐视的，就是那些无有的，为要废掉那些有的，
And the lowborn things of the world and the despised things God has chosen, things which are not, that He might bring to nought the things which are,
1:29 使一切属肉体的人，在神面前都不能夸口。
So that no flesh may boast before God.
1:30 但你们得在基督耶稣里，是出于神，这基督成了从神给我们的智慧：公义、圣别和救赎，
But of Him you are in Christ Jesus, who became wisdom to us from God: both righteousness and sanctification and redemption,
1:31 为使，如经上所记：“夸口的当在主里夸口。”
That as it is written, "He who boasts, let him boast in the Lord.''
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 2 章
2:1 弟兄们，从前我到你们那里去，并没有照着高超的言论或智慧，对你们宣传神的奥秘。
And I, when I came to you, brothers, came not according to excellence of speech or of wisdom, announcing to you the mystery of God.
2:2 因为我曾定了主意，在你们中间不知道别的，只知道耶稣基督，并这位钉十字架的。
For I did not determine to know anything among you except Jesus Christ, and this One crucified.
2:3 我在你们那里，又软弱，又惧怕，又甚战兢。
And I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling;
2:4 我说的话，讲的道，不是用智慧动听的言语，乃是用那灵和能力的明证，
And my speech and my proclamation were not in persuasive words of wisdom but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power,
2:5 叫你们的信不在于人的智慧，乃在于神的能力。
In order that your faith would not stand in the wisdom of men but in the power of God.
2:6 然而在长成的人中，我们也讲智慧，但不是这世代的智慧，也不是这世代有权有位正被废掉之人的智慧。
But we do speak wisdom among those who are full-grown, yet a wisdom not of this age nor of the rulers of this age, who are being brought to nought;
2:7 我们讲的，乃是从前所隐藏，神奥秘中的智慧，就是神在万世以前，为使我们得荣耀所预定的；
But we speak God's wisdom in a mystery, the wisdom which has been hidden, which God predestined before the ages for our glory,
2:8 这智慧，这世代有权有位的人，并没有一个知道，因为他们若知道，就不会把荣耀的主钉十字架了。
Which none of the rulers of this age have known; for if they had known, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory;
2:9 只是如经上所记：“神为爱祂的人所预备的，是眼睛未曾看见，耳朵未曾听见，人心也未曾想到的。”
But as it is written, "Things which eye has not seen and ear has not heard and which have not come up in man's heart; things which God has prepared for those
who love Him.''
2:10 但神借着那灵向我们启示了，因为那灵参透万事，甚至神的深奥也参透了。
But to us God has revealed them through the Spirit, for the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God.
2:11 因为除了在人里面人的灵，在人中间有谁知道人的事？照样，除了神的灵，也没有人知道神的事。
For who among men knows the things of man, except the spirit of man which is in him? In the same way, the things of God also no one has known except the
Spirit of God.
2:12 我们所领受的，并不是世上的灵，乃是那出于神的灵，使我们能知道神白白恩赐我们的事；
But we have received not the spirit of the world but the Spirit which is from God, that we may know the things which have been graciously given to us by God;
2:13 这些事我们也讲说，不是用人智慧所教导的言语，乃是用那灵所教导的言语，用属灵的话，解释属灵的事。
Which things also we speak, not in words taught by human wisdom but in words taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual things with spiritual words.
2:14 然而属魂的人不领受神的灵的事，因他以这些事为愚拙，并且他不能明白，因为这些事是凭灵看透的。
But a soulish man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him and he is not able to know them because they are discerned
spiritually.
2:15 惟有属灵的人看透万事，却没有一人看透他。
But the spiritual man discerns all things, but he himself is discerned by no one.
2:16 谁曾知道主的心思能教导祂？但我们是有基督的心思了。
For who has known the mind of the Lord and will instruct Him? But we have the mind of Christ.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 3 章
3:1 弟兄们，我从前对你们说话，不能把你们当作属灵的，只能当作属肉的，当作在基督里的婴孩。
And I, brothers, was not able to speak to you as to spiritual men, but as to fleshy, as to infants in Christ.
3:2 我给你们奶喝，没有给你们干粮，因为那时你们不能吃，就是如今还是不能，
I gave you milk to drink, not solid food, for you were not yet able to receive it. But neither yet now are you able,
3:3 因你们仍是属肉体的。因为在你们中间有嫉妒、争竞，你们岂不是属肉体，照着人的样子而行么？
For you are still fleshly. For if there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not fleshly and do you not walk according to the manner of man?
3:4 有的说，我是属保罗的，另有的说，我是属亚波罗的；你们岂不是属肉体的人么？
For when someone says, I am of Paul, and another, I of Apollos, are you not men of flesh?
3:5 亚波罗算什么？保罗算什么？照着主所赐给他们各人的，不过是执事，借着他们，你们信了。
What then is Apollos? And what is Paul? Ministers through whom you believed, even as the Lord gave to each one of them.
3:6 我栽种了，亚波罗浇灌了，惟有神叫他生长。
I planted, Apollos watered, but God caused the growth.
3:7 可见栽种的算不得什么，浇灌的也算不得什么，只在那叫他生长的神。
So then neither is he who plants anything nor he who waters, but God who causes the growth.
3:8 栽种的和浇灌的都是一样，但将来各人要照自己的劳苦，得自己的赏赐。
Now he who plants and he who waters are one, but each will receive his own reward according to his own labor.
3:9 因为我们是神的同工，你们是神的耕地，神的建筑。
For we are God's fellow workers; you are God's cultivated land, God's building.
3:10 我照神所给我的恩典，好像一个智慧的工头，立好了根基，有别人在上面建造，只是各人要谨慎怎样在上面建造。
According to the grace of God given to me, as a wise master builder I have laid a foundation, and another builds upon it. But let each man take heed how he
builds upon it.
3:11 因为除了那已经立好的根基，就是耶稣基督以外，没有人能立别的根基。
For another foundation no one is able to lay besides that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ.
3:12 然而，若有人用金、银、宝石，木、草、禾秸，在这根基上建造，
But if anyone builds upon the foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, grass, stubble,
3:13 各人的工程必然显露，因为那日子要将它指明出来；它要在火中被揭露，这火要试验各人的工程是那一种的。
The work of each will become manifest; for the day will declare it, because it is revealed by fire, and the fire itself will prove each one's work, of what sort it is.
3:14 人在那根基上所建造的工程若存得住，他就要得赏赐。
If anyone's work which he has built upon the foundation remains, he will receive a reward;
3:15 人的工程若被烧毁，他就要受亏损，自己却要得救；只是这样得救，要像从火里经过的一样。
If anyone's work is consumed, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved, yet so as through fire.
3:16 岂不知你们是神的殿，神的灵住在你们里面么？
Do you not know that you are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwells in you?
3:17 若有人毁坏神的那殿，神必要毁坏这人，因为神的那殿是圣的，你们就是这殿。
If anyone destroys the temple of God, God will destroy him; for the temple of God is holy, and such are you.
3:18 人不可自欺；你们中间若有人自以为在这世代中有智慧，他就该变作愚拙，好成为有智慧的。
Let no one deceive himself; if anyone thinks that he is wise among you in this age, let him become foolish that he may become wise.
3:19 因这世界的智慧，在神看是愚拙，如经上记着：“主叫智慧的人中了自己的诡计。”
For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God; for it is written, "He grasps the wise in their craftiness'';
3:20 又说，“主知道智慧人的意念是虚空的。”
And again, "The Lord knows the reasonings of the wise, that they are vain.''
3:21 所以谁都不可拿人夸口，因为万有全是你们的，
So then let no one boast in men, for all things are yours,
3:22 或保罗、或亚波罗、或矶法、或世界、或生命、或死亡、或现今的事、或要来的事，全是你们的，
Whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or things present or things to come; all are yours,
3:23 但你们是基督的，基督又是神的。
But you are Christ's, and Christ is God's.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 4 章
4:1 这样，人应当把我们看作基督的执事，和神的奥秘的管家。
A man should account us in this way, as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.
4:2 还有，在此所求于管家的，是要他显为忠信。
Here, furthermore, it is sought in stewards that one be found faithful.
4:3 至于我被你们察验，或被人审判的日子察验，对我都是极小的事，连我也不察验自己。
But to me it is a very small thing that I should be examined by you or by man's day; rather I do not even examine myself.
4:4 我虽不觉得自己有错，却也不能因此得称义，但察验我的乃是主。
For I am conscious of nothing against myself; but I am not justified in this, but He who examines me is the Lord.
4:5 所以在那时以前，什么都不要论断，直等主来，祂要照出暗中的隐情，也要显明人心的意图，那时各人要从神那里得着称赞。
So then do not judge anything before the time, until the Lord comes, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness and make manifest the counsels of
the hearts, and then there will be praise to each from God.
4:6 弟兄们，我为你们的缘故，将这些事转比到自己和亚波罗身上，叫你们从我们学习不越过所写的，免得你们自高自大，高看这个，鄙视那个。
Now these things, brothers, I have transferred in figure to myself and Apollos for your sakes, that you may learn in us the matter of not going beyond what has
been written, that none of you may be puffed up on behalf of one, against the other.
4:7 使你与人不同的是谁？你有什么不是领受的？若真是领受的，你为什么夸口，仿佛不是领受的？
For who distinguishes you? And what do you have that you did not receive? And if you did receive it, why do you boast as though not having received it?
4:8 你们已经饱足了，已经丰富了，不用我们，自己就作王了。我巴不得你们果真作王，叫我们也得与你们一同作王。
Already you are filled; already you have become rich; you have reigned without us. And I would have it indeed that you did reign, that we also might reign with
you.
4:9 我想神把我们使徒显列在末后，好像定了死罪的人，因为我们对世界，就是对天使和世人，成了一台戏。
For, I think, God has set forth us the apostles last of all as doomed to death, because we have become a spectacle to the world, both to angels and to men.
4:10 我们为基督的缘故是愚拙的，你们在基督里倒是精明的；我们软弱，你们倒强壮；你们有荣耀，我们倒被轻视。
We are fools because of Christ, but you are prudent in Christ; we are weak, but you are strong; you are glorious, but we are dishonored.
4:11 直到今时，我们还是又饥，又渴，又赤身露体，又挨拳打，又居无定所；
Until the present hour we both hunger and thirst, and are naked and buffeted and wander without a home;
4:12 并且劳苦，亲手作工；被人咒骂，我们就祝福；被人逼迫，我们就忍受；
And we labor, working with our own hands. Reviled we bless; persecuted we endure;
4:13 被人毁谤，我们就善劝；我们成了世界上的污秽，万物中的渣滓，直到如今。
Defamed we exhort. We have become as the offscouring of the world, the scum of all things, until now.
4:14 我写这些话，不是羞辱你们，乃像劝戒我亲爱的儿女一样。
It is not to shame you that I write these things but to admonish you as my beloved children.
4:15 你们在基督里，纵有上万的导师，父亲却不多，因为是我在基督耶稣里借着福音生了你们。
For though you have ten thousand guides in Christ, yet you do not have many fathers; for in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the gospel.
4:16 所以我恳求你们要效法我。
I exhort you therefore, Become imitators of me.
4:17 因此我已打发提摩太到你们那里去；他在主里是我所亲爱、忠信的孩子；他必提醒你们，我在基督耶稣里怎样行事，正如我在各处各召会中所教导的。
Because of this I have sent Timothy to you, who is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord, who will remind you of my ways which are in Christ, even as I teach
everywhere in every church.
4:18 有些人以为我不到你们那里去，就自高自大，
Now some have become puffed up as though I were not coming to you.
4:19 然而主若愿意，我必快到你们那里去；并且我所要知道的，不是那些自高自大之人的言语，乃是他们的能力。
But I will come to you shortly, if the Lord wills, and I will ascertain not the speech of those who are puffed up but the power.
4:20 因为神的国不在于言语，乃在于能力。
For the kingdom of God is not in speech but in power.
4:21 你们愿意怎么样？是要我带着刑杖，还是要我在爱和温柔的灵里，到你们那里去？
What do you want? Should I come to you with a rod or in love and a spirit of meekness?
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 5 章
5:1 确实听说在你们中间有淫乱的事，这样的淫乱，连外邦人中也没有，就是有人收了他的继母。
It is actually reported that there is fornication among you, and such fornication that does not even occur among the Gentiles, that someone has his stepmother.
5:2 你们还是自高自大！岂不应当哀恸，把行这事的人从你们中间挪开？
And you are puffed up? And have you not rather mourned, that the one who has done this deed might be removed from your midst?
5:3 我身体虽不在你们那里，灵却与你们同在，我已经审判了行这样事的人，好像与你们同在一样，
For I, on my part, though being absent in the body but present in the spirit, have already judged, as if being present, him who has thus done this,
5:4 就是当你们和我的灵聚集的时候，在我们主耶稣的名里，带同我们主耶稣的能力，
In the name of our Lord Jesus, when you and my spirit have been assembled, with the power of our Lord Jesus,
5:5 把这样的人交给撒但，使他的肉体受败坏，好叫他的灵在主的日子可以得救。
To deliver such a one to Satan for the destruction of his flesh, that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord.
5:6 你们夸口是不好的。岂不知一点面酵能使全团发起来么？
Your boasting is not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump?
5:7 你们要把旧酵除净，好使你们成为新团，正如你们是无酵的一样，因为我们的逾越节基督，已经被杀献祭了。
Purge out the old leaven that you may be a new lump, even as you are unleavened; for our Passover, Christ, also has been sacrificed.
5:8 所以我们守这节，不可用旧酵，也不可用恶毒邪恶的酵，只用纯诚真实的无酵饼。
So then let us keep the feast, not with old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice and evil, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.
5:9 我曾写信给你们说，不可与淫乱的人交往，
I wrote to you in my letter not to mingle with fornicators,
5:10 并不是指这世上所有行淫乱的、或贪婪的、或勒索的、或拜偶像的，若是那样，你们就需要离开世界。
But not altogether with the fornicators of this world, or with the covetous and rapacious, or idolaters, since then you would have to go out of the world.
5:11 但如今我写给你们说，若有人称为弟兄，是行淫乱的、或贪婪的、或拜偶像的、或辱骂的、或醉酒的、或勒索的，这样的人不可与他交往，甚至与他
一同吃饭都不可。
But now I have written to you not to mingle with anyone who is called a brother, if he is a fornicator or a covetous man or an idolater or a reviler or a drunkard or
a rapacious man, with such a one not even to eat.
5:12 因为审判召会外的人与我何干？召会里的人岂不是你们审判的么？
For what have I to do with judging those who are outside the church? Do you not judge those who are within the church?
5:13 至于召会外的人，有神审判他们。你们要把那恶人从你们中间挪开。
But those who are outside, God will judge. Remove the evil man from among yourselves.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 6 章
6:1 你们中间有人与别人起了相争的事，怎敢在不义的人面前，而不在圣徒面前求审？
Does any one of you who has a case against another dare to be judged before the unrighteous and not before the saints?
6:2 岂不知圣徒要审判世界么？若世界为你们所审判，难道你们不配审判这最小的事么？
Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is judged by you, are you unworthy of the smallest judgments?
6:3 岂不知我们要审判天使么？何况今生的事？
Do you not know that we will judge angels, not to mention things of this life?
6:4 既是这样，你们若有今生的事当上法庭，是派召会所不看为什么的人审判么？
If then you hold judgments over things of this life, do you seat as judges those who are of no account in the church?
6:5 我说这话，是要叫你们羞愧。难道你们中间竟没有一个智慧人，能在他弟兄中间审断么？
I say this to your shame. So there is no one wise among you, who will be able to discern between his brothers?
6:6 你们竟是弟兄与弟兄告状，而且告在不信的人面前。
But brother goes to court with brother, and this before unbelievers.
6:7 你们彼此争讼，这已全然是你们的失败了。为什么不宁愿受冤枉？为什么不宁愿被亏负？
Already then it is altogether a defeat to you that you have lawsuits with one another. Why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be defrauded?
6:8 你们倒是冤枉人，亏负人，况且这又是对弟兄。
But you wrong and defraud, and this your brothers.
6:9 你们岂不知，不义的不能承受神的国么？不要受迷惑，无论是淫乱的、拜偶像的、奸淫的、作娈童的、同性恋的、
Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be led astray; neither fornicators nor idolaters nor adulterers nor effeminate
nor homosexuals
6:10 偷窃的、贪婪的、醉酒的、辱骂的、勒索的，都不能承受神的国。
Nor thieves nor the covetous, not drunkards, not revilers, not the rapacious will inherit the kingdom of God.
6:11 你们中间有人从前也是这样，但在主耶稣基督的名里，并在我们神的灵里，你们已经洗净了自己，已经圣别了，已经称义了。
And these things were some of you; but you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of
our God.
6:12 凡事我都可行，但不都有益处；凡事我都可行，但无论那一件，我总不受它的辖制。
All things are lawful to me, but not all things are profitable; all things are lawful to me, but I will not be brought under the power of anything.
6:13 食物是为肚腹，肚腹是为食物；但这两样，神都要废掉。可是身体不是为淫乱，乃是为主，主也是为身体。
Foods are for the stomach, and the stomach for foods; but God will bring to nought both it and them. But the body is not for fornication but for the Lord, and the
Lord for the body.
6:14 并且神已经使主复活，也必借着祂的能力，使我们复活起来。
And God has both raised up the Lord and will raise us up through His power.
6:15 岂不知你们的身体是基督的肢体么？我可以把基督的肢体作成娼妓的肢体么？绝对不可！
Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them members of a prostitute? Absolutely not!
6:16 岂不知与娼妓联合的，便是与她成为一体么？因为主说，“二人要成为一体。”
Or do you not know that he who is joined to a prostitute is one body? For He says, "The two shall be one flesh.''
6:17 但与主联合的，便是与主成为一灵。
But he who is joined to the Lord is one spirit.
6:18 你们要逃避淫乱。人所犯的，无论什么罪，都在身体以外，惟有行淫的，是得罪自己的身体。
Flee fornication. Every sin which a man may do is outside the body, but he who commits fornication sins against his own body.
6:19 岂不知你们的身体，就是在你们里面之圣灵的殿么？这圣灵是你们从神而得的，并且你们不是属自己的，
Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own?
6:20 因为你们是重价买来的。这样，就要在你们的身体上荣耀神。
For you have been bought with a price. So then glorify God in your body.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 7 章
7:1 关于你们所写的，我认为男不近女倒好，
Now concerning the things of which you wrote: It is good for a man not to touch a woman.
7:2 但为避免淫乱，男人当各有自己的妻子，女人也当各有自己的丈夫。
But because of fornication, let each man have his own wife, and let each woman have her own husband.
7:3 丈夫对妻子当尽应尽之分，妻子对丈夫也要如此。
Let the husband render to his wife that which is due, and likewise also the wife to the husband.
7:4 妻子对自己的身体没有主权，丈夫才有；照样，丈夫对自己的身体也没有主权，妻子才有。
The wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does; and likewise the husband also does not have authority over his own body, but the
wife does.
7:5 你们不可彼此亏负，除非出于同意，暂时分房，为要专心祷告，以后仍要同房，免得撒但因你们不能自制，试诱你们。
Do not deprive each other, except by agreement for a time that you may devote yourselves to prayer, and then be together again, that Satan may not tempt you
because of your lack of self-control.
7:6 我说这话，是容许你们，并不是命令。
But this I say by way of concession, not by way of command.
7:7 我愿意众人都像我一样；只是各人都有自己从神得来的恩赐，有人是这样，有人是那样。
Yet I wish all men to be even as I am myself; but each has his own gift from God, one in this way, the other in that.
7:8 我对未婚的和寡妇说，若他们常像我就好。
But I say to the unmarried and to the widows, It is good for them if they remain even as I am.
7:9 但他们若不能自制，就可以嫁娶，与其欲火中烧，倒不如嫁娶为妙。
But if they do not have self-control, let them marry; for it is better to marry than to burn with desire.
7:10 至于那已婚的，我吩咐他们，其实不是我吩咐，乃是主吩咐，说，妻子不可离开丈夫。
But to the married I charge, not I but the Lord, A wife must not be separated from her husband
7:11 （若真是离开了，她就不可再嫁，不然，仍要同丈夫和好。）丈夫也不可离弃妻子。
(But if indeed she is separated, let her remain unmarried or be reconciled to her husband), and a husband must not leave his wife.
7:12 我对其余的人说，不是主说，倘若某弟兄有不信的妻子，妻子也情愿和他同住，他就不要离弃妻子；
But to the rest I say, I, not the Lord, If any brother has an unbelieving wife and she consents to dwell with him, he must not leave her;
7:13 妻子有不信的丈夫，丈夫也情愿和她同住，她就不要离弃丈夫。
And a wife who has an unbelieving husband, and if he consents to dwell with her, must not leave her husband.
7:14 因为不信的丈夫，就因着妻子被圣别，并且不信的妻子，也因着弟兄被圣别；不然，你们的儿女就不洁净，但如今他们是圣别的了。
For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the brother; otherwise your children are unclean, but now they are
holy.
7:15 倘若那不信的人离去，就由他离去吧；无论是弟兄、是姊妹，在这种情形之下，都不必受束缚，然而神已经在平安里召了我们。
But if the unbelieving one separates, let him separate; the brother or the sister is not enslaved in such cases, but God has called us in peace.
7:16 况且你这作妻子的，怎么知道能不能救你的丈夫？你这作丈夫的，怎么知道能不能救你的妻子？
For how do you know, O wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, O husband, whether you will save your wife?
7:17 只要照主所分给各人的，和神所召各人的而行。我在众召会中都是这样吩咐。
However as the Lord has apportioned to each one, as God has called each one, so let him walk. And so I direct in all the churches.
7:18 有人蒙召时已受割礼，就不要回复原状；有人蒙召时未受割礼，就不要受割礼。
Was anyone called having been circumcised? He need not efface it. Has anyone been called in uncircumcision? He need not be circumcised.
7:19 受割礼算不得什么，不受割礼也算不得什么，只有遵守神的诫命才算得数。
Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but the keeping of God's commandments is what counts.
7:20 各人在什么身分里蒙召，仍要留于这身分。
Each one, in the calling in which he was called, in this let him remain.
7:21 你是一个奴仆蒙召么？不要在意；但即使你能自由，也宁可仍用奴仆的身分。
Were you called as a slave? Let it not concern you; but even if you are able to become free, use your status as a slave rather.
7:22 因为一个奴仆在主里蒙召，就是属于主得自由的人；照样，一个自由的人蒙召，就是基督的奴仆。
For the slave who has been called in the Lord is the Lord's freedman; likewise the free man who has been called is Christ's slave.
7:23 你们是重价买来的，不要作人的奴仆。
You were bought with a price; do not be slaves of men.
7:24 弟兄们，你们各人是在什么身分里蒙召，仍要与神一同留在这身分里。
Each one, brothers, in what status he was called, in this let him remain with God.
7:25 关于童身的人，我没有主的命令，但我既蒙主怜悯成为忠信的，就提出我的意见。
Now concerning virgins I have no commandment of the Lord, but I give my opinion as one who has been shown mercy by the Lord to be faithful.
7:26 因现今的艰难，我以为人最好保持现状。
I consider then that this is good because of the present necessity, that it is good for a man to be as he is.
7:27 你有妻子束缚着么？就不要寻求脱离。你没有妻子束缚着么？就不要寻求妻子。
Have you been bound to a wife? Do not seek a release. Have you been released from a wife? Do not seek a wife.
7:28 但你若娶妻，也不是犯罪；处女若出嫁，也不是犯罪；然而这等人肉身必受苦难，我却愿意你们免受这苦难。
But even if you do marry, you have not sinned; and if the virgin marries, she has not sinned; but such ones will have affliction in the flesh, and I am trying to spare
you.
7:29 只是弟兄们，我对你们说，时候缩短了。从此以后，那有妻子的，要像没有妻子；
But this I say, brothers, the time is shortened. Henceforth both those who have wives should be as though they had none,
7:30 哀哭的，要像不哀哭；喜乐的，要像不喜乐；置买的，要像无所拥有；
And those who weep as though they did not weep, and those who rejoice as though they did not rejoice, and those who buy as though they did not possess,
7:31 使用世物的，要像不浪费使用；因这世界的样子正在逝去。
And those who use the world as though they did not abuse it; for the fashion of this world is passing away.
7:32 我愿你们无所挂虑。没有娶妻的，是为主的事挂虑，想怎样讨主喜悦；
But I desire you to be without care. The unmarried cares for the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord;
7:33 娶了妻的，是为世上的事挂虑，想怎样讨妻子喜悦，就分心了。
But he who has married cares for the things of the world, how he may please his wife,
7:34 未结婚的妇女和守童身的女子，是为着主的事挂虑，要在身体和灵上都圣别；已经出嫁的，是为世上的事挂虑，想怎样讨丈夫喜悦。
And is distracted. Both the unmarried woman and the virgin care for the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and in spirit; but she who has
married cares for the things of the world, how she may please her husband.
7:35 我说这话，是为你们自己的益处；不是要牢笼你们，乃是要叫你们行合宜的事，得以殷勤服事主，没有分心的事。
But this I say for your own profit, not that I may put a noose upon you but that you may be comely and may wait on the Lord without distraction.
7:36 若有人以为待他的童身女儿不合宜，她也过了华龄，事又当行，他就可随愿办理，不是犯罪，让他们结婚。
But if anyone thinks that he is behaving unbecomingly to his virgin daughter, if she is past the bloom of youth and thus it must be so, let him do what he wishes,
he does not sin; let them marry.
7:37 但他若心里坚定，没有不得已的事，对自己的意思又有主权，心里也决定了留下自己的童身女儿，如此行也好。
But he who stands firm in his heart, being under no constraint, and has authority with respect to his own will and has decided this in his own heart, to keep his
own virgin daughter, he will do well.
7:38 这样看来，叫自己的童身女儿出嫁是好，不叫她出嫁更是好。
So then both he who gives his own virgin daughter in marriage does well, and he who does not give her in marriage will do better.
7:39 丈夫活着的时候，妻子是被束缚的；丈夫若睡了，妻子就可以自由，随愿嫁人，只是要嫁在主里的人。
A wife is bound for so long a time as her husband lives; but should the husband fall asleep, she is free to be married to whom she wishes, only to one in the Lord.
7:40 然而，按我的意见，她若守节更是有福；但我想我也有神的灵了。
But she is more blessed if she so remains, according to my opinion; but I think that I also have the Spirit of God.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 8 章
8:1 关于祭偶像之物，我们晓得我们都有知识。知识是叫人自高自大，惟有爱建造人。
Now concerning things sacrificed to idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but love builds up.
8:2 若有人自以为知道什么，按他所当知道的，他仍是不知道；
If anyone thinks that he knows anything, he has not yet come to know as he ought to know;
8:3 但若有人爱神，这人乃是神所知道的。
But if anyone loves God, this one is known by Him.
8:4 关于吃祭偶像之物，我们晓得偶像在世上算不得什么，也晓得神只有一位，再没有别的神。
Therefore concerning the eating of things sacrificed to idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world and that there is no God but one.
8:5 纵然有称为神的，或在天，或在地，就如那许多的神，许多的主，
For even if there are so-called gods, either in heaven or on earth, even as there are many gods and many lords,
8:6 在我们却只有一位神，就是父，万物都本于祂，我们也归于祂；并有一位主，就是耶稣基督，万物都是借着祂有的，我们也是借着祂有的。
Yet to us there is one God, the Father, out from whom are all things, and we are unto Him; and one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom are all things, and we are
through Him.
8:7 然而人不都有这等知识；有人直到如今还带着拜偶像的习惯感，就以为所吃的是祭偶像之物；他们的良心既然软弱，就受了玷污。
But this knowledge is not in all men; but some, being accustomed to the idol until now, eat the food as an idol sacrifice, and their conscience, being weak, is
defiled.
8:8 其实食物不能将我们荐与神，因为我们不吃也无亏缺，吃也无盈超。
But food will not commend us to God; neither if we do not eat are we lacking, nor if we eat do we abound.
8:9 只是你们要谨慎，恐怕你们这权利，竟成了那软弱人的绊脚石。
But beware lest somehow this right of yours become a stumbling block to the weak ones.
8:10 若有人见你这有知识的，在偶像的庙里坐席，这人既是软弱的，他的良心岂不放胆去吃那祭偶像之物么？
For if anyone sees you who have knowledge reclining at table in an idol temple, will not his conscience, if he is weak, be emboldened to eat the things sacrificed
to the idols?
8:11 因此，基督为他死的那软弱弟兄，也就被你的知识败坏了。
For the one who is weak is being destroyed by your knowledge, the brother because of whom Christ died.
8:12 你们这样得罪弟兄们，伤了他们软弱的良心，就是得罪基督。
And sinning in this way against the brothers and wounding their weak conscience, you sin against Christ.
8:13 所以食物若真绊跌我的弟兄，我就绝不吃肉直到永远，免得绊跌我的弟兄。
Therefore if food stumbles my brother, I shall by no means eat meat forever, that I may not stumble my brother.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 9 章
9:1 我不是自由的么？我不是使徒么？我不是见过我们的主耶稣么？你们不是我在主里所作之工么？
Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord?
9:2 若是对别人我不是使徒，对你们我总是使徒，因为你们在主里正是我使徒职分的印记。
If to others I am not an apostle, yet surely I am to you; for you in the Lord are the seal of my apostleship.
9:3 我对那查问我的人，就是这样分诉。
My defense to those who examine me is this.
9:4 难道我们没有权利吃喝么？
Do we not have a right to eat and to drink?
9:5 难道我们没有权利带着为妻子的姊妹往来，仿佛其余的使徒，和主的兄弟，并矶法一样么？
Do we not have a right to take along a sister as a wife, even as the rest of the apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas?
9:6 独有我与巴拿巴没有权利不作工么？
Or do only I and Barnabas not have the right not to work?
9:7 有谁当兵，曾自备粮饷？有谁栽种葡萄园，不吃园中的果子？有谁牧养羊群，不吃羊群的奶？
What soldier ever serves by his own wages? Who plants a vineyard and does not partake of its fruit? Or who shepherds a flock and does not partake of the milk
of the flock?
9:8 我说这话，岂是照着人的看法么？律法不也是这样说么？
Am I speaking these things according to man? Or does the law not also say these things?
9:9 在摩西的律法上记着：“牛踹谷的时候，不可笼住它的嘴。”难道神所关心的是牛么？
For in the law of Moses it is written: "You shall not muzzle the ox while it is treading out the grain.'' Is it for oxen that God cares?
9:10 还是全为我们说的？的确是为我们写的，因为耕种的当存着指望去耕种，打场的也当存着分享的指望去打场。
Or does He say it altogether for our sake? Yes, for our sake it was written because the plowman should plow in hope, and he who threshes, in hope of partaking.
9:11 我们若把属灵之物撒给你们，就是从你们收割肉身之物，这还算大事么？
If we have sown to you the spiritual things, is it a great thing if we shall reap from you the fleshly things?
9:12 若别人在你们身上分享这权利，何况我们？然而我们没有用过这权利，倒凡事忍受，免得基督的福音受到任何拦阻。
If others partake of this right over you, should not rather we? Yet we did not use this right, but we bear all things that we may not cause any hindrance to the
gospel of Christ.
9:13 你们岂不知为圣事劳碌的，就吃殿中之物么？伺候祭坛的，就同祭坛分领坛上的祭物么？
Do you not know that those who labor on the sacred things eat the things of the sacred temple, that those who attend to the altar have their portion with the altar?
9:14 主也是这样命定，叫宣传福音的靠福音养生。
So also the Lord directed those who announce the gospel to live from the gospel.
9:15 但这些权利我全没有用过；我写这些话，并非要你们这样待我，因为我宁可死，也不─没有人能使我所夸的落了空。
But I myself have not used any of these things; and I have not written these things that it may be so with me; for it is good for me rather to die than -- No one
shall make my boast void.
9:16 我若传福音，于我原没有可夸的，因为我是不得已的。若不传福音，我便有祸了。
For if I preach the gospel, I have no boast, for necessity is laid upon me; for woe to me if I do not preach the gospel.
9:17 我若甘心作这事，就有赏赐；若不甘心，管家的职分却已经托付我了。
If I do this of my own will, I have a reward; but if not of my own will, I am entrusted with a stewardship.
9:18 这样，我的赏赐是什么？就是在传福音上，我免费供应福音，免得用尽我在福音上的权利。
What then is my reward? That in preaching the gospel I may present the gospel without charge, so as not to use to the full my right in the gospel.
9:19 我虽从众人得了自由，却自愿奴役于众人，为要多得人。
For though I am free from all, I have enslaved myself to all that I might gain the more.
9:20 向犹太人，我就作犹太人，为要得犹太人；向律法之下的人，我就作律法之下的人，（虽然我自己不在律法之下，）为要得律法之下的人；
And to the Jews I became as a Jew in order that I might gain Jews; to those under law, as under law (though I myself am not under law), that I might gain those
under law.
9:21 向律法之外的人，我就作律法之外的人，（对神，我不是在律法之外，反而对基督，我是在律法之内，）为要得律法之外的人。
To those without law, as without law (though I am not without law to God but within law to Christ), that I might gain those without law.
9:22 向软弱的人，我就成为软弱的，为要得软弱的人。向众人，我成了众人所是的；无论如何，总要救些人。
To the weak I became weak that I might gain the weak. To all men I have become all things that I might by all means save some.
9:23 凡我所行的，都是为福音的缘故，为要与人同享这福音。
And I do all things for the sake of the gospel that I may become a fellow partaker of it.
9:24 岂不知在场上赛跑的都跑，但得奖赏的只有一人？你们应当这样跑，好叫你们得着奖赏。
Do you not know that those who run on a racecourse all run, but one receives the prize? Run in this way, that you may lay hold.
9:25 凡较力争胜的，诸事都有节制；他们不过是要得能坏的华冠，我们却是要得不能坏的华冠。
And everyone who contends exercises self-control in all things; they then, that they may receive a corruptible crown, but we, an incorruptible.
9:26 所以我这样奔跑，不像无定向的；我这样斗拳，不像打空气的；
I therefore run in this way, not as though without a clear aim; I box in this way, not as though beating the air;
9:27 我乃是痛击己身，叫身为奴，免得我传给别人，自己反不蒙称许。
But I buffet my body and make it my slave, lest perhaps having preached to others, I myself may become disapproved.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 10 章
10:1 因为弟兄们，我不愿意你们不知道，我们的祖宗从前都在云下，都从海中经过；
For I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, that all our fathers were under the cloud, and all passed through the sea;
10:2 都在云里，也在海里，受浸归了摩西；
And all were baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea;
10:3 并且都吃了一样的灵食，
And all ate the same spiritual food,
10:4 也都喝了一样的灵水；所喝的是出于随行的灵磐石，那磐石就是基督。
And all drank the same spiritual drink; for they drank of a spiritual rock which followed them, and the rock was Christ.
10:5 但他们大多数的人，神并不喜悦，因此他们倒毙在旷野。
But with most of them God was not well pleased, for they were strewn along in the wilderness.
10:6 这些事都是我们的鉴戒，叫我们不作贪恋恶事的人，像他们那样贪恋。
Now these things occurred as examples to us, that we should not be ones who lust after evil things, even as they also lusted.
10:7 也不要作拜偶像的人，像他们有些人那样；如经上所记：“百姓坐下吃喝，起来玩耍。”
Neither become idolaters, as some of them did; as it is written, "The people sat down to eat and drink, and stood up to play.''
10:8 我们也不要行淫，像他们有些人行的，一天就倒毙了二万三千人。
Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed fornication, and there fell in one day twenty-three thousand.
10:9 我们也不要试探基督，像他们有些人试探的，就被蛇所灭。
Neither let us test Christ, as some of them tested Him and were destroyed by the serpents.
10:10 你们也不要发怨言，像他们有些人发的，就被灭命的所灭。
Neither murmur, just as some of them murmured and perished by the destroyer.
10:11 这些发生在他们身上的事，都是鉴戒，并且写在经上，正是为警戒我们这生在诸世代终局的人。
Now these things happened to them as an example, and they were written for our admonition, unto whom the ends of the ages have come.
10:12 所以自以为站得稳的，要谨慎，免得跌倒。
So then let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall.
10:13 那临到你们的试诱，无非是人所能受的；神是信实的，必不容你们受试诱过于所能受的，祂也必随着试诱开一条出路，叫你们能忍受得住。
No temptation has taken you except that which is common to man; and God is faithful, who will not allow that you be tempted beyond what you are able, but will,
with the temptation, also make the way out, that you may be able to endure it.
10:14 所以，我所亲爱的，你们要逃避拜偶像的事。
Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.
10:15 我好像对精明人说的，你们要审断我所说的。
I speak as to prudent men; you judge what I say.
10:16 我们所祝福的福杯，岂不是基督之血的交通么？我们所擘开的饼，岂不是基督身体的交通么？
The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the fellowship of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the fellowship of the body of Christ?
10:17 因着只有一个饼，我们虽多，还是一个身体，因我们都分受这一个饼。
Seeing that there is one bread, we who are many are one Body; for we all partake of the one bread.
10:18 你们看那按着肉体是以色列人的，那些吃祭物的，岂不是与祭坛交通的人么？
Look at Israel according to the flesh. Are not those who eat the sacrifices those who have fellowship with the altar?
10:19 这样，我是怎么说的？岂是说祭偶像之物算得什么？或是说偶像算得什么？
What then am I saying? That what is sacrificed to an idol is anything? Or that an idol is anything?
10:20 我乃是说，外邦人所献的祭，是祭鬼，不是祭神；我不愿意你们成为与鬼交通的人。
No, but that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons and not to God; and I do not want you to become those who have fellowship with
demons.
10:21 你们不能喝主的杯，又喝鬼的杯；不能有分于主的筵席，又有分于鬼的筵席。
You cannot drink the Lord's cup and the demons' cup; you cannot partake of the Lord's table and of the demons' table.
10:22 我们可惹主的妒忌么？难道我们比祂还强么？
Or do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than He?
10:23 凡事都可行，但不都有益处；凡事都可行，但不都建造人。
All things are lawful, but not all things are profitable; all things are lawful, but not all things build up.
10:24 无论何人，不要寻求自己的益处，乃要寻求别人的益处。
Let no one seek his own profit, but that of the other.
10:25 凡肉市上所卖的，你们只管吃，不要为良心的缘故查问什么，
Everything sold in a meat market eat, asking no questions for conscience' sake;
10:26 因为地和地的丰满，都属于主。
For the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof.
10:27 若有不信的人请你们，你们也愿意去，凡摆在你们面前的，只管吃，不要为良心的缘故查问什么。
If any of the unbelievers invites you and you wish to go, eat everything that is set before you, asking no question for conscience' sake.
10:28 但若有人对你们说，这是献过祭的物，就要为那指出的人，并为良心的缘故，不吃；
But if anyone says to you, This has been offered in sacrifice, do not eat, for his sake who pointed it out and for conscience' sake.
10:29 我说的良心，不是你自己的，乃是别人的。我这自由为什么被别人的良心审判？
Conscience, I say, not your own, but the other's. For why is my freedom judged by some other conscience?
10:30 我若感恩着分受，为什么在我所感谢的物上被人毁谤？
If I partake with thankfulness, why am I spoken evil of concerning that for which I give thanks?
10:31 所以你们或吃、或喝、或作什么事，一切都要为荣耀神而行。
Therefore whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God.
10:32 不拘对犹太人，对希利尼人，对神的召会，你们都不要成为绊脚石；
Do not become a stumbling block, both to Jews and to Greeks and to the church of God;
10:33 就好像我也凡事叫众人喜悦，不寻求自己的益处，只寻求多人的益处，叫他们可以得救。
Even as I also please all men in all things, not seeking my own advantage but that of the many, that they may be saved.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 11 章
11:1 你们要效法我，像我效法基督一样。
Be imitators of me, as I also am of Christ.
11:2 但我称赞你们，因你们凡事记念我，又照着所交付给你们的，坚守我所传授的。
But I praise you because in all things you have remembered me and hold fast the things that I have handed down even as I handed them down to you.
11:3 我且愿意你们知道，基督是各人的头，男人是女人的头，神是基督的头。
But I want you to know that Christ is the head of every man, and the man is the head of the woman, and God is the head of Christ.
11:4 凡男人祷告，或是申言，若蒙着头，就羞辱自己的头。
Every man praying or prophesying with his head covered disgraces his head.
11:5 但凡女人祷告，或是申言，若不蒙着头，就羞辱自己的头，因为这就如同剃了头发一样。
But every woman praying or prophesying with her head uncovered disgraces her head; for it is one and the same as she who is shaved.
11:6 女人若不蒙着头，就该剪了头发；女人若以剪发或剃发为羞愧，就该把自己蒙起来。
For if a woman is not covered, let her hair also be cut off; but if it is shameful for a woman to have her hair cut off or to be shaved, let her be covered.
11:7 男人既是神的形像和荣耀，就不该蒙着头，但女人是男人的荣耀。
For a man ought not to have his head covered, since he is God's image and glory; but the woman is the glory of the man.
11:8 男人原不是由女人而出，女人却是由男人而出，
For man is not out of woman, but woman out of man;
11:9 并且男人不是为着女人创造的，女人却是为着男人创造的。
For also man was not created for the sake of the woman, but woman for the sake of the man.
11:10 因此，女人为着天使的缘故，应当在头上有服权柄的表记。
Therefore the woman ought to have a sign of submission to authority on her head for the sake of the angels.
11:11 然而在主里面，女也不是无男，男也不是无女。
However neither is woman without man, nor man without woman, in the Lord.
11:12 因为女人怎样出于男人，照样，男人也是借着女人，但万有都是出于神。
For just as the woman is out from the man, so also is the man through the woman; but all things are out from God.
11:13 你们自己里面审断：女人祷告神不蒙着头，是合宜的么？
Judge this in your own selves: Is it fitting for a woman to pray uncovered to God?
11:14 你们的本性岂不也教导你们，男人若有长头发，便是他的羞辱，
Does not even nature itself teach you that if a man has long hair, it is a dishonor to him,
11:15 而女人有长头发，乃是她的荣耀么？因为这长头发是给她作盖头的。
But if a woman has long hair, it is a glory to her, because her long hair has been given to her for a covering.
11:16 若有人想要强辩，我们却没有这样的规矩，神的众召会也没有。
But if anyone seems to be contentious, we do not have such a custom of being so, neither the churches of God.
11:17 然而，我要吩咐一事，并不是称赞你们，因为你们聚在一起，不是受益，乃是招损。
But I give you this charge and do not praise you, because you come together not for the better but for the worse.
11:18 第一，我听说你们在召会中聚在一起的时候，你们中间有分裂，我也有几分相信。
For first of all, when you come together in the church, I hear that divisions exist among you; and some part of it I believe.
11:19 在你们中间不免有派别，好叫那些蒙称许的人在你们中间显明出来。
For there must even be parties among you, that those who are approved may become manifest among you.
11:20 你们聚在一处的时候，并不是吃主的晚餐，
When therefore you come together in the same place, it is not to eat the Lord's supper;
11:21 因为吃的时候，各人先吃自己的饭，甚至这个饥饿，那个酒醉。
For in your eating, each one takes his own supper first, and one is hungry and the other is drunk.
11:22 你们要吃喝，难道没有家么？还是你们藐视神的召会，羞辱那无有的？我对你们可怎么说？可称赞你们么？在这事上我不称赞。
Do you not have houses to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God and put those to shame who have not? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise
you? In this I do not praise you.
11:23 我从主领受又交付你们的，就是主耶稣被出卖的那一夜，拿起饼来，
For I received from the Lord that which also I delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus in the night in which He was betrayed took bread,
11:24 祝谢了，就擘开，说，这是我的身体，为你们舍的，你们要如此行，为的是记念我。
And having given thanks, He broke it and said, This is My body, which is given for you; this do unto the remembrance of Me.
11:25 饭后，也照样拿起杯来，说，这杯是用我的血所立的新约，你们每逢喝的时候，要如此行，为的是记念我。
Similarly also the cup after they had dined, saying, This cup is the new covenant established in My blood; this do, as often as you drink it, unto the remembrance
of Me.
11:26 你们每逢吃这饼，喝这杯，是宣告主的死，直等到祂来。
For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you declare the Lord's death until He comes.
11:27 所以无论何人，不配的吃主的饼，喝主的杯，就是得罪主的身体和主的血了。
So then whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and of the blood of the Lord.
11:28 人应当察验自己，然后吃这饼，喝这杯。
But let a man prove himself, and in this way let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup.
11:29 因为那吃喝的，若不分辨那身体，就是给自己吃喝审判了。
For he who eats and drinks, eats and drinks judgment to himself if he does not discern the body.
11:30 因此，在你们中间有好些软弱的与患病的，睡的也不少。
Because of this many among you are weak and sick, and a number sleep.
11:31 但我们若分辨自己，就不至于受审判。
But if we discerned ourselves, we would not be judged.
11:32 我们受主审判，乃是受管教，免得我们和世人同被定罪。
But being judged by the Lord, we are disciplined that we may not be condemned with the world.
11:33 所以我弟兄们，你们聚在一起吃的时候，要彼此等待。
So then, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for one another.
11:34 若有人饥饿，就当在家里吃，免得你们聚在一起受到审判。其余的事，我来的时候再安排。
If anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, that you may not come together for judgment. And the rest I will set in order when I come.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 12 章
12:1 弟兄们，关于属灵的恩赐，我不愿意你们不明白。
Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not want you to be ignorant.
12:2 你们作外邦人的时候，无论何时不论怎样受到带领，你们就被带走，去拜那不能出声的偶像，这是你们知道的。
You know that when you were Gentiles, you were always being led away to dumb idols, whenever and however you were led.
12:3 所以我要你们知道，在神的灵里说话的，没有人说，受咒诅的，耶稣！若不是在圣灵里，也没有人能说，主，耶稣！
Therefore I make known to you that no one speaking in the Spirit of God says, Jesus is accursed; and no one can say, Jesus is Lord! except in the Holy Spirit.
12:4 然而，恩赐虽有分别，灵却是同一位；
But there are distinctions of gifts, but the same Spirit;
12:5 职事也有分别，主却是同一位；
And there are distinctions of ministries, yet the same Lord;
12:6 功效也有分别，神却是同一位，在众人里面运行一切的事。
And there are distinctions of operations, but the same God, who operates all things in all.
12:7 只是那灵的表显赐给各人，是要叫人得益处。
But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for what is profitable.
12:8 这人借着那灵得了智慧的言语，那人也照同一位灵得了知识的言语，
For to one through the Spirit a word of wisdom is given, and to another a word of knowledge, according to the same Spirit;
12:9 另有别人在同一位灵里得了信心，还有一人在这一位灵里得了医病的恩赐，
To a different one faith in the same Spirit, and to another gifts of healing in the one Spirit,
12:10 另有一人能行异能，另有一人能申言，另有一人能辨别诸灵，另有别人能说各种方言，另有一人能翻方言。
And to another operations of works of power, and to another prophecy, and to another discerning of spirits; to a different one various kinds of tongues, and to
another interpretation of tongues.
12:11 但这一切都是这位独一且同一的灵所运行，照着祂的定意个别分给各人的。
But the one and the same Spirit operates all these things, distributing to each one respectively even as He purposes.
12:12 就如身体是一个，却有许多肢体，而且身体上一切的肢体虽多，仍是一个身体，基督也是这样。
For even as the body is one and has many members, yet all the members of the body, being many, are one body, so also is the Christ.
12:13 因为我们不拘是犹太人或希利尼人，是为奴的或自主的，都已经在一位灵里受浸，成了一个身体，且都得以喝一位灵。
For also in one Spirit we were all baptized into one Body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, and were all given to drink one Spirit.
12:14 身体原不是一个肢体，乃是许多肢体。
For the body is not one member but many.
12:15 倘若脚说，我不是手，所以不属于身体，它不能因此就不属于身体。
If the foot should say, Because I am not a hand, I am not of the body, it is not that because of this it is not of the body.
12:16 倘若耳说，我不是眼，所以不属于身体，它也不能因此就不属于身体。
And if the ear should say, Because I am not an eye, I am not of the body, it is not that because of this it is not of the body.
12:17 若全身是眼，听觉在那里？若全身是听觉，嗅觉在那里？
If the whole body were an eye, where would the hearing be? If the whole were the hearing, where would the smelling be?
12:18 但如今神照着自己的意思，把肢体俱各安置在身体上了。
But now God has placed the members, each one of them, in the body, even as He willed.
12:19 若都是一个肢体，身体在那里？
And if all were one member, where would the body be?
12:20 但如今肢体是多的，身体却是一个。
But now the members are many, but the body one.
12:21 眼不能对手说，我不需要你；头也不能对脚说，我不需要你。
And the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you; nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you.
12:22 不但如此，身上肢体似乎较为软弱的，更是不可少的；
But much rather the members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary.
12:23 身上肢体我们以为比较不体面的，就给它加上更丰盈的体面；我们不俊美的肢体，就得着更丰盈的俊美；
And those members of the body which we consider to be less honorable, these we clothe with more abundant honor; and our uncomely members come to have
more abundant comeliness,
12:24 至于我们俊美的肢体，就不需要了。但神将这身体调和在一起，把更丰盈的体面加给那有缺欠的肢体，
But our comely members have no need. But God has blended the body together, giving more abundant honor to the member that lacked,
12:25 免得身体上有了分裂，总要肢体彼此同样相顾。
That there would be no division in the body, but that the members would have the same care for one another.
12:26 若一个肢体受苦，所有的肢体就一同受苦；若一个肢体得荣耀，所有的肢体就一同欢乐。
And whether one member suffers, all the members suffer with it; or one member is glorified, all the members rejoice with it.
12:27 你们就是基督的身体，并且各自作肢体。
Now you are the Body of Christ, and members individually.
12:28 神在召会中所设立的，第一是使徒，第二是申言者，第三是教师；其次是行异能的，再次是得恩赐医病的，帮助的，治理的，说各种方言的。
And God has placed some in the church: first apostles, second prophets, third teachers; then works of power, then gifts of healing, helps, administrations, various
kinds of tongues.
12:29 岂都是使徒么？岂都是申言者么？岂都是教师么？岂都是行异能的么？
Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all have works of power?
12:30 岂都有医病的恩赐么？岂都说方言么？岂都翻方言么？
Do all have gifts of healing? Do all speak in tongues? Do all interpret tongues?
12:31 但你们要切慕那更大的恩赐。我还要把极超越的路指示你们。
But earnestly desire the greater gifts. And moreover I show to you a most excellent way.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 13 章
13:1 我若能说人和天使的方言，却没有爱，我就成了鸣的锣、响的钹。
If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels but do not have love, I have become sounding brass or a clanging cymbal.
13:2 我若有申言的恩赐，也明白一切的奥秘，和一切的知识，并有全备的信，以致能够移山，却没有爱，我就算不得什么。
And if I have the gift of prophecy and know all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith so as to remove mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing.
13:3 我若将我一切所有的变卖为食物分给人吃，又舍己身叫我可以夸口，却没有爱，仍然与我无益。
And if I dole out all my possessions to feed others, and if I deliver up my body that I may boast, but do not have love, I profit nothing.
13:4 爱是恒久忍耐，又有恩慈；爱是不嫉妒；爱是不自夸，不张狂，
Love suffers long. Love is kind; it is not jealous. Love does not brag and is not puffed up;
13:5 不作不合宜的事，不求自己的益处，不轻易发怒，不计算人的恶，
It does not behave unbecomingly and does not seek its own things; it is not provoked and does not take account of evil;
13:6 不因不义而欢乐，却与真理同欢乐；
It does not rejoice because of unrighteousness, but rejoices with the truth;
13:7 凡事包容，凡事相信，凡事盼望，凡事忍耐。
It covers all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.
13:8 爱是永不败落；但申言终必归于无用，方言终必停止，知识也终必归于无用。
Love never falls away. But whether prophecies, they will be rendered useless; or tongues, they will cease; or knowledge, it will be rendered useless.
13:9 因为我们所知道的是局部的，所申言的也是局部的；
For we know in part, and we prophesy in part;
13:10 及至那完全的来到，这局部的就要归于无用了。
But when that which is complete comes, that which is in part will be rendered useless.
13:11 我作孩童的时候，说话像孩童，思想像孩童，推究像孩童，既已成人，就把孩童的事废掉了。
When I was a child, I spoke as a child, I thought as a child, I reasoned as a child; since I have become a man, I have done away with childish things.
13:12 我们如今对着镜子观看，模糊不清，到那时就要面对面了。我如今所知道的是局部的，到那时就全知道，如同我全被知道一样。
For now we see in a mirror obscurely, but at that time face to face; now I know in part, but at that time I will fully know even as also I was fully known.
13:13 如今常存的，有信、望、爱这三样，其中最大的是爱。
Now there abide faith, hope, love, these three; and the greatest of these is love.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 14 章
14:1 你们要追求爱，更要切慕属灵的恩赐，尤其要切慕申言。
Pursue love, and desire earnestly spiritual gifts, but especially that you may prophesy.
14:2 那说方言的，原不是对人说，乃是对神说，因为没有人听出来，然而他在灵里却是讲说各样的奥秘。
For he who speaks in a tongue does not speak to men but to God; for no one hears, but in his spirit he speaks mysteries.
14:3 但那申言的，是对人讲说建造、勉励和安慰。
But he who prophesies speaks building up and encouragement and consolation to men.
14:4 那说方言的，是建造自己，但那申言的，乃是建造召会。
He who speaks in a tongue builds up himself, but he who prophesies builds up the church.
14:5 我愿意你们都说方言，但我更愿意你们申言；说方言的，若不翻出来，使召会得建造，那申言的，就比他强了。
I desire that you all speak in tongues, but especially that you would prophesy; and greater is he who prophesies than he who speaks in tongues, unless he
interprets, that the church may receive building up.
14:6 弟兄们，我到你们那里去，若只说方言，与你们有什么益处？除非我用启示，或知识，或预言，或教训，对你们讲说。
But now, brothers, if I come to you speaking in tongues, what will I profit you, unless I speak to you either in revelation or in knowledge or in prophecy or in
teaching?
14:7 就是那无生命而发声之物，或箫、或琴，若发出来的声调没有分别，怎能知道所吹所弹的是什么？
Yet even lifeless things, whether flute or harp, in giving a sound, if they give no distinction in the tones, how will what is played on the flute or on the harp be
known?
14:8 若吹无定的号声，谁能预备打仗？
For also if the trumpet gives an uncertain sound, who will prepare himself for battle?
14:9 你们也是如此，若不用舌头说容易明白的话，人怎能知道你所说的是什么？这样，你们就是向空气说话了。
So also you, unless you give with the tongue a word easy to understand, how will what is being said be known? For you will be speaking into the air.
14:10 世上的口音，种类或者甚多，却没有一样是无音义的。
There are perhaps many kinds of voices in the world, and not one is without significance.
14:11 这样，我若不明白那口音的意思，我对那说话的便是化外之人，那说话的对我也是化外之人。
If then I do not know the meaning of the voice, I will be to him who is speaking a barbarian, and he who is speaking a barbarian to me.
14:12 你们也是如此，既渴慕灵，就要为着召会的建造，寻求得以超越。
So also you, since you are zealous of spirits, seek that you may excel for the building up of the church.
14:13 所以那说方言的，就当祷告，使他能翻出来。
Therefore let him who speaks in a tongue pray that he may interpret.
14:14 因为我若用方言祷告，我的灵就祷告，我的心思却没有作用。
For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my mind is unfruitful.
14:15 这却怎么样？我要用灵祷告，也要用心思祷告；我要用灵歌唱，也要用心思歌唱。
What then? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray also with the mind; I will sing with the spirit, and I will sing also with the mind.
14:16 不然，你若用灵祝福，在场那不通方言的人，既然不晓得你所说的，怎能在你感谢的时候说阿们？
Otherwise if you bless with the spirit, how shall he who fills the place of the unlearned in tongues say the Amen at your giving of thanks, since he does not know
what you are saying?
14:17 你固然感谢得好，无奈别人得不着建造。
For you give thanks well, but the other is not built up.
14:18 我感谢神，我说方言比你们众人还多，
I thank God, I speak in tongues more than all of you,
14:19 但在召会中，我宁愿用我的心思说五句话，可以教导人，强如用方言说万句话。
But in the church I would rather speak five words with my mind, that I might instruct others also, than ten thousand words in a tongue.
14:20 弟兄们，在领悟上不要作小孩子，但在恶事上要作婴孩，在领悟上却要成熟。
Brothers, do not be children in your understanding, but in malice be babes and in your understanding be full-grown.
14:21 律法上记着：“主说，我要用异邦人的舌头，和异邦人的嘴唇，向这百姓说话；虽然如此，他们还是不听从我。”
In the law it is written, "By those of other tongues and with the lips of others I will speak to this people; even so they will not listen to Me, says the Lord.''
14:22 这样，方言不是给信的人作表记，乃是给不信的人；但申言不是给不信的人作表记，乃是给信的人。
So then tongues are for a sign, not to those who believe but to the unbelievers; but prophecy is for a sign not to the unbelievers but to those who believe.
14:23 所以若全召会聚在一处的时候，众人都说方言，有不通方言的，或是不信的人进来，岂不说你们癫狂了么？
If therefore the whole church comes together in one place, and all speak in tongues, and some unlearned in tongues or unbelievers enter, will they not say that
you are insane?
14:24 但若众人都申言，有不信的，或是不通方言的人进来，他就被众人劝服，被众人审明了；
But if all prophesy and some unbeliever or unlearned person enters, he is convicted by all, he is examined by all;
14:25 他心里的隐情显露出来，就必面伏于地敬拜神，宣告说，神真是在你们中间了。
The secrets of his heart become manifest; and so falling on his face, he will worship God, declaring that indeed God is among you.
14:26 弟兄们，这却怎么样？每逢你们聚在一起的时候，各人或有诗歌，或有教训，或有启示，或有方言，或有翻出来的话，凡事都当为建造。
What then, brothers? Whenever you come together, each one has a psalm, has a teaching, has a revelation, has a tongue, has an interpretation. Let all things be
done for building up.
14:27 若有人说方言，只好两个人，至多三个人，且要轮流着说，也要有一个人翻出来；
If anyone speaks in a tongue, it should be by two, or at the most three, and in turn, and one should interpret;
14:28 若没有翻的人，就当在召会中静默，只对自己和神说就是了。
But if there is no interpreter, he should be silent in the church, and speak to himself and to God.
14:29 至于申言者，可以两个人或三个人说话，其余的就当明辨。
And as to prophets, two or three should speak, and the others discern.
14:30 但若在座的，另有人得了启示，那先说话的就当静默。
But if something is revealed to another sitting by, the first should be silent.
14:31 因为你们都能一个一个的申言，为要使众人有学习，使众人得勉励。
For you can all prophesy one by one that all may learn and all may be encouraged.
14:32 并且申言者的灵，是服从申言者的，
And the spirits of prophets are subject to prophets;
14:33 因为神不是混乱的，乃是和平的。
For God is not a God of confusion but of peace. As in all the churches of the saints,
14:34 妇女在召会中要静默，像在众圣徒的众召会中一样，因为不准她们说话；她们乃要服从，正如律法所说的。
The women should be silent in the churches, for they are not permitted to speak; but they should be subject, even as the law also says.
14:35 她们若想要学什么，可以在家里问自己的丈夫，因为妇女在召会中说话，是可耻的。
But if they desire to learn anything, they should ask their own husbands at home; for it is a shame for a woman to speak in the church.
14:36 神的话岂是从你们出来么？岂是单临到你们么？
Or was it from you that the word of God went forth? Or did it reach only to you?
14:37 若有人自以为是申言者，或是属灵的，就该清楚知道，我所写给你们的是主的命令。
If anyone thinks he is a prophet or spiritual, let him fully know the things which I write to you, that they are the commandment of the Lord.
14:38 但若有人不理会，就由他不理会吧。
But if anyone ignores this, let him ignore it.
14:39 所以我弟兄们，你们要切慕申言，也不要禁止说方言。
So then, my brothers, desire earnestly the prophesying, and do not forbid the speaking in tongues.
14:40 凡事都要端正得体的按着次序行。
But all things must be done becomingly and in order.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 15 章
15:1 弟兄们，我要你们明白我先前所传与你们的福音，这福音你们也领受了，又在其中站住；
Now I make known to you, brothers, the gospel which I announced to you, which also you received, in which also you stand,
15:2 你们若持守我所传与你们为福音的话，也必藉这福音逐渐得救，除非你们是徒然相信。
Through which also you are being saved, if you hold fast the word which I announced to you as the gospel, unless you have believed in vain.
15:3 我从前所领受又传与你们的，第一，就是基督照圣经所说，为我们的罪死了，
For I delivered to you, first of all, that which also I received, that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures;
15:4 而且埋葬了，又照圣经所说，第三天复活了；
And that He was buried, and that He has been raised on the third day according to the Scriptures;
15:5 并且向矶法显现，然后向十二使徒显现，
And that He appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve;
15:6 后来一时向五百多弟兄显现，其中大多数到如今还在，但也有些已经睡了；
Then He appeared to over five hundred brothers at one time, of whom the majority remain until now, but some have fallen asleep;
15:7 以后向雅各显现，然后向众使徒显现，
Then He appeared to James, then to all the apostles;
15:8 末了也向我这如同未到产期而生的人显现。
And last of all He appeared to me also, as it were to one born prematurely.
15:9 我原是使徒中最小的，不适于称为使徒，因为我逼迫过神的召会。
For I am the least of the apostles, who am not fit to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
15:10 然而因着神的恩，我成了我今天这个人，并且神的恩临到我，不是徒然的；反而我比众使徒格外劳苦，但这不是我，乃是神的恩与我同在。
But by the grace of God I am what I am; and His grace unto me did not turn out to be in vain, but, on the contrary, I labored more abundantly than all of them, yet
not I but the grace of God which is with me.
15:11 所以，不拘是我，是众使徒，我们如此传，你们也如此信了。
Therefore whether it is I or they, so we preach and so you have believed.
15:12 既传基督从死人中复活了，怎么在你们中间，有人说没有死人的复活？
But if Christ is proclaimed that He has been raised from the dead, how is it that some among you say that there is no resurrection of the dead?
15:13 若没有死人的复活，基督也就没有复活了；
But if there is no resurrection of the dead, neither has Christ been raised.
15:14 若基督没有复活，我们所传扬的，便是徒然，你们所信的，也是徒然，
And if Christ has not been raised, then our proclamation is vain; your faith is vain also.
15:15 我们也就被发现是神的假见证人，因为死人若真不复活，我们就是妄证神叫祂所没有复活的基督复活了。
And also we are found to be false witnesses of God because we have testified concerning God that He raised Christ, whom He did not raise, if indeed the dead
are not raised.
15:16 因为死人若不复活，基督也就没有复活了；
For if the dead are not raised, neither has Christ been raised.
15:17 基督若没有复活，你们所信的，便是枉然，你们就仍在你们的罪里。
And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile; you are still in your sins.
15:18 这样，在基督里睡了的人也灭亡了。
Then also those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished.
15:19 我们在基督里，若只在今生有指望，就是众人中最可怜的。
If it is only that we have hoped in Christ in this life, we are of all men most miserable.
15:20 但如今基督，就是睡了之人初熟的果子，已经从死人中复活。
But now Christ has been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep.
15:21 死既是借着人来的，死人的复活也是借着人来的；
For since through man came death, through man also came the resurrection of the dead.
15:22 因为在亚当里众人都死了，照样，在基督里众人也都要活过来。
For just as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive.
15:23 只是各人要按着自己的等次：初熟的果子，是基督，以后在祂来临的时候，是那些属基督的。
But each one in his own order: the firstfruits, Christ; then those who are Christ's at His coming;
15:24 再后，是末期，那时基督要将国交与神，就是父，那时祂已将一切执政的、掌权的、有能的都废除了。
Then the end, when He delivers up the kingdom to His God and Father, once He has abolished all rule and all authority and power.
15:25 因为基督必要作王，直到神把一切仇敌都放在祂的脚下。
For He must reign until God puts all His enemies under His feet.
15:26 最后所废除的仇敌，就是死，
Death, the last enemy, is being abolished.
15:27 因为神已叫万有都服在祂的脚下。祂既说万有都服了，明显那叫万有服祂的，就不在其内了。
For He has subjected all things under His feet. But when He says that all things are subjected, it is evident that all things are except Him who has subjected all
things to Him.
15:28 万有既服了祂，那时，子自己也要服那叫万有服祂的，叫神在万有中作一切。
And when all things have been subjected to Him, then the Son Himself also will be subjected to Him who has subjected all things to Him, that God may be all in
all.
15:29 不然，那些替死人受浸的，将作什么？若死人真不复活，为什么还替他们受浸？
Otherwise what shall they who are baptized for the dead do? If the dead are actually not raised, why then are they baptized for them?
15:30 我们又为什么时刻冒险？
Why also do we brave danger every hour?
15:31 弟兄们，我指着我为你们在我们主基督耶稣里所有的夸耀，郑重的说，我是天天死。
I protest by the boasting in you, brothers, which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die daily.
15:32 我若照人的作法，在以弗所同野兽战斗，那对我有什么益处？若死人不复活，我们就吃吃喝喝吧，因为明天要死了。
If after the manner of men I fought with wild beasts at Ephesus, what does it profit me? If the dead are not raised, let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die.
15:33 你们不要受迷惑：滥交败坏善行。
Do not be deceived: Evil companionships corrupt good morals.
15:34 你们要按着义清醒过来，不要犯罪，因为你们中间有人对神是无知的。我说这话，是要叫你们羞愧。
Awake from the drunken stupor righteously and do not sin, for some of you are ignorant of God. I speak to your shame.
15:35 但有人要说，死人怎样复活？带着什么样的身体来？
But someone will say, How are the dead raised? And with what kind of body do they come?
15:36 愚昧的人，你所种的，若不死就不能生；
Foolish man, what you sow is not made alive unless it dies;
15:37 并且你所种的，不是那将来的形体，乃是赤裸的子粒，也许是麦子，或其他的谷。
And what you sow, you do not sow the body that will be, but a bare grain, perhaps of wheat or of some other of the rest.
15:38 但神随自己的意思，给它一个形体，并叫各等子粒，各有自己的形体。
But God gives it a body even as He willed, and to each of the seeds its own body.
15:39 一切肉体不都是一样的肉体：人的是一样，牲畜的肉体又是一样，鸟的肉体又是一样，鱼的又是一样。
All flesh is not the same flesh, but one is of men, and another flesh is of cattle, and another is of birds, and another is of fish.
15:40 有天上的形体，也有地上的形体；但天上形体的荣耀是一样，地上形体的荣耀又是一样。
There are also heavenly bodies and earthly bodies; but the glory of the heavenly is one thing, and that of the earthly is another.
15:41 日的荣耀是一样，月的荣耀又是一样，星的荣耀另是一样，这星和那星在荣耀上也有分别。
There is another glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for star differs from star in glory.
15:42 死人的复活也是这样。在朽坏中所种的，在不朽坏中复活；
So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption;
15:43 在羞辱中所种的，在荣耀中复活；在软弱中所种的，在能力中复活。
It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power;
15:44 所种的是属魂的身体，复活的是属灵的身体。若有属魂的身体，也就有属灵的身体。
It is sown a soulish body, it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a soulish body, there is also a spiritual one.
15:45 经上也是这样记着：“首先的人亚当成了活的魂；”末后的亚当成了赐生命的灵。
So also it is written, "The first man, Adam, became a living soul''; the last Adam became a life-giving Spirit.
15:46 但不是属灵的在先，乃是属魂的在先，以后才是属灵的：
But the spiritual is not first but the soulish, then the spiritual:
15:47 头一个人是出于地，乃属土；第二个人是出于天。
The first man is out of the earth, earthy; the second man is out of heaven.
15:48 那属土的怎样，凡属土的也怎样；那属天的怎样，凡属天的也怎样。
As the earthy is, such are they also that are earthy; and as the heavenly is, such are they also that are heavenly.
15:49 我们既有属土者的形像，将来也必有属天者的形像。
And even as we have borne the image of the earthy, we will also bear the image of the heavenly.
15:50 弟兄们，我告诉你们，血肉之人不能承受神的国，朽坏的也不能承受不朽坏的。
Now this I say, brothers, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, neither does corruption inherit incorruption.
15:51 看哪，我把一个奥秘告诉你们：我们不是都要睡觉，乃是都要改变，
Behold, I tell you a mystery: We will not all sleep, but we will all be changed,
15:52 就是在一刹那，眨眼之间，末次号筒的时候；因号筒要响，死人要复活，成为不朽坏的，我们也要改变。
In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet; for the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we will be changed.
15:53 因这必朽坏的，必要穿上不朽坏；这必死的，必要穿上不死。
For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality.
15:54 几时这必朽坏的穿上不朽坏，这必死的穿上不死，经上所记“死被吞灭而致成得胜”的话，就应验了。
And when this corruptible will put on incorruption and this mortal will put on immortality, then the word which is written will come to pass, "Death has been
swallowed up unto victory.''
15:55 死阿，你的得胜在那里？死阿，你的毒刺在那里？
Where, O death, is your victory? Where, O death, is your sting?
15:56 死的毒刺就是罪，罪的权势就是律法。
The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law.
15:57 感谢神，祂借着我们的主耶稣基督，使我们得胜。
But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
15:58 所以我亲爱的弟兄们，你们务要坚固，不可摇动，常常竭力多作主工，因为知道你们的劳苦，在主里面不是徒然的。
Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord.
哥林多前书 1 Corinthians 第 16 章
16:1 关于为圣徒收集馈送，我从前怎样吩咐加拉太的众召会，你们也当怎样行。
Now concerning the collection for the saints, just as I directed the churches of Galatia, so you also do.
16:2 每逢七日的第一日，你们各人要照所得的昌盛，拿出来储存着，免得我来的时候才收集。
On the first day of the week each one of you should lay aside in store to himself whatever he may have been prospered, that no collections be made when I
come.
16:3 及至我来到，你们称许谁，我就打发他们带着信，把你们的馈送送到耶路撒冷去；
And when I arrive, whomever you approve, I will send them with letters to carry your gift to Jerusalem;
16:4 若我去也合式，他们可以和我同去。
And if it is fitting for me also to go, they will go with me.
16:5 因为我正要经过马其顿，经过了，就要到你们那里去，
Now I will come to you when I pass through Macedonia, for I will pass through Macedonia.
16:6 或许和你们同住几时，或者也过冬，以便我无论往那里去，你们都可以给我送行。
And perhaps I will stay with you, or even spend the winter, that you may send me forward wherever I may go.
16:7 我不愿意只是路过见你们，主若许，我指望和你们同住几时。
For I do not wish to see you now just in passing, for I am hoping to remain with you for some time, if the Lord permits.
16:8 但我要仍旧住在以弗所，直到五旬节，
But I will remain in Ephesus until Pentecost,
16:9 因为有宽大又有功效的门为我开了，并且反对的人也多。
For a door is opened to me, great and efficacious, and there are many opposers.
16:10 若是提摩太来到，你们要留心，叫他在你们那里无所惧怕，因为他作主的工像我一样。
Now if Timothy comes, see that he is with you without fear; for he is working the work of the Lord, even as I am.
16:11 所以无论谁，都不可藐视他。但你们要送他平安前行，使他可以到我这里来，因我正等待他和弟兄们同来。
Let no one therefore despise him, but send him forward in peace that he may come to me; for I am awaiting him with the brothers.
16:12 至于亚波罗弟兄，我再三的劝他，要同弟兄们到你们那里去；但现在他绝不愿意去，几时有了机会他必去。
And concerning our brother Apollos, I urged him many times to come to you with the brothers; yet it was not at all his desire to come now, but he will come when
he has opportunity.
16:13 你们要儆醒，在信仰上站立得住，要作大丈夫，要刚强。
Watch, stand firm in the faith, be full-grown men, be strong.
16:14 凡事你们都要在爱里作。
Let all your matters be done in love.
16:15 弟兄们，你们晓得司提反一家，是亚该亚初结的果子，并且他们委身服事圣徒；
Now I exhort you, brothers: You know the household of Stephanas, that it is the firstfruits of Achaia, and they have set themselves to minister to the saints;
16:16 我劝你们也服从这样的人，并一切同工同劳的人。
You also be subject to such ones, and to everyone co-working and laboring.
16:17 我因司提反和福徒拿都并亚该古的来临而喜乐，因为你们的不在所致使的短缺，他们都补足了，
Now I rejoice at the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus, because these have filled up the lack caused by your absence;
16:18 他们使我和你们的灵都畅快。这样的人你们务要赏识。
For they refreshed my spirit and yours. Acknowledge therefore such ones.
16:19 亚西亚的众召会问你们安。亚居拉和百基拉，并在他们家中的召会，在主里多多的问你们安。
The churches of Asia greet you. Aquila and Prisca greet you much in the Lord, with the church, which is in their house.
16:20 众弟兄都问你们安。你们要用圣别的亲嘴彼此问安。
All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
16:21 我保罗亲笔问安。
The greeting in my own hand -- Paul.
16:22 若有人不爱主，他就是可咒可诅的。主来了！
If anyone does not love the Lord, let him be accursed! The Lord comes!
16:23 愿主耶稣的恩，与你们同在。
The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you.
16:24 我在基督耶稣里的爱，与你们众人同在。
My love in Christ Jesus be with you all.