62. 约翰一书 1 John
约翰一书 1 John 第 1 章
1:1 论到那从起初原有的生命之话，就是我们所听见过的，我们亲眼所看见过的，我们所注视过，我们的手也摸过的；
That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we beheld and our hands handled, concerning the Word of
life
1:2 （这生命已经显现出来，我们也看见过，现在又作见证，将原与父同在，且显现与我们那永远的生命传与你们；）
(And the life was manifested, and we have seen and testify and report to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was manifested to us);
1:3 我们将所看见并听见的，也传与你们，使你们也可以与我们有交通；而且我们的交通，又是与父并与祂儿子耶稣基督所有的。
That which we have seen and heard we report also to you that you also may have fellowship with us, and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with His
Son Jesus Christ.
1:4 我们写这些事，是要叫我们的喜乐得以满足。
And these things we write that our joy may be made full.
1:5 神就是光，在祂里面毫无黑暗；这是我们从祂所听见，现在又报给你们的信息。
And this is the message which we have heard from Him and announce to you, that God is light and in Him is no darkness at all.
1:6 我们若说我们与神有交通，却在黑暗里行，就是说谎话，不行真理了；
If we say that we have fellowship with Him and yet walk in the darkness, we lie and are not practicing the truth;
1:7 但我们若在光中行，如同神在光中，就彼此有交通，祂儿子耶稣的血也洗净我们一切的罪。
But if we walk in the light as He is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus His Son cleanses us from every sin.
1:8 我们若说自己没有罪，便是自欺，真理就不在我们里面了。
If we say that we do not have sin, we are deceiving ourselves, and the truth is not in us.
1:9 我们若认自己的罪，神是信实的，是公义的，必要赦免我们的罪，洗净我们一切的不义。
If we confess our sins, He is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
1:10 我们若说自己没有犯过罪，便是以神为说谎的，祂的话就不在我们里面了。
If we say that we have not sinned, we make Him a liar, and His word is not in us.
约翰一书 1 John 第 2 章
2:1 我的孩子们，我将这些事写给你们，是要叫你们不犯罪。若有人犯罪，我们有一位与父同在的辩护者，就是那义者耶稣基督；
My little children, these things I write to you that you may not sin. And if anyone sins, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the Righteous;
2:2 祂为我们的罪，作了平息的祭物，不是单为我们的罪，也是为所有的世人。
And He Himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only but also for those of the whole world.
2:3 我们若遵守祂的诫命，在此就知道我们是认识祂。
And in this we know that we know Him, if we keep His commandments.
2:4 那说我认识祂，却不遵守祂诫命的，便是说谎的，真理也不在这人里面了；
He who says, I know Him, and does not keep His commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in this one;
2:5 然而凡遵守祂话的，神的爱在这人里面实在是得了成全。在此我们就知道我们是在祂里面。
But whoever keeps His word, truly in this one the love of God has been perfected. In this we know that we are in Him.
2:6 那说自己住在祂里面的，就该照祂所行的去行。
He who says he abides in Him ought himself also to walk even as He walked.
2:7 亲爱的，我写给你们的，不是一条新诫命，乃是一条你们从起初就有的旧诫命，这旧诫命就是你们所听见的话。
Beloved, I am not writing a new commandment to you but an old commandment, which you have had from the beginning; the old commandment is the word
which you heard.
2:8 再者，我写给你们的是一条新诫命，这在主并在你们都是真的；因为黑暗渐渐过去，真光已经照耀。
Yet again a new commandment I am writing to you, which is true in Him and in you because the darkness is passing away and the true light is already shining.
2:9 那说自己在光中，却恨他弟兄的，到如今还是在黑暗里。
He who says he is in the light and yet hates his brother is in the darkness until now.
2:10 那爱他弟兄的，就住在光中，在他并没有绊跌的缘由；
He who loves his brother abides in the light, and there is no cause of stumbling in him;
2:11 但那恨他弟兄的，是在黑暗里，且在黑暗里行，也不知道往那里去，因为黑暗弄瞎了他的眼睛。
But he who hates his brother is in the darkness and walks in the darkness and does not know where he is going, because the darkness has blinded his eyes.
2:12 孩子们，我写信给你们，因为你们的罪因着祂的名得了赦免。
I write to you, little children, because your sins have been forgiven you because of His name.
2:13 父老们，我写信给你们，因为你们认识那从起初原有的。青年人，我写信给你们，因为你们胜了那恶者。小孩子们，我写信给你们，因为你们认识父。
I write to you, fathers, because you know Him who is from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I write to you,
young children, because you know the Father.
2:14 父老们，我刚写信给你们，因为你们认识那从起初原有的。青年人，我刚写信给你们，因为你们刚强，神的话住在你们里面，你们也胜了那恶者。
I have written to you, fathers, because you know Him who is from the beginning. I have written to you, young men, because you are strong and the word of God
abides in you and you have overcome the evil one.
2:15 不要爱世界，和世界上的事。人若爱世界，爱父的心就不在他里面了；
Do not love the world nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, love for the Father is not in him;
2:16 因为凡世界上的事，就是肉体的情欲、眼目的情欲、并今生的骄傲，都不是出于父，乃是出于世界。
Because all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the vainglory of life, is not of the Father but is of the world.
2:17 这世界和其上的情欲，正在过去；惟独实行神旨意的，永远长存。
And the world is passing away, and its lust, but he who does the will of God abides forever.
2:18 小孩子们，如今是末时了；你们曾听见，那敌基督的要来，现在已经有好些敌基督的出来了，从此我们就知道如今是末时了。
Young children, it is the last hour; and even as you heard that antichrist is coming, even now many antichrists have come; whereby we know that it is the last
hour.
2:19 他们从我们中间出去，却不是属我们的；若是属我们的，就会仍旧与我们同在；但他们出去，是要显明他们都不是属我们的。
They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would have remained with us; but they went out that they might be manifested
that they all are not of us.
2:20 你们有从那圣者来的膏油涂抹，并且你们众人都知道。
And you have an anointing from the Holy One, and all of you know.
2:21 我刚写信给你们，不是因你们不晓得真理，正是因为你们晓得，又因为没有虚谎是出于真理的。
I have not written to you because you do not know the truth, but because you know it and because no lie is of the truth.
2:22 谁是说谎的？不是那否认耶稣是基督的么？否认父与子的，这就是敌基督的。
Who is the liar if not he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? This is the antichrist, the one who denies the Father and the Son.
2:23 凡否认子的就没有父，承认子的连父也有了。
Everyone who denies the Son does not have the Father either; he who confesses the Son has the Father also.
2:24 至于你们，务要让那从起初所听见的住在你们里面；那从起初所听见的若住在你们里面，你们也就住在子里面，并住在父里面。
As for you, that which you heard from the beginning, let it abide in you. If that which you heard from the beginning abides in you, you also will abide in the Son
and in the Father.
2:25 祂所应许我们的，就是那永远的生命。
And this is the promise which He Himself promised us, the eternal life.
2:26 我刚将这些话写给你们，是指着那些迷惑你们的人说的。
These things I have written to you concerning those who lead you astray.
2:27 你们从祂所领受的膏油涂抹，住在你们里面，并不需要人教导你们，乃有祂的膏油涂抹，在凡事上教导你们；这膏油涂抹是真实的，不是虚谎的，你
们要按这膏油涂抹所教导你们的，住在祂里面。
And as for you, the anointing which you have received from Him abides in you, and you have no need that anyone teach you; but as His anointing teaches you
concerning all things and is true and is not a lie, and even as it has taught you, abide in Him.
2:28 现在，孩子们，你们要住在主里面；这样，祂若显现，我们就可以坦然无惧，当祂来临的时候，也不至于蒙羞离开祂。
And now, little children, abide in Him, so that if He is manifested, we may have boldness and not be put to shame from Him at His coming.
2:29 你们若晓得祂是义的，就当知道凡行义的人也都是从祂生的。
If you know that He is righteous, you know that everyone who practices righteousness also has been begotten of Him.
约翰一书 1 John 第 3 章
3:1 你们看，父赐给我们的是何等的爱，使我们得称为神的儿女，我们也真是祂的儿女。世人所以不认识我们，是因未曾认识祂。
Behold what manner of love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God; and we are. Because of this the world does not know us,
because it did not know Him.
3:2 亲爱的，我们现在是神的儿女，将来如何，还未显明；但我们晓得祂若显现，我们必要像祂；因为我们必要看见祂，正如祂所是的。
Beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not yet been manifested what we will be. We know that if He is manifested, we will be like Him because we will
see Him even as He is.
3:3 凡向祂有这盼望的，就洁净自己，正如祂是洁净的一样。
And everyone who has this hope set on Him purifies himself, even as He is pure.
3:4 凡犯罪的，也行不法；罪就是不法。
Everyone who practices sin practices lawlessness also, and sin is lawlessness.
3:5 你们晓得祂曾显现，为要除去罪；在祂里面并没有罪。
And you know that He was manifested that He might take away sins; and sin is not in Him.
3:6 凡住在祂里面的，就不犯罪；凡犯罪的，是未曾看见祂，也未曾认识祂。
Everyone who abides in Him does not sin; everyone who sins has not seen Him or known Him.
3:7 孩子们，不要让人迷惑你们，行义的人才是义的，正如祂是义的一样；
Little children, let no one lead you astray; he who practices righteousness is righteous, even as He is righteous;
3:8 犯罪的是出于魔鬼，因为魔鬼从起初就犯罪。为此，神的儿子显现出来，是要消除魔鬼的作为。
He who practices sin is of the devil, because the devil has sinned from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that He might destroy the
works of the devil.
3:9 凡从神生的，就不犯罪，因为神的种子住在他里面；他也不能犯罪，因为他是从神生的。
Everyone who has been begotten of God does not practice sin, because His seed abides in him; and he cannot sin, because he has been begotten of God.
3:10 在此，神的儿女和魔鬼的儿女就显出来了。凡不行义的，就不是出于神；不爱他弟兄的也是如此。
In this the children of God and the children of the devil are manifest. Everyone who does not practice righteousness is not of God, neither he who does not love his
brother.
3:11 我们应当彼此相爱，这就是你们从起初所听见的信息；
For this is the message which you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another,
3:12 不要像该隐，他是出于那恶者，又杀了他的兄弟。为什么杀了他？因为自己的行为是恶的，兄弟的行为是义的。
Not as Cain was of the evil one and slew his brother. And for what reason did he slay him? Because his works were evil, and his brother's, righteous.
3:13 弟兄们，世人若恨你们，不要以为希奇。
Do not marvel, brothers, if the world hates you.
3:14 我们因为爱弟兄，就晓得是已经出死入生了。不爱弟兄的，仍住在死中。
We know that we have passed out of death into life because we love the brothers. He who does not love abides in death.
3:15 凡恨他弟兄的，就是杀人的；你们晓得凡杀人的，没有永远的生命住在他里面。
Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him.
3:16 主为我们舍命，在此我们就知道何为爱；我们也当为弟兄舍命。
In this we know love, that He laid down His life on our behalf, and we ought to lay down our lives on behalf of the brothers.
3:17 凡有世上养生之物的，看见弟兄有需要，却向他塞住慈心，神的爱怎能住在他里面？
But whoever has the livelihood of the world and sees that his brother has need and shuts up his affections from him, how does the love of God abide in him?
3:18 孩子们，我们相爱，不要只在言语和舌头上，总要在行为和真诚上。
Little children, let us not love in word nor in tongue but in deed and truthfulness.
3:19 在此就知道，我们是属真理的，并且我们在祂面前可以安心；
And in this we will know that we are of the truth, and we will persuade our heart before Him,
3:20 我们的心若责备我们，神比我们的心大，一切事祂都知道。
Because if our heart blames us, it is because God is greater than our heart and knows all things.
3:21 亲爱的，我们的心若不责备我们，我们就可以向神坦然无惧了；
Beloved, if our heart does not blame us, we have boldness toward God;
3:22 并且我们不论求什么，就从祂得着；因为我们遵守祂的诫命，也行祂看为可喜悦的事。
And whatever we ask we receive from Him because we keep His commandments and do the things that are pleasing in His sight.
3:23 神的诫命就是叫我们信祂儿子耶稣基督的名，并且照祂所赐给我们的诫命彼此相爱。
And this is His commandment, that we believe in the name of His Son Jesus Christ and love one another, even as He gave a commandment to us.
3:24 遵守神诫命的，就住在神里面，神也住在他里面。在此我们就知道神住在我们里面，乃是由于祂所赐给我们的那灵。
And he who keeps His commandments abides in Him, and He in him. And in this we know that He abides in us, by the Spirit whom He gave to us.
约翰一书 1 John 第 4 章
4:1 亲爱的，一切的灵，你们不可都信，总要试证那些灵是出于神的不是；因为有许多假申言者已经出来，进到世界里了。
Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but prove the spirits whether they are of God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world.
4:2 凡灵承认耶稣基督是在肉体里来的，就是出于神的；在此你们可以认出神的灵来。
In this you know the Spirit of God: Every spirit which confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God,
4:3 凡灵不承认耶稣，就不是出于神的，这是那敌基督者的灵；你们从前听见这灵要来，现在已经在世界上了。
And every spirit which does not confess Jesus is not of God; and this is the spirit of the antichrist, of which you have heard that it is coming and now is already in
the world.
4:4 孩子们，你们是出于神的，并且胜了他们；因为那在你们里面的，比那在世界上的更大。
You are of God, little children; and you have overcome them because greater is He who is in you than he who is in the world.
4:5 他们是出于世界的；所以他们的讲说乃是出于世界，世人也听从他们。
They are of the world; therefore they speak out of the world, and the world hears them.
4:6 我们是出于神的；认识神的就听从我们，不出于神的就不听从我们；从此我们可以认出真理的灵和谬妄的灵来。
We are of God; he who knows God hears us; he who is not of God does not hear us. From this we know the Spirit of truth and the spirit of deception.
4:7 亲爱的，我们应当彼此相爱，因为爱是出于神的；凡爱弟兄的，都是从神生的，并且认识神。
Beloved, let us love one another, because love is of God, and everyone who loves has been begotten of God and knows God.
4:8 不爱弟兄的，未曾认识神，因为神就是爱。
He who does not love has not known God, because God is love.
4:9 神差祂的独生子到世上来，使我们借着祂得生并活着，在此神的爱就向我们显明了。
In this the love of God was manifested among us, that God sent His only begotten Son into the world that we might have life and live through Him.
4:10 不是我们爱神，乃是神爱我们，差祂的儿子，为我们的罪作了平息的祭物，在此就是爱了。
Herein is love, not that we have loved God but that He loved us and sent His Son as a propitiation for our sins.
4:11 亲爱的，神既是这样爱我们，我们也当彼此相爱。
Beloved, if God has loved us in this way, we also ought to love one another.
4:12 从来没有人见过神；我们若彼此相爱，神就住在我们里面，祂的爱也在我们里面得了成全。
No one has beheld God at any time; if we love one another, God abides in us, and His love is perfected in us.
4:13 神已将祂的灵赐给我们，在此就知道我们住在祂里面，祂也住在我们里面。
In this we know that we abide in Him and He in us, that He has given to us of His Spirit.
4:14 父差子作世人的救主，这是我们所看见，现在又作见证的。
And we have beheld and testify that the Father has sent the Son as the Savior of the world.
4:15 凡承认耶稣是神儿子的，神就住在他里面，他也住在神里面。
Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him and he in God.
4:16 神在我们身上的爱，我们也知道也信。神就是爱，住在爱里面的，就住在神里面，神也住在他里面。
And we know and have believed the love which God has in us. God is love, and he who abides in love abides in God and God abides in him.
4:17 在此，爱在我们便得了成全，使我们在审判的日子，可以坦然无惧；因为祂如何，我们在这世上也如何。
In this has love been perfected with us, that we may have boldness in the day of the judgment because even as He is, so also are we in this world.
4:18 爱里没有惧怕，完全的爱把惧怕驱除，因为惧怕含有刑罚，惧怕的人在爱里未得成全。
There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear because fear has punishment, and he who fears has not been perfected in love.
4:19 我们爱，因为神先爱我们。
We love because He first loved us.
4:20 人若说，我爱神，却恨他的弟兄，就是说谎的；不爱他所看见的弟兄，就不能爱没有看见的神。
If anyone says, I love God, and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not love his brother, whom he has seen, cannot love God, whom he has not seen.
4:21 爱神的，也当爱他的弟兄，这是我们从祂所受的诫命。
And this commandment we have from Him, that he who loves God love his brother also.
约翰一书 1 John 第 5 章
5:1 凡信耶稣是基督的，都是从神生的；凡爱那生他的，也爱从祂生的。
Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been begotten of God, and everyone who loves Him who has begotten loves him also who has been begotten
of Him.
5:2 我们若爱神，并行祂的诫命，在此就知道我们爱神的儿女。
In this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and do His commandments.
5:3 我们遵守神的诫命，这就是爱祂了；并且祂的诫命不是难担的；
For this is the love of God, that we keep His commandments; and His commandments are not burdensome.
5:4 因为凡从神生之物，就胜过世界，胜过世界的，就是我们的信。
For everything that has been begotten of God overcomes the world; and this is the victory which has overcome the world -- our faith.
5:5 胜过世界的是谁？不就是那信耶稣是神儿子的么？
And who is he who overcomes the world except him who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
5:6 这借着水与血来的，就是耶稣基督；不是单凭着水，乃是凭着水，又凭着血；并且作见证的就是那灵，因为那灵就是实际。
This is He who came through water and blood, Jesus Christ; not in the water only, but in the water and in the blood; and the Spirit is He who testifies, because the
Spirit is the reality.
5:7 作见证的原来有三，
For there are three who testify,
5:8 就是那灵、水与血，这三样也都归于一。
The Spirit and the water and the blood, and the three are unto the one thing.
5:9 我们若领受人的见证，神的见证更大，因为这是神为祂儿子所作的见证。
If we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater, because this is the testimony of God that He has testified concerning His Son.
5:10 信入神儿子的，就有这见证在他里面。不信神的，就是将神当作说谎的，因他不信入神为祂儿子所作的见证。
He who believes into the Son of God has the testimony in himself; he who does not believe God has made Him a liar because he has not believed in the
testimony which God has testified concerning His Son.
5:11 这见证就是神赐给我们永远的生命，这生命也是在祂儿子里面。
And this is the testimony, that God gave to us eternal life and this life is in His Son.
5:12 人有了神的儿子，就有生命；没有神的儿子，就没有生命。
He who has the Son has the life; he who does not have the Son of God does not have the life.
5:13 我将这些话写给你们信入神儿子之名的人，要叫你们晓得自己有永远的生命。
I have written these things to you that you may know that you have eternal life, to you who believe into the name of the Son of God.
5:14 我们若照祂的旨意求什么，祂就听我们；这是我们向着祂所存坦然无惧的心。
And this is the boldness which we have toward Him, that if we ask anything according to His will, He hears us.
5:15 我们若知道祂听我们一切所求的，就知道我们所求于祂的无不得着。
And if we know that He hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests which we have asked from Him.
5:16 人若看见他的弟兄犯了不至于死的罪，就当为他祈求，将生命赐给他，就是给那些犯了不至于死之罪的。有至于死的罪，我不说当为那罪祈求。
If anyone sees his brother sinning a sin not unto death, he shall ask and he will give life to him, to those sinning not unto death. There is a sin unto death; I do not
say that he should make request concerning that.
5:17 一切的不义都是罪，也有不至于死的罪。
All unrighteousness is sin, and there is sin not unto death.
5:18 我们晓得凡从神生的都不犯罪，那从神生的，保守自己，那恶者也就不摸他。
We know that everyone who is begotten of God does not sin, but he who has been begotten of God keeps himself, and the evil one does not touch him.
5:19 我们晓得我们是属神的，而整个世界都卧在那恶者里面。
We know that we are of God, and the whole world lies in the evil one.
5:20 我们也晓得神的儿子已经来到，且将悟性赐给我们，使我们可以认识那位真实的；我们也在那位真实的里面，就是在祂儿子耶稣基督里面。这是真神，
也是永远的生命。
And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us an understanding that we might know Him who is true; and we are in Him who is true, in His Son
Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life.
5:21 孩子们，你们要保守自己，远避偶像。
Little children, guard yourselves from idols.