52. 帖撒罗尼迦前书 1 Thessalonians
帖撒罗尼迦前书 1 Thessalonians 第 1 章
1:1 保罗、西拉和提摩太，写信给在父神和主耶稣基督里，帖撒罗尼迦人的召会：愿恩典与平安归与你们。
Paul and Silvanus and Timothy to the church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ: Grace to you and peace.
1:2 我们为你们众人常常感谢神，在祷告中常提到你们；
We thank God always concerning all of you, making mention of you in our prayers,
1:3 在我们的神与父面前，不住的记念你们信心的工作，爱心的劳苦，并对我们主耶稣基督之盼望的忍耐；
Remembering unceasingly your work of faith and labor of love and endurance of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ, before our God and Father;
1:4 蒙神所爱的弟兄们，我们知道你们是蒙拣选的，
Knowing, brothers, beloved of God, your selection;
1:5 因为我们的福音传到你们那里，不仅在于言语，也在于能力和圣灵，并充足的确信，正如你们知道，我们在你们中间，为你们的缘故是怎样为人。
For our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and in much assurance, even as you know what kind of men we were
among you for your sake.
1:6 并且你们在大患难之中，带着圣灵的喜乐，领受了主的话，就效法我们，也效法了主，
And you became imitators of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction with joy of the Holy Spirit,
1:7 以致你们成了马其顿和亚该亚所有信徒的榜样。
So that you became a pattern to all those who believe in Macedonia and in Achaia.
1:8 因为主的话从你们那里已经宣扬出来，不单在马其顿和亚该亚，就是在各处，你们向神的信心也都传开了，所以不用我们说什么；
For from you the word of the Lord has sounded out; not only in Macedonia and in Achaia, but in every place, your faith toward God has gone out, so that we have
no need of saying anything.
1:9 因为他们自己正在传报关于我们的事，就是我们是怎样的进到了你们那里，你们又是怎样离弃了偶像转向神，来服事又活又真的神，
For they themselves report concerning us what kind of entrance we had toward you and how you turned to God from the idols to serve a living and true God
1:10 并且等候祂的儿子从诸天降临，就是祂从死人中所复活，那拯救我们脱离要来忿怒的耶稣。
And await His Son from the heavens, whom He raised from the dead, Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath which is coming.
帖撒罗尼迦前书 1 Thessalonians 第 2 章
2:1 弟兄们，你们自己原晓得，我们进到你们那里，并不是徒然的。
For you yourselves know, brothers, our entrance toward you, that it has not been in vain.
2:2 我们从前在腓立比受苦害，又被凌辱，就如你们所知道的，然而还是在我们的神里面放胆，在极大的争战中，对你们讲说了神的福音。
But having suffered previously and having been outrageously treated, even as you know, in Philippi, we were bold in our God to speak to you the gospel of God
in much struggle.
2:3 我们的劝勉不是出于错谬，不是出于污秽，也不是用诡诈；
For our exhortation is not out of deception nor out of uncleanness nor in guile;
2:4 但神怎样验中了我们，把福音托付我们，我们就照样讲，不是要讨人喜欢，乃是要讨那察验我们心的神喜欢。
But even as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak, not as pleasing men but God, who proves our hearts.
2:5 因为我们从来没有用过谄媚的话，就如你们所知道的；也没有藉掩饰而贪婪，这是神可以作见证的。
For neither were we found at any time with flattering speech, even as you know, nor with a pretext for covetousness; God is witness.
2:6 我们作基督的使徒，虽然有权利叫人尊重，却没有向你们，或向别人，寻求从人来的荣耀；
Nor did we seek glory from men, neither from you nor from others, though we could have stood on our authority as apostles of Christ.
2:7 只在你们中间为人温和，如同乳母顾惜自己的孩子。
But we were gentle in your midst, as a nursing mother would cherish her own children.
2:8 我们这样切慕你们，不但乐意将神的福音分给你们，连自己的性命也愿意分给你们，因你们是我们所爱的。
Yearning in this way over you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God but also our own souls, because you became beloved to us.
2:9 弟兄们，你们原记得我们的劳碌辛苦；我们是昼夜作工，把神的福音传扬给你们，免得叫你们任何人受累。
For you remember, brothers, our labor and travail: While working night and day so as not to be burdensome to any of you, we proclaimed to you the gospel of
God.
2:10 你们和神可以作见证，我们向你们信的人，是何等圣、义、无可指摘，
You are witnesses, as well as God, how in a holy and righteous and blameless manner we conducted ourselves toward you who believe,
2:11 正如你们所知道的，我们怎样劝勉你们，抚慰你们，向你们作见证，待你们每一个人，好像父亲待自己的孩子一样；
Just as you know how we were to each one of you, as a father to his own children, exhorting you and consoling you and testifying,
2:12 要叫你们行事为人，配得过那召你们进入祂自己的国和荣耀的神。
So that you might walk in a manner worthy of God, who calls you into His own kingdom and glory.
2:13 所以，我们也不住的感谢神，因为你们既接受了从我们所听见神的话，就不以为是人的话，乃以为是神的话而领受了；这话确是神的，也运行在你们
信的人里面。
And because of this we also thank God unceasingly that when you received the word of God, which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men
but even as it truly is, the word of God, which also operates in you who believe.
2:14 弟兄们，你们曾效法犹太地在基督耶稣里神的众召会；因为你们也受了自己同族人同样的苦害，正如他们从犹太人所受的一样。
For you, brothers, became imitators of the churches of God which are in Judea in Christ Jesus, for you also suffered the same things from your own countrymen,
even as they also from the Jews,
2:15 这些犹太人杀了主耶稣和申言者，又驱逐了我们；他们不得神的喜悦，且与众人敌对；
Who both killed the Lord Jesus and the prophets and drove us out; and they are not pleasing to God and are contrary to all men,
2:16 拦阻我们向外邦人讲道，使他们得救，以致常常充满自己的罪。忿怒临到他们身上，已经到了极处。
In that they forbid us to speak to the Gentiles that they may be saved, so that they fill up their sins always. But wrath has come upon them to the uttermost.
2:17 弟兄们，我们如同丧失亲人一般，暂时与你们分离，是面目的，不是心里的，我们越发急切，极其巴望要见你们的面。
But we, brothers, having been bereaved of you for a little while, in presence, not in heart, were more abundantly eager with great desire to see your face.
2:18 所以我们有意到你们那里，我保罗确曾一次两次要去，只是撒但拦阻了我们。
Therefore we wanted to come to you, indeed I Paul, both once and again, yet Satan hindered us.
2:19 我们主耶稣来临的时候，我们在祂面前的盼望、喜乐、或所夸的冠冕是什么？不就是你们么？
For what is our hope or joy or crown of boasting before our Lord Jesus at His coming? Are not even you?
2:20 因为你们就是我们的荣耀、我们的喜乐。
For you are our glory and joy.
帖撒罗尼迦前书 1 Thessalonians 第 3 章
3:1 所以，我们既不能再忍受，就乐意独自留在雅典，
Therefore when we could bear it no longer, we thought it good to be left in Athens alone,
3:2 打发我们的弟兄，在基督福音上作神同工的提摩太去，为着你们的信心，坚固并鼓励你们，
And we sent Timothy, our brother and God's fellow worker in the gospel of Christ, to establish and encourage you for the sake of your faith,
3:3 免得有人被诸般患难摇动。你们自己知道，我们受患难原是派定的。
That no one would be shaken by these afflictions; for you yourselves know that we are appointed for this.
3:4 我们在你们那里的时候，预先告诉你们，我们将会受患难，这果然发生了，你们也知道。
For even when we were with you, we told you beforehand that we are to be afflicted, even as it also came to pass and you know.
3:5 所以，我再也不能忍受，就打发人去，要知道你们的信心如何，恐怕那试诱者试诱了你们，叫我们的劳苦归于徒然。
Because of this, when I also could bear it no longer, I sent to find out concerning your faith, lest perhaps the tempter had tempted you and our labor would be in
vain.
3:6 但现在提摩太从你们那里来到我们这里，将你们信心和爱心的好消息报给我们，又说你们常常亲切的记念我们，渴慕见我们，如同我们渴慕见你们一
样。
But Timothy, having just come to us from you and announcing the good news to us of your faith and love and that you have kind remembrance of us always and
long to see us, just as we also you,
3:7 所以弟兄们，我们在一切贫困和患难之中，借着你们的信心，就在你们身上得了安慰；
Because of this we were comforted because of you, brothers, in all our necessity and affliction, through your faith;
3:8 因为现今你们若在主里站立得住，我们就活了。
Because now we live if you stand firm in the Lord.
3:9 我们在我们的神面前，因着你们甚是喜乐，为这一切的喜乐，能用何等的感谢，为你们报答神？
For what thanks can we return to God concerning you for all the joy with which we rejoice because of you before our God,
3:10 我们昼夜格外恳切的祈求，要见你们的面，补足你们信心的缺欠。
Night and day petitioning exceedingly so that we may see your face and complete the things that are lacking in your faith?
3:11 愿我们的神与父自己，和我们的主耶稣，修直我们到你们那里去的路。
Now may our God and Father Himself and our Lord Jesus make straight our path to you;
3:12 又愿主使你们彼此的爱并对众人的爱，都能增多洋溢，正如我们对你们一样；
And the Lord cause you to increase and abound in love to one another and to all, just as we also to you,
3:13 好使你们的心，当我们主耶稣同祂众圣徒来临的时候，在我们的神与父面前，得以坚固，在圣别上无可指摘。
So that He may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all His saints.
帖撒罗尼迦前书 1 Thessalonians 第 4 章
4:1 还有，弟兄们，我们在主耶稣里请求并劝勉你们，你们既然接受了我们的教训，知道当怎样行，并怎样讨神的喜悦，就要照你们现在所行的，更加充
盈超越。
Furthermore, brothers, we ask and exhort you in the Lord Jesus that even as you received from us how you ought to walk and please God, even as indeed you do
walk, that you abound still more.
4:2 你们原晓得，我们借着主耶稣给了你们什么嘱咐。
For you know what charges we gave you through the Lord Jesus.
4:3 神的旨意就是要你们圣别，禁戒淫乱；
For this is the will of God, your sanctification: that you abstain from fornication;
4:4 要你们各人晓得，怎样用圣别和尊贵，持守自己的器皿，
That each one of you know how to possess his own vessel in sanctification and honor,
4:5 不放纵私欲的邪情，像那不认识神的外邦人；
Not in the passion of lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God;
4:6 也不要在这事上越分，占他弟兄的便宜；因为关于这一切的事，主必报应，就如我们先前告诉过你们，又郑重见证过的。
That no one overstep and take advantage of his brother in the matter, because the Lord is the avenger concerning all these things, even as we also said before to
you and solemnly charged.
4:7 神本是在圣别中召了我们，并不是要我们沾染污秽。
For God has not called us for uncleanness but in sanctification.
4:8 所以那弃绝的，不是弃绝人，乃是弃绝那位将祂的圣灵赐给你们的神。
Consequently, he who rejects, rejects not man but God, who also gives His Holy Spirit to you.
4:9 关于弟兄相爱，不用我写信给你们，因为你们自己蒙了神的教导，叫你们彼此相爱；
Now concerning brotherly love, you have no need for me to write to you, for you yourselves are taught of God to love one another;
4:10 其实，你们向全马其顿所有的弟兄，就是这样行。但弟兄们，我们劝你们要更加充盈超越；
For you also do this unto all the brothers in the whole of Macedonia. But we exhort you, brothers, to abound still more
4:11 又要立定志向作安静人，办自己的事，亲手作工，正如我们曾嘱咐过你们的，
And to aspire to be quiet and attend to your own affairs and work with your hands, even as we charged you,
4:12 叫你们对外人行事端正得体，自己也就没有什么缺乏了。
That you may walk becomingly toward those outside and may have need of nothing.
4:13 关于睡了的人，弟兄们，我们不愿意你们无知无识，恐怕你们忧伤，像其余没有盼望的人一样。
But we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, concerning those who are sleeping, that you would not grieve even as also the rest who have no hope.
4:14 因为我们若信耶稣死而复活了，神也必照样将那些已经借着耶稣睡了的人与祂一同带来。
For if we believe that Jesus died and rose, so also those who have fallen asleep through Jesus, God will bring with Him.
4:15 我们现在凭着主的话，告诉你们这件事，就是我们这些活着还存留到主来临的人，绝不能在那已经睡了的人之先；
For this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are living, who are left remaining unto the coming of the Lord, shall by no means precede those who
have fallen asleep;
4:16 因为主必亲自从天降临，有发令的呼叫，有天使长的声音，又有神的号声，那在基督里死了的人必先复活，
Because the Lord Himself, with a shout of command, with the voice of the archangel and with the trumpet of God, will descend from heaven, and the dead in
Christ will rise first.
4:17 然后我们这些活着还存留的人，必同时与他们一起被提到云里，在空中与主相会；这样，我们就要和主常常同在。
Then we who are living, who are left remaining, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air; and thus we will be always with the
Lord.
4:18 所以你们当用这些话彼此安慰。
Therefore comfort one another with these words.
帖撒罗尼迦前书 1 Thessalonians 第 5 章
5:1 弟兄们，关于时候与时期，不用写信给你们；
But concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need for anything to be written to you;
5:2 因为你们自己明确晓得，主的日子来到，好像夜间的贼一样。
For you yourselves know perfectly well that like a thief in the night, so the day of the Lord comes.
5:3 人正说平安稳妥的时候，毁灭忽然临到他们，如同产难临到怀胎的妇人一样，他们绝不能逃脱。
When they say, Peace and security, then sudden destruction comes upon them, just as birth pangs to a woman with child; and they shall by no means escape.
5:4 弟兄们，你们却不在黑暗里，叫那日子像贼一样突然抓住你们；
But you, brothers, are not in darkness that the day should overtake you like a thief;
5:5 因为你们都是光明之子和白昼之子。我们不是属黑夜的，也不是属黑暗的。
For you are all sons of light and sons of the day. We are not of the night nor of darkness.
5:6 所以我们不要睡觉，像其余的人一样，总要儆醒谨守。
So then let us not sleep, as the rest do, but let us watch and be sober.
5:7 因为睡了的人是在夜间睡，醉了的人是在夜间醉。
For those who sleep, sleep during the night, and those who get drunk are drunk during the night;
5:8 但我们既是属于白昼，就当谨慎自守，穿上信和爱的胸甲，并戴上救恩之望的头盔。
But since we are of the day, let us be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love and a helmet, the hope of salvation.
5:9 因为神没有派定我们受忿怒，乃是派定我们借着我们的主耶稣基督得着救恩。
For God did not appoint us to wrath but to the obtaining of salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
5:10 祂为我们死，好叫我们无论醒着或睡着，都可与祂同活。
Who died for us in order that whether we watch or sleep, we may live together with Him.
5:11 所以你们要彼此安慰，互相建造，正如你们一向所行的。
Therefore comfort one another, and build up each one the other, even as you also do.
5:12 弟兄们，我们还请求你们，要敬重那些在你们中间劳苦，并在主里带领你们，劝戒你们的人，
Furthermore we ask you, brothers, to acknowledge those who labor among you and take the lead among you in the Lord and admonish you,
5:13 又因他们所作的工，在爱里格外尊重他们；你们也要彼此和睦。
And to regard them most highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves.
5:14 弟兄们，我们劝你们，要劝戒不守规矩的人，抚慰灰心的人，扶持软弱的人，又要对众人恒忍。
And we exhort you, brothers, Admonish the disorderly, console the fainthearted, sustain the weak, be long-suffering toward all.
5:15 你们要当心，谁都不可以恶报恶，却要在彼此相待，或对待众人上，常常竭力追求良善。
See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always pursue what is good both for one another and for all.
5:16 要常常喜乐，
Always rejoice,
5:17 不住的祷告，
Unceasingly pray,
5:18 凡事谢恩；因为这是神在基督耶稣里对你们的旨意。
In everything give thanks; for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you.
5:19 不要销灭那灵，
Do not quench the Spirit;
5:20 不要藐视申言者的话，
Do not despise prophecies,
5:21 但要凡事察验，善美的要持守，
But prove all things. Hold fast to what is good;
5:22 各种的恶事要远离禁作。
Abstain from every kind of evil.
5:23 且愿和平的神，亲自全然圣别你们，又愿你们的灵、与魂、与身子得蒙保守，在我们主耶稣基督来临的时候，得以完全，无可指摘。
And the God of peace Himself sanctify you wholly, and may your spirit and soul and body be preserved complete, without blame, at the coming of our Lord Jesus
Christ.
5:24 那召你们的是信实的，祂也必作成这事。
Faithful is He who calls you, who also will do it.
5:25 弟兄们，请为我们祷告。
Brothers, pray also for us.
5:26 你们要用圣别的亲嘴问众弟兄安。
Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss.
5:27 我指着主吩咐你们，要把这信念给众弟兄听。
I adjure you by the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers.
5:28 愿我们主耶稣基督的恩与你们同在。
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.