54. 提摩太前书 1 Timothy
提摩太前书 1 Timothy 第 1 章
1:1 照着神我们的救主、和基督耶稣我们的盼望的命令，作基督耶稣使徒的保罗，
Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus according to the command of God our Savior and of Christ Jesus our hope,
1:2 写信给那凭信作我真孩子的提摩太：愿恩典、怜悯、平安，从父神和我们的主基督耶稣归与你。
To Timothy, genuine child in faith: Grace, mercy, peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
1:3 我往马其顿去的时候，曾劝你仍住在以弗所，好嘱咐那几个人，不可教导与神的经纶不同的事，
Even as I exhorted you, when I was going into Macedonia, to remain in Ephesus in order that you might charge certain ones not to teach different things
1:4 也不可注意虚构无稽之事，和无穷的家谱；这等事只引起辩论，对于神在信仰里的经纶并无助益。
Nor to give heed to myths and unending genealogies, which produce questionings rather than God's economy, which is in faith.
1:5 这嘱咐的目的乃是爱，这爱是出于清洁的心、无亏的良心、并无伪的信心。
But the end of the charge is love out of a pure heart and out of a good conscience and out of unfeigned faith;
1:6 有人失去目标，偏离这些，转向虚空的谈论，
From which things some, having misaimed, have turned aside to vain talking,
1:7 想要作律法的教师，却不明白自己所讲说、所断定的。
Desiring to be teachers of the law, though they understand neither the things that they say, nor concerning what they confidently affirm.
1:8 我们晓得律法是好的，只要人用得合法，
But we know that the law is good, if one uses it lawfully
1:9 知道律法不是为义人设立的，乃是为不法和不服的、不敬虔和犯罪的、不圣和世俗的、殴打父母的、杀人的、
And knows this, that the law is not enacted for a righteous man but for the lawless and unruly, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for those
who strike their fathers and those who strike their mothers, for murderers,
1:10 淫乱的、同性恋的、拐人的、说谎的、起假誓的、以及其他敌对健康教训之事设立的，
For fornicators, homosexuals, kidnappers, liars, perjurers, and whatever other thing that is opposed to the healthy teaching,
1:11 这是照着那托付与我，可称颂之神荣耀的福音说的。
According to the gospel of the glory of the blessed God, with which I was entrusted.
1:12 我感谢那加我能力的，我们的主基督耶稣，因祂以我为忠信，派我尽职事。
I give thanks to Him who empowers me, Christ Jesus our Lord, that He has counted me faithful, appointing me to the ministry,
1:13 我从前是亵渎神的、逼迫人的、侮慢人的；然而我蒙了怜悯，因我是在不信中，无知而作的。
Who formerly was a blasphemer and a persecutor and an insulting person; but I was shown mercy because, being ignorant, I acted in unbelief.
1:14 并且我们主的恩是格外增多，使我在基督耶稣里有信，又有爱。
And the grace of our Lord superabounded with faith and love in Christ Jesus.
1:15 基督耶稣降世，为要拯救罪人，这话是可信的，是值得完全接受的；在罪人中我是个罪魁。
Faithful is the word and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am foremost.
1:16 然而，我所以蒙了怜悯，是要叫耶稣基督在我这罪魁身上，显示祂一切的恒忍，给后来信靠祂得永远生命的人作榜样。
But because of this I was shown mercy, that in me, the foremost, Jesus Christ might display all His long-suffering for a pattern to those who are to believe on Him
unto eternal life.
1:17 但愿尊贵荣耀归与那永世的君王，就是那不能朽坏、不能看见、独一的神，直到永永远远。阿们。
Now to the King of the ages, incorruptible, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory for ever and ever. Amen.
1:18 孩子提摩太，我照从前指着你所说的预言，将这嘱咐交托你，叫你凭这些预言，可以打那美好的仗，
This charge I commit to you, my child Timothy, according to the prophecies previously made concerning you, that by them you might war the good warfare,
1:19 持守信心和无亏的良心；有人丢弃这些，就在信仰上犹如船破，
Holding faith and a good conscience, concerning which some, thrusting these away, have become shipwrecked regarding the faith;
1:20 其中有许米乃和亚力山大，我已经把他们交给撒但，使他们受管教，不再谤讟。
Of whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have delivered to Satan that they may be disciplined not to blaspheme.
提摩太前书 1 Timothy 第 2 章
2:1 所以我劝你，第一要为万人祈求、祷告、代求、感谢；
I exhort therefore, first of all, that petitions, prayers, intercessions, thanksgivings be made on behalf of all men;
2:2 为君王和一切有权位的也该如此，使我们可以十分敬虔庄重的过平静安宁的生活。
On behalf of kings and all who are in high position, that we may lead a quiet and tranquil life in all godliness and gravity.
2:3 这在我们的救主神面前，是美好且蒙悦纳的。
This is good and acceptable in the sight of our Savior God,
2:4 祂愿意万人得救，并且完全认识真理；
Who desires all men to be saved and to come to the full knowledge of the truth.
2:5 因为只有一位神，在神和人中间，也只有一位中保，就是那人基督耶稣；
For there is one God and one Mediator of God and men, the man Christ Jesus,
2:6 祂舍了自己，为万人作赎价，在适当的时期，这事就证明出来；
Who gave Himself as a ransom for all, the testimony to be borne in its own times.
2:7 我为此被派，在信仰和真理上，作传扬者，作使徒，（我说的是真话，并不是谎言，）作外邦人的教师。
For which I was appointed a herald and an apostle (I speak the truth; I do not lie), a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth.
2:8 所以，我愿男人无忿怒，无争论，举起虔圣的手，随处祷告。
I desire therefore that men pray in every place, lifting up holy hands, without wrath and reasoning;
2:9 照样，也愿女人穿着正派合宜，以廉耻、自守，不以编发、黄金、珍珠、或贵价的衣服，妆饰自己，
Similarly, that women adorn themselves in proper clothing with modesty and sobriety, not with braided hair and gold or pearls or costly clothing,
2:10 乃借着善行，以那适宜于自称是敬神之女人的为妆饰。
But, what befits women professing godly reverence, by good works.
2:11 女人要安静学习，凡事服从。
Let a woman learn in quietness in all subjection;
2:12 我不许女人施教，也不许她揽权辖管男人，只要安静。
But I do not permit a woman to teach or to assert authority over a man, but to be in quietness.
2:13 因为先造的是亚当，后造的是夏娃；
For Adam was formed first, then Eve;
2:14 并且不是亚当受欺骗，乃是女人受诱骗，陷在过犯里。
And Adam was not deceived; but the woman, having been quite deceived, has fallen into transgression.
2:15 然而女人若活在信、爱、圣别兼自守中，就必借着生产得救。
But she will be saved through her childbearing, if they remain in faith and love and holiness with sobriety.
提摩太前书 1 Timothy 第 3 章
3:1 人若渴望得监督的职分，就是羡慕善工；这话是可信的。
Faithful is the word: If anyone aspires to the overseership, he desires a good work.
3:2 所以作监督的必须无可指责，只作一个妻子的丈夫，节制适度，清明自守，端正规矩，乐意待客，善于教导；
The overseer then must be without reproach, the husband of one wife, temperate, of a sober mind, orderly, hospitable, apt to teach;
3:3 不醉酒滋事，不打人，只要和蔼，不争竞，不贪财；
Not an excessive drinker; not a striker, but gentle; not contentious; not fond of money;
3:4 好好管理自己的家，使儿女凡事庄重服从。
One who manages well his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity
3:5 人若不知道管理自己的家，怎能照料神的召会？
(But if one does not know how to manage his own house, how will he care for the church of God?);
3:6 初信的不可作监督，恐怕他为高傲所蒙蔽，就落在魔鬼所受的审判里。
Not a new convert, lest being blinded with pride he fall into the judgment suffered by the devil.
3:7 监督也必须在外人中间有好见证，恐怕他落在魔鬼借着人的辱骂所设的网罗里。
And he also must have a good testimony from those outside, that he may not fall into reproach and the snare of the devil.
3:8 作执事的也是如此，必须庄重，不一口两舌，不酗酒成瘾，不贪卑鄙的利益；
Deacons must similarly be grave, not double-tongued, not addicted to much wine, not greedy for base gain;
3:9 用清洁的良心持守信仰的奥秘。
Holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience.
3:10 这些人也要先受试验，若是无可指责，才给他们服事。
And these also must first be proved; then let them minister if they are unreprovable.
3:11 女人也是如此，必须庄重，不说谗言，节制适度，凡事忠信。
Women similarly must be grave, not slanderers, temperate, faithful in all things.
3:12 执事只可作一个妻子的丈夫，好好管理儿女和自己的家。
Deacons must be husbands of one wife, managing their children and their own houses well.
3:13 因为善于服事的，自己就得到美好的地步，并且在基督耶稣里的信仰上大有胆量。
For those who have ministered well obtain for themselves a good standing and much boldness in faith, which is in Christ Jesus.
3:14 我将这些事写给你，指望快到你那里去，
These things I write to you, hoping to come to you shortly.
3:15 倘若我耽延，你也可以知道在神的家中当怎样行；这家就是活神的召会，真理的柱石和根基。
But if I delay, I write that you may know how one ought to conduct himself in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and base of the
truth.
3:16 并且，大哉！敬虔的奥秘！这是众所公认的，就是：祂显现于肉体，被称义于灵里，被天使看见，被传于万邦，被信仰于世人中，被接去于荣耀里。
And confessedly, great is the mystery of godliness: He who was manifested in the flesh, Justified in the Spirit, Seen by angels, Preached among the nations,
Believed on in the world, Taken up in glory.
提摩太前书 1 Timothy 第 4 章
4:1 但那灵明说，在后来的时期，必有人离弃信仰，去注意迷惑人的灵和鬼的教训；
But the Spirit says expressly that in later times some will depart from the faith, giving heed to deceiving spirits and teachings of demons
4:2 这乃是借着说谎之人的假冒，他们自己的良心犹如给热铁烙过；
By means of the hypocrisy of men who speak lies, of men who are branded in their own conscience as with a hot iron,
4:3 他们禁止嫁娶，禁戒食物，就是神所造，给那些信的人，并认识真理的人，感谢着享受的。
Who forbid marriage and command abstaining from foods, which God has created to be partaken of with thanksgiving by those who believe and have full
knowledge of the truth.
4:4 因为凡神所造的都是好的，若感谢着领受，就没有一样是可弃的，
For every creature of God is good, and nothing is to be rejected if received with thanksgiving;
4:5 都借着神的话和人的代求，成为圣别了。
For it is sanctified through the word of God and intercession.
4:6 你将这些事提醒弟兄们，便是基督耶稣的好执事，在信仰的话，并你向来所紧紧跟随善美教训的话上，得了喂养。
If you lay these things before the brothers, you will be a good minister of Christ Jesus, being nourished with the words of the faith and of the good teaching which
you have closely followed.
4:7 只是要弃绝那世俗的言语，和老妇的虚构无稽之事，并要操练自己以至于敬虔。
But the profane and old-womanish myths refuse, and exercise yourself unto godliness.
4:8 因为操练身体益处还少；惟独敬虔，凡事都有益处，有今生和来生的应许。
For bodily exercise is profitable for a little, but godliness is profitable for all things, having promise of the present life and of that which is to come.
4:9 这话是可信的，是值得完全接受的。
Faithful is the word and worthy of all acceptance.
4:10 我们劳苦并竭力奋斗，正是为此，因我们乃是寄望于活的神，祂是万人的救主，更是信徒的救主。
For to this end we labor and strive, because we have set our hope on the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of those who believe.
4:11 这些事你要嘱咐人，也要教导人。
Charge and teach these things.
4:12 不可叫人小看你年轻，总要在言语、为人、爱、信、纯洁上，都作信徒的榜样。
Let no one despise your youth, but be a pattern to the believers in word, in conduct, in love, in faith, in purity.
4:13 你要注重宣读、劝勉、教导，直等到我来。
Until I come, attend to the public reading, to the exhortation, to the teaching.
4:14 不要轻忽在你里面的恩赐，就是从前借着预言，同众长老按手所赐给你的。
Do not neglect the gift which is in you, which was given to you by means of prophecy with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery.
4:15 这些事你要殷勤实行，并要投身其中，使众人看出你的长进来。
Practice these things; be in them, that your progress may be manifest to all.
4:16 你要留意自己和自己的教训；要在这些事上持之以恒，因为这样行，又能救自己，又能救听你的人。
Take heed to yourself and to your teaching; continue in these things; for in doing this you will save both yourself and cthose who hear you.
提摩太前书 1 Timothy 第 5 章
5:1 不可严责老年人，只要劝他如同父亲，劝青年人如同弟兄，
Do not upbraid an elderly man, but exhort him as a father, younger men as brothers,
5:2 劝老年妇女如同母亲，用全般的纯洁，劝青年妇女如同姊妹。
Elderly women as mothers, younger women as sisters, in all purity.
5:3 要尊敬寡妇，就是那真为寡妇的。
Honor widows who are really widows.
5:4 若寡妇有儿女，或有孙子孙女，便叫他们先学着孝敬自己的家人，用回敬的奉养报答母亲或祖母，因为这在神面前是可悦纳的。
But if any widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show respect toward their own household and to render a return to their parents; for this is
acceptable in the sight of God.
5:5 那独居无靠真为寡妇的，是寄望于神，昼夜不住的祈求祷告。
Now she who is really a widow and is left alone has set her hope on God and continues in petitions and prayers night and day.
5:6 但那奢侈宴乐的寡妇，虽然活着，也是死的。
But she who gives herself to pleasure is dead while living.
5:7 这些事你要嘱咐她们，使她们无可指责。
These things also charge, that they may be without reproach.
5:8 人若不供养自己的亲属，尤其是自己的家人，就是弃绝了信仰，比不信的人还不如。
But if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially for those of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.
5:9 寡妇记在册上，不可少于六十岁，只作过一个丈夫的妻子，
Let a widow be enrolled, not under sixty years old, having been the wife of one man,
5:10 又有行善的见证，就如养育儿女，接待外人，洗圣徒的脚，救济遭难的人，竭力行各样的善事。
Well attested for good works, if she has brought up children, if she has shown hospitality to strangers, if she has washed the saints' feet, if she has assisted the
afflicted, if she has diligently followed every good work.
5:11 至于年轻的寡妇，就要拒绝；因为她们情欲发动，违背基督的时候，就想要嫁人。
But younger widows refuse; for when they follow their passions in disregard of Christ, they desire to marry,
5:12 她们被判罪，是因废弃了当初的信誓；
And thus have condemnation because they have set aside their first pledge.
5:13 同时她们又习惯懒惰，挨家闲游；不但懒惰，而且说长道短，好管闲事，说些不该说的话。
And at the same time they also learn to be idle, going around from house to house; and they are not only idle but also gossips and busybodies, speaking things
which they ought not.
5:14 所以我愿意年轻的寡妇嫁人，生育儿女，治理家务，不给敌对者有辱骂的机会；
I will therefore that younger widows marry, bear children, keep house, give no opportunity to the opposer for reproach;
5:15 因为有些已经转去随从了撒但。
For already some have turned aside after Satan.
5:16 信主的妇女，若是家中有寡妇，自己就当救济她们，不可累着召会，好使召会能救济那真为寡妇的。
If any believing woman has widows in her family, let her assist them, and let not the church be burdened, that it may assist those who are really widows.
5:17 那善于带领的长老，尤其是那在话语和教导上劳苦的，当被看为配受加倍的敬奉。
Let the elders who take the lead well be counted worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in word and teaching.
5:18 因为经上说，“牛踹谷的时候，不可笼住它的嘴。”又说，“作工的配得工价。”
For the Scripture says, "You shall not muzzle an ox that is treading out the grain,'' and, "The workman is worthy of his pay.''
5:19 对长老的控告，除非凭着两三个见证人，你不要接受。
Against an elder do not receive an accusation, except based upon two or three witnesses.
5:20 犯罪的，当在众人面前责备他，叫其余的也惧怕。
The ones who sin reprove before all that the rest also may have fear.
5:21 我在神和基督耶稣、并蒙拣选的天使面前，郑重的嘱咐你，要遵守这些话，不存成见，行事也无偏心。
I solemnly charge you before God and Christ Jesus and the chosen angels that you keep these things without prejudice, doing nothing by way of partiality.
5:22 给人按手不可急促，不要在别人的罪上有分，要保守自己纯洁。
Lay hands quickly on no man, nor participate in others' sins; keep yourself pure.
5:23 因你胃口不清，屡次患病，再不要照常喝水，要稍微用点酒。
No longer drink water only, but use a little wine for the sake of your stomach and your frequent illnesses.
5:24 有些人的罪是显明的，先去受审判；也有些人的罪是随后跟了去的。
The sins of some men are openly manifest, going before to judgment; and for others, they also follow after.
5:25 照样，善行也有显明的；就是那些不显明的，也不能隐藏。
Likewise also the good works are openly manifest, and those that are otherwise cannot be hidden.
提摩太前书 1 Timothy 第 6 章
6:1 凡在轭下作奴仆的，当以自己的主人为配受十分尊敬的，免得神的名和我们的教训被亵渎。
As many as are slaves under the yoke should regard their own masters as worthy of all honor, lest the name of God and our teaching be blasphemed.
6:2 奴仆若有信主的主人，不可因他们是弟兄就轻看他们，倒要越发服事他们，因为受到你们善良事工之益，而要还报你们的，是相信并蒙爱的。这些事
你要教导人，并劝勉人。
And those who have believing masters should not despise them, because they are brothers; but rather they should serve them, because those who recompense
them for the kindly service received are believers and beloved. These things teach and exhort.
6:3 若有人教导的不同，不赞同健康的话，就是我们主耶稣基督的话，以及那合乎敬虔的教训，
If anyone teaches different things and does not consent to healthy words, those of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the teaching which is according to godliness,
6:4 他是为高傲所蒙蔽，一无所知，却好问难，争辩言辞，由此就生出嫉妒、争竞、毁谤、恶意的猜疑，
He is blinded with pride, understanding nothing, but is diseased with questionings and contentions of words, out of which come envy, strife, slanders, evil
suspicions,
6:5 以及那败坏了心思，以敬虔为得利的门路，而失丧了真理之人无止境的争论。
Perpetual wranglings of men corrupted in mind and deprived of the truth, supposing godliness to be a means of gain.
6:6 然而敬虔又知足，便是大利了；
But godliness with contentment is great gain;
6:7 因为我们没有带什么到世界来，也不能带什么去；
For we have brought nothing into the world, because neither can we carry anything out.
6:8 只要有养生与遮身之物，就当以此为足。
But having food and covering, with these we will be content.
6:9 但那些想要发财的人，就陷在试诱、网罗、和许多无知有害的私欲里，叫人沉溺在败坏和灭亡中。
But those who intend to be rich fall into temptation and a snare and many foolish and harmful desires, which plunge men into destruction and ruin.
6:10 因为贪财是万恶之根，有人贪恋钱财，就受迷惑，离弃了信仰，用许多苦痛把自己刺透了。
For the love of money is a root of all evils, because of which some, aspiring after money, have been led away from the faith and pierced themselves through with
many pains.
6:11 但你这属神的人阿，要逃避这些事，竭力追求公义、敬虔、信、爱、忍耐、温柔。
But you, O man of God, flee these things, and pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, endurance, meekness.
6:12 你要为信仰打那美好的仗，持定永远的生命；你已蒙召进入这永远的生命，也在许多见证人面前，作了美好的承认。
Fight the good fight of the faith; lay hold on the eternal life, to which you were called and have confessed the good confession before many witnesses.
6:13 我在使万物生存的神，并那向本丢彼拉多，作过美好承认之见证的基督耶稣面前嘱咐你，
I charge you before God, who preserves all things in life, and Christ Jesus, who testified the good confession before Pontius Pilate,
6:14 要保守这命令不受玷污，无可指责，直到我们的主耶稣基督显现；
To keep the commandment spotless, without reproach, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ,
6:15 在适当的时期，那可称颂、独有权能的，万王之王，万主之主，
Which in its own times the blessed and only Sovereign will show, the King of those who reign as kings and Lord of those who rule as lords,
6:16 就是那独一不死，住在不能靠近的光中，是人未曾看见，也不能看见的，要将基督这显现显明出来。愿尊贵和永远的权能都归与祂。阿们。
Who alone has immortality, dwelling in unapproachable light, whom no man has seen nor can see, to whom be honor and eternal might. Amen.
6:17 你要嘱咐那些今世富足的人，不要心思高傲，也不要寄望于无定的钱财，只要寄望于那将百物丰富的供给我们享受的神；
Charge those who are rich in the present age not to be high-minded, nor to set their hope on the uncertainty of riches but on God, who affords us all things richly
for our enjoyment;
6:18 又要嘱咐他们行善，在善事上富足，甘心分授，乐意与人同享，
To do good, to be rich in good works, to be ready to distribute, to be ones willing to share;
6:19 为着将来，替自己积存美好的根基作宝藏，叫他们持定那真实的生命。
Laying away for themselves a good foundation as a treasure for the future, that they may lay hold on that which is really life.
6:20 提摩太阿，你要保守所托付你的，避开世俗的空谈，和那些冒称知识的反论；
O Timothy, guard the deposit, turning away from profane, vain babblings and oppositions from what is falsely called knowledge,
6:21 有些人自称有这知识，就在信仰上偏离了目标。愿恩典与你们同在。
Because of which some, professing this, have misaimed regarding the faith. Grace be with you.