11. 列王纪上 1 Kings
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 1 章
1:1 大卫王年纪老迈，虽用衣服遮盖，仍不觉暖。
Now when King David was old and advanced in years, they covered him with clothing, but he could not get warm.
1:2 所以臣仆对他说，不如为我主我王寻找一个年少的处女，使她侍立在王面前，照料王，睡在王的怀中，好叫我主我王得暖。
So his servants said to him, Let a young virgin be sought for my lord the king, and let her wait on the king and serve him; and let her lie in your bosom so that my
lord the king may get warm.
1:3 于是他们在以色列全境寻找美貌的少女，寻得书念女子亚比煞，就带到王那里。
Thus they sought for a beautiful young woman throughout all the territory of Israel, and they found Abishag the Shunammite and brought her to the king.
1:4 这少女极其美貌，她照料王，伺候王，王却没有与她亲近。
And the young woman was very beautiful, and she served the king and ministered to him; but the king did not know her.
1:5 那时，哈及的儿子亚多尼雅高抬自己，说，我必作王；他为自己预备战车、马兵，又派五十人在他前面奔走。
Then Adonijah the son of Haggith exalted himself, saying, I will be king. And he prepared a chariot and horsemen for himself and fifty men to run before him.
1:6 他父亲素来没有使他难过，说，你为什么这样作？他也甚俊美，生在押沙龙之后。
And his father had never displeased him by saying, Why have you done thus and thus? And he also was very handsome, and his mother bore him after Absalom.
1:7 亚多尼雅与洗鲁雅的儿子约押，和祭司亚比亚他商议；二人就跟从他，帮助他。
And he conferred with Joab the son of Zeruiah and with Abiathar the priest; and following Adonijah, they helped him.
1:8 但祭司撒督、耶何耶大的儿子比拿雅、申言者拿单、示每、利以、并大卫的勇士，都不与亚多尼雅在一起。
But Zadok the priest and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada and Nathan the prophet and Shimei and Rei and the mighty men who belonged to David were not with
Adonijah.
1:9 一日，亚多尼雅在隐罗结旁、琐希列石头那里，宰了牛羊、肥畜，请他的诸弟兄，就是王的众子，并所有作王臣仆的犹大人；
And Adonijah sacrificed sheep and oxen and fatlings by the stone of Zoheleth, which is beside En-rogel; and he called all his brothers, the sons of the king, and
all the men of Judah, the servants of the king.
1:10 惟独申言者拿单、比拿雅、并勇士、和他的兄弟所罗门，他都没有请。
But he did not call Nathan the prophet and Benaiah and the mighty men and Solomon his brother.
1:11 拿单对所罗门的母亲拔示巴说，哈及的儿子亚多尼雅作王了，我们的主大卫却不知道；这事你没有听见么？
Then Nathan spoke to Bath-sheba, Solomon's mother, saying, Have you not heard that Adonijah the son of Haggith reigns and our lord David does not know it?
1:12 现在你来，我给你出个主意，好保全你和你儿子所罗门的性命。
Now therefore come and let me give you counsel to save your life and the life of your son Solomon.
1:13 你去，进到大卫王那里，对他说，我主我王阿，你不是曾向婢女起誓说，你儿子所罗门必接续我作王，坐在我的位上么？现在亚多尼雅怎么作了王呢？
Go in at once to King David and say to him, Did you not, my lord O king, swear to your female servant, saying, Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he
shall sit upon my throne? Then why does Adonijah reign?
1:14 你还在那里与王说话的时候，我会随后进去，证实你的话。
Just when you are there and still speaking with the king, I will come in after you and confirm your words.
1:15 于是拔示巴进入内室见王；王甚老迈，书念女子亚比煞正伺候王。
So Bath-sheba went in to the king in the chamber. And the king was very old, and Abishag the Shunammite was ministering to the king.
1:16 拔示巴向王屈身下拜；王说，你要什么？
And Bath-sheba bowed and paid homage to the king. And the king said, What do you wish?
1:17 她说，我主阿，你曾向婢女指着耶和华你的神起誓说，你儿子所罗门必接续我作王，坐在我的位上。
And she said to him, My lord, you swore by Jehovah your God to your female servant, saying, Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my
throne.
1:18 现在亚多尼雅作王了，我主我王你却不知道。
But now, at this moment Adonijah reigns, and you, my lord the king, know nothing of it.
1:19 他宰了许多牛羊、肥畜，请了王的众子和祭司亚比亚他，并元帅约押；惟独王的仆人所罗门，他没有请。
And he has sacrificed oxen and fatlings and sheep abundantly and has called for all the king's sons and for Abiathar the priest and for Joab the captain of the
army, but he has not called for Solomon your servant.
1:20 我主我王阿，以色列众人的眼目都仰望你，等你向他们表明，在我主我王之后谁坐你的位。
And you, my lord the king, the eyes of all Israel are upon you, that you would declare to them who will sit upon the throne of my lord the king after him.
1:21 若不然，到我主我王与列祖同睡时，我和我儿子所罗门必算为罪人了。
Otherwise when my lord the king sleeps with his fathers, I and my son Solomon will be counted as offenders.
1:22 拔示巴还与王说话的时候，申言者拿单进来了。
And just while she was still speaking with the king, Nathan the prophet came in.
1:23 有人奏告王说，申言者拿单来了。拿单进到王前，面伏于地，向王下拜。
And they told the king, saying, Nathan the prophet is here. And he came in before the king and paid homage to the king with his face to the ground.
1:24 拿单说，我主我王果曾说过，亚多尼雅必接续我作王，坐在我的位上么？
And Nathan said, My lord the king, have you said, Adonijah shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne?
1:25 因他今日下去，宰了许多牛羊、肥畜，请了王的众子和军长，并祭司亚比亚他；他们正在亚多尼雅面前吃喝，说，愿亚多尼雅王万岁！
For he has gone down today and sacrificed oxen and fatlings and sheep abundantly and has called for all the king's sons and for the captains of the army and
for Abiathar the priest; and now they are eating and drinking before him, and they say, May King Adonijah live!
1:26 惟独我，就是你的仆人，和祭司撒督，耶何耶大的儿子比拿雅，并你的仆人所罗门，他都没有请。
But he has not called for me, me your servant, and for Zadok the priest and for Benaiah the son of Jehoiada and for Solomon your servant.
1:27 这事果然是出于我主我王么？王却没有告诉仆人们，在我主我王之后谁坐你的位。
Has this thing been done by my lord the king, and you have not made known to your servants who shall sit upon the throne of my lord the king after him?
1:28 大卫王回答说，叫拔示巴来。拔示巴就进到王前，站在王面前。
338
Then King David answered and said, Call Bath-sheba to me. And she came in before the king and stood before the king.
1:29 王起誓说，我指着那救赎我性命脱离一切患难之永活的耶和华起誓，
And the king swore and said, As Jehovah lives, who has redeemed my soul out of all adversity,
1:30 我既然指着耶和华以色列的神向你起誓说，你儿子所罗门必接续我作王，接替我坐在我的位上；我今日就必照这话而行。
Indeed as I have sworn to you by Jehovah the God of Israel, saying, Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne in my place; so
indeed will I do this day.
1:31 于是，拔示巴面伏于地，向王下拜，说，愿我主大卫王万岁！
Then Bath-sheba bowed her face to the ground and paid homage to the king, and she said, May my lord King David live forever.
1:32 大卫王说，将祭司撒督、申言者拿单、耶何耶大的儿子比拿雅召来。他们就来到王面前。
And King David said, Call Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada to me. And they came in before the king.
1:33 王对他们说，要带领你们主的仆人，使我儿子所罗门骑我的骡子，送他下到基训；
And the king said to them, Take the servants of your lord with you, and cause Solomon my son to ride upon my own mule, and bring him down to Gihon.
1:34 在那里，祭司撒督和申言者拿单要膏他作以色列的王；你们也要吹角，说，愿所罗门王万岁！
And let Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet anoint him there as king over Israel; and blow the trumpet and say, May King Solomon live!
1:35 然后要跟随他上来；他要来坐在我的位上，接续我作王；我已立他作以色列和犹大的领袖。
Then come up after him; and he shall come and sit upon my throne, and he shall reign in my place; for I have appointed him as ruler over Israel and over Judah.
1:36 耶何耶大的儿子比拿雅回答王说，阿们！愿耶和华我主我王的神也这样命定。
And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada answered the king and said, Amen! May Jehovah, the God of my lord the king, so ordain!
1:37 耶和华怎样与我主我王同在，愿祂照样与所罗门同在，使他的国位比我主大卫王的国位更大。
As Jehovah has been with my lord the king, so may He be with Solomon; and may He make his throne greater than the throne of my lord King David.
1:38 于是祭司撒督、申言者拿单、耶何耶大的儿子比拿雅、基利提人、和比利提人都下去，使所罗门骑大卫王的骡子，将他送到基训。
So Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada and the Cherethites and the Pelethites went down and caused Solomon to ride
upon King David's mule, and they brought him to Gihon.
1:39 祭司撒督就从耶和华的帐幕中取了盛膏油的角来，膏所罗门。人就吹角，众民都说，愿所罗门王万岁！
And Zadok the priest took the horn of oil from the Tent of Meeting and anointed Solomon; and they blew the trumpet, and all the people said, May King Solomon
live!
1:40 众民跟随他上来，吹着笛，大大欢呼，地因他们的声音就震动。
And all the people went up after him; and the people were playing on pipes and rejoicing with great joy, and the land shook with the sound of them.
1:41 亚多尼雅和所请的众客筵宴方毕，听见这声音；约押听见角声就说，城中为何有这喧嚷的声音呢？
And Adonijah and all the invited guests with him heard it as they finished eating. And Joab heard the sound of the trumpet and said, Why is there the sound of
the city in an uproar?
1:42 他正说话的时候，祭司亚比亚他的儿子约拿单来了。亚多尼雅说，进来罢；你是个忠义的人，必是报好信息。
Just as he was still speaking, Jonathan the son of Abiathar the priest came. And Adonijah said, Come in; for you are a worthy man and bring good news.
1:43 约拿单回答亚多尼雅说，我们的主大卫王诚然立所罗门为王了！
And Jonathan answered and said to Adonijah, Alas! Our lord King David has made Solomon king!
1:44 王差遣祭司撒督、申言者拿单、耶何耶大的儿子比拿雅、基利提人、和比利提人与所罗门同去，他们使所罗门骑王的骡子。
And the king has sent with him Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada and the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and they have
caused him to ride upon the king's mule.
1:45 祭司撒督和申言者拿单，在基训已经膏他作王；众人都从那里欢呼着上来，以致合城震动。这就是你们所听见的声音；
And Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him as king in Gihon; and they have gone up from there rejoicing, so that the city is in an uproar.
This is the sound that you heard.
1:46 并且所罗门已经登了国位。
And Solomon is also sitting upon the throne of the kingdom.
1:47 王的臣仆也来为我们的主大卫王祝福，说，愿你的神使所罗门的名比你的名更尊荣，使他的国位比你的国位更大；王就在床上屈身下拜。
Moreover the king's servants came to bless our lord King David, saying, May your God make the name of Solomon better than your name, and may He make his
throne greater than your throne; and the king bowed himself upon his bed.
1:48 王又这样说，耶和华以色列的神是当受颂赞的，祂赐我一人今日坐在我的位上，我也亲眼看见了。
And thus also did the king say, Blessed be Jehovah the God of Israel, who has given me today one to sit on my throne while my eyes may see it.
1:49 亚多尼雅的众客听见这话就都惊惧，起来四散。
And all the invited guests who were with Adonijah became frightened and rose up; and they went away, each on his own way.
1:50 亚多尼雅惧怕所罗门，就起来，去抓住祭坛的角。
And Adonijah was afraid because of Solomon; and he rose up and went away, and he took hold of the horns of the altar.
1:51 有人告诉所罗门说，看哪，亚多尼雅惧怕所罗门王，现在抓住祭坛的角，说，愿所罗门王今日向我起誓，必不用刀杀仆人。
And it was told Solomon, saying, Now Adonijah is afraid of King Solomon; for he has just now taken hold of the horns of the altar, saying, Let King Solomon swear
to me today that he will not kill his servant with the sword.
1:52 所罗门说，他若作忠义的人，连一根头发也不至落在地上；但他身上若发现有什么恶，就必死亡。
And Solomon said, If he is a worthy man, not a hair of his will fall to the ground; but if wickedness is found in him, he shall die.
1:53 于是所罗门王差遣人，使亚多尼雅从坛上下来。他就来，向所罗门王下拜；所罗门对他说，你回家去罢。
So King Solomon sent men and had him brought down from the altar. And he came and paid homage to King Solomon. And Solomon said to him, Go to your
house.
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 2 章
2:1 大卫的死期临近了，就嘱咐他儿子所罗门说，
When David's time to die drew near, he commanded Solomon his son, saying,
339
2:2 我现在要走全地之人必走的路。所以，你当刚强，作大丈夫，
I am going the way of all the earth. Be strong therefore and be a man;
2:3 谨守耶和华你神所吩咐的，行祂的道路，照着摩西律法上所写的，谨守祂的律例、诫命、典章和法度；好叫你无论作什么事，不拘往何处去，尽都顺
利；
And keep the commandment of Jehovah your God by walking in His ways, by keeping His statutes, His commandments, and His ordinances and His testimonies
as they are written in the law of Moses, that you may prosper in all that you do and wherever you turn;
2:4 好使耶和华坚立祂所说关于我的话说，你的子孙若谨慎自己所行的道路，全心全魂、诚诚实实的行在我面前，就不断有人坐以色列的国位。
That Jehovah may establish His word which He spoke concerning me, saying, If your children take heed to their way by walking before Me in truth with all their
heart and with all their soul, there shall not fail-He said-to be a man upon the throne of Israel for you.
2:5 你也知道洗鲁雅的儿子约押向我所行的，就是他向以色列两个元帅，尼珥的儿子押尼珥和益帖的儿子亚玛撒所行的；他杀了他们，在太平之时流这二
人的血，如在争战之时一样，将这争战的血染了自己腰间的带和脚上的鞋。
Furthermore you know what Joab the son of Zeruiah did to me, by that which he did to the two captains of the armies of Israel, to Abner the son of Ner and to
Amasa the son of Jether, whom he slew; and he shed the blood of war in peace and put the blood of war upon his girdle around his loins and upon his sandals
that are on his feet.
2:6 所以你要照你的智慧行，不让他白头安然下阴间。
Do therefore according to your wisdom, and do not let his gray-haired head go down into Sheol in peace.
2:7 你当以恩慈待基列人巴西莱的众子，使他们列于你席上吃饭的人中；因为我躲避你哥哥押沙龙的时候，他们曾拿食物来迎接我。
And show mercy to the sons of Barzillai the Gileadite, and let them be among those who eat at your table; for so they drew near to me when I fled from Absalom
your brother.
2:8 在你这里有巴户琳的便雅悯人，基拉的儿子示每；我往玛哈念去的那日，他用狠毒的咒诅咒骂我，后来却下约但河迎接我，我就指着耶和华向他起誓
说，我必不用刀杀你。
And now there is with you Shimei the son of Gera, the Benjaminite of Bahurim, who cursed me with a terrible curse on the day I went to Mahanaim; but he came
down to meet me at the Jordan, and I swore to him by Jehovah, saying, I shall not kill you with the sword.
2:9 现在你不要以他为无罪；你是有智慧的人，必知道怎样待他，使他白头见杀，流血下到阴间。
Now therefore do not hold him guiltless; for you are a wise man, and you will know what to do to him. And you shall bring his gray-haired head down into Sheol
with blood.
2:10 大卫与他列祖同睡，葬在大卫城。
And David slept with his fathers, and he was buried in the city of David.
2:11 大卫作以色列王四十年：在希伯仑作王七年，在耶路撒冷作王三十三年。
And the time that David reigned over Israel was forty years: in Hebron he reigned seven years, and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty-three years.
2:12 所罗门坐他父亲大卫的位，他的国甚是坚固。
And Solomon sat upon the throne of David his father, and his kingdom was firmly established.
2:13 哈及的儿子亚多尼雅来见所罗门的母亲拔示巴，拔示巴说，你是为平安来的么？他说，是为平安；
Then Adonijah the son of Haggith came to Bath-sheba the mother of Solomon. And she said, Do you come peaceably? And he said, Peaceably.
2:14 又说，我有话对你说。拔示巴说，你说罢。
Then he said, I have something to say to you. And she said, Speak.
2:15 亚多尼雅说，你知道国原是归我的，全以色列也都仰望我作王；不料，国反归了我的弟弟，因他得国是出于耶和华。
And he said, You know that the kingdom was mine and that all Israel looked to me to reign; but the kingdom has turned and has become my brother's, for it was
of Jehovah to be his.
2:16 现在我有一件事求你，请不要推辞。拔示巴说，你说罢。
Now therefore I ask one thing of you; do not refuse me. And she said to him, Speak.
2:17 他说，求你对所罗门王题说，将书念女子亚比煞赐我为妻，因他必不推辞你。
And he said, Please tell Solomon the king-for he will not refuse you-to give me Abishag the Shunammite as my wife.
2:18 拔示巴说，好，我必为你对王题说。
And Bath-sheba said, Fine; I will speak to the king for you.
2:19 于是，拔示巴去见所罗门王，要为亚多尼雅向他题说；王起来迎接，向她下拜，就坐在位上，并给王母设一座位，她便坐在王的右边。
So Bath-sheba went to King Solomon to speak to him for Adonijah. And the king rose up to meet her and bowed himself before her; and he sat on his throne
and had a throne set for the king's mother, and she sat at his right hand.
2:20 拔示巴说，我有一件小事求你，请不要推辞。
And she said, Let me ask one small thing of you; do not refuse me. And the king said to her, Ask, my mother, for I will not refuse you.
2:21 王说，请母亲说，我必不推辞。拔示巴说，请将书念女子亚比煞赐给你哥哥亚多尼雅为妻。
And she said, Let Abishag the Shunammite be given to Adonijah your brother as his wife.
2:22 所罗门王回答他母亲说，为何替亚多尼雅求书念女子亚比煞呢？你可以为他求国，因为他是我的哥哥；可以为他，并为祭司亚比亚他和洗鲁雅的儿子
约押求。
And King Solomon answered and said to his mother, And why do you ask Abishag the Shunammite for Adonijah? Ask for him the kingdom also, since he is my
older brother, indeed for him and for Abiathar the priest and for Joab the son of Zeruiah.
2:23 所罗门王就指着耶和华起誓说，亚多尼雅说这话是自己送命，不然，愿神重重的降罚与我。
Then King Solomon swore by Jehovah saying, God do so to me, and even more, if Adonijah has not spoken this word against his own life.
2:24 耶和华坚立我，使我坐在我父亲大卫的位上，并照着祂所应许的，为我建立家室；现在我指着永活的耶和华起誓，亚多尼雅今日必被处死。
Now therefore as Jehovah lives, who has established me and seated me on the throne of David my father, and who has made me a house as He has promised,
surely Adonijah shall be put to death today.
2:25 于是所罗门王差遣耶何耶大的儿子比拿雅，下手击杀亚多尼雅，他就死了。
So King Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and he struck him down so that he died.
2:26 王对祭司亚比亚他说，你往亚拿突，到自己的田地去罢；你本是该死的，但因你在我父亲大卫面前抬过主耶和华的约柜，又在我父亲所受的一切苦难
中与他同受苦难，所以我今日不将你杀死。
340
And to Abiathar the priest, the king said, Go to Anathoth, to your own fields, for you are worthy of death; but I will not kill you at this time, for you bore the Ark of
the Lord Jehovah before David my father and you suffered affliction in all that my father suffered.
2:27 所罗门就革除亚比亚他，不许他作耶和华的祭司；这便应验了耶和华在示罗论以利家所说的话。
So Solomon thrust Abiathar out from being a priest to Jehovah, fulfilling the word of Jehovah which He had spoken concerning the house of Eli in Shiloh.
2:28 约押虽然没有归从押沙龙，却归从了亚多尼雅。这风声传到约押那里，他就逃到耶和华的帐幕，抓住祭坛的角。
And the report came to Joab, for Joab had followed after Adonijah, though he had not followed after Absalom. And Joab fled into the Tent of Jehovah, and he
took hold of the horns of the altar.
2:29 有人告诉所罗门王说，约押逃到耶和华的帐幕，现今在祭坛的旁边；所罗门就差遣耶何耶大的儿子比拿雅，说，你去将他杀死。
And when it was told King Solomon that Joab had fled into the Tent of Jehovah and that he was just then beside the altar, Solomon sent Benaiah the son of
Jehoiada, saying, Go and strike him down.
2:30 比拿雅来到耶和华的帐幕，对约押说，王这样说，你出来罢。他说，我不出去，我要死在这里。比拿雅就回话给王说，约押如此说，如此回答我。
And Benaiah came to the Tent of Jehovah and said to him, Thus says the king, Come out. And he said, No; rather I will die here. Then Benaiah brought word to
the king again, saying, Thus has Joab said, and thus has he answered me.
2:31 王说，你照着他所说的而行，杀死他，将他葬埋，好将约押无故流人血的罪，从我和我的父家除去。
And the king said to him, Do as he has spoken, and strike him down and bury him, that you may remove the blood which Joab has shed without cause from me
and from my father's house.
2:32 耶和华必将约押流人血的罪，报应在他自己的头上；因为他击杀两个比他又义又好的人，就是以色列的元帅，尼珥的儿子押尼珥，和犹大的元帅，益
帖的儿子亚玛撒，用刀杀了他们，我父亲大卫却不知道。
And Jehovah will return his blood upon his head because he struck down two men more righteous and better than himself and slew them with the sword, though
my father David did not know of it, that is, Abner the son of Ner, the captain of the army of Israel, and Amasa the son of Jether, the captain of the army of Judah.
2:33 故此，流这二人血的罪必报应在约押和他后裔的头上，直到永远；
So their blood shall return upon Joab's head and upon his seed's head forever, but to David and to his seed and to his house and to his throne there shall be
peace forever from Jehovah.
2:34 惟有大卫和他的后裔，并他的家与国位，必从耶和华那里得平安，直到永远。于是耶何耶大的儿子比拿雅上去，击杀约押，将他杀死，葬在旷野约押
自己的宅地里。
And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada went up and struck him down and killed him, and he was buried at his own house in the wilderness.
2:35 王就立耶何耶大的儿子比拿雅统领军队，代替约押，又使祭司撒督代替亚比亚他。
And the king put Benaiah the son of Jehoiada in his place over the army, and the king put Zadok the priest in Abiathar's place.
2:36 王差遣人将示每召来，对他说，你要在耶路撒冷为自己建造房屋居住，不可出来往别处去。
Then the king sent word and called for Shimei. And he said to him, Build yourself a house in Jerusalem, and dwell there; and you shall not go forth from there to
any place whatever.
2:37 你当确实的知道，你何日出来过汲沦溪，何日必死；流你血的罪必归到你自己的头上。
For on the day that you go forth and cross over the brook Kidron, know for certain that you shall surely die; your blood will be upon your own head.
2:38 示每对王说，这话甚好；我主我王怎样说，仆人必怎样行。于是示每多日住在耶路撒冷。
And Shimei said to the king, This word is good; as my lord the king has said, so will your servant do. So Shimei dwelt in Jerusalem many days.
2:39 过了三年，示每的两个仆人逃到迦特王玛迦的儿子亚吉那里去；有人告诉示每说，看哪，你的仆人在迦特。
Then at the end of three years two of Shimei's servants ran off to Achish the son of Maacah, the king of Gath; and they told Shimei, saying, Your servants are now
in Gath.
2:40 于是示每起来，备上驴，往迦特到亚吉那里去找他的仆人。示每去了，就从迦特带他仆人回来。
So Shimei rose up and saddled his donkey and went to Gath, unto Achish, to seek his servants. And Shimei went and brought his servants from Gath.
2:41 有人告诉所罗门说，示每离开耶路撒冷往迦特去，已经回来了。
And it was told Solomon that Shimei had gone from Jerusalem to Gath and had returned.
2:42 王就差遣人将示每召了来，对他说，我岂不是叫你指着耶和华起誓，并且郑重的警戒你说，你当确实的知道，你那日出来往别处去，那日必死么？你
也对我说，这话甚好，我必听从。
So the king sent word and called for Shimei; and he said to him, Did I not make you swear by Jehovah and solemnly warn you, saying, On the day that you go
forth and travel to any place whatever, know for certain that you shall surely die? And you said to me, This word that I have heard is good.
2:43 现在你为何不谨守你指着耶和华起的誓，和我所吩咐你的命令呢？
Why then have you not kept the oath of Jehovah and the commandment that I charged you with?
2:44 王又对示每说，你向我父亲大卫所行的一切恶事，你自己心里也知道，耶和华必把你的恶报应在你自己头上；
And the king said to Shimei, You yourself know all the evil, which your heart is conscious of, that you did to David my father; and Jehovah will return your evil upon
your own head.
2:45 惟有所罗门王必得福，并且大卫的国位必在耶和华面前坚定，直到永远。
But King Solomon will be blessed, and the throne of David will be established before Jehovah forever.
2:46 于是王吩咐耶何耶大的儿子比拿雅，他去击杀示每，示每就死了。这样，国便在所罗门的手中得坚定。
So the king gave commands to Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and he went out and struck him down so that he died. And the kingdom was established in the
hand of Solomon.
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 3 章
3:1 所罗门与埃及王法老结亲，娶了法老的女儿为妻，接她进入大卫城，直等到造完了自己的宫和耶和华的殿，并耶路撒冷周围的城墙。
And Solomon allied himself by marriage with Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and he took Pharaoh's daughter and brought her to the city of David until he completed
the building of his house and the house of Jehovah and the wall of Jerusalem all around.
3:2 当那些日子，百姓仍在邱坛献祭，因为还没有为耶和华的名建殿。
The people however were sacrificing in the high places, for there had still not been built a house for the name of Jehovah up to those days.
3:3 所罗门爱耶和华，遵行他父亲大卫的律例，只是仍在邱坛献祭烧香。
341
And Solomon loved Jehovah, walking in the statutes of David his father; however he sacrificed and burned incense in the high places.
3:4 所罗门王到基遍去献祭，因为那里有极大的邱坛；他在那坛上献一千燔祭牲。
And the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there, for that was the great high place; a thousand burnt offerings did Solomon offer on that altar.
3:5 在基遍，夜间梦中，耶和华向所罗门显现；神说，我当赐给你什么？你可以求。
In Gibeon Jehovah appeared to Solomon in a dream at night; and God said, Ask what I should give you.
3:6 所罗门说，你仆人我父亲大卫用诚实、公义、和对你正直的心，行在你面前，你就按着他所行的，向他大施恩慈，又为他存留这大恩慈，赐他一个儿
子坐在他的位上，正如今日一样。
And Solomon said, You have shown great lovingkindness to Your servant David my father, because he walked before You in truth and righteousness and in
uprightness of heart with You; and You have kept for him this great lovingkindness and have given him a son to sit upon his throne, as it is this day.
3:7 耶和华我的神阿，如今你使仆人接续我父亲大卫作王；但我是幼童，不知道怎样出入。
And now, O Jehovah my God, You have made Your servant king in the place of David my father, though I am a little child; I do not know how to go out or come in.
3:8 仆人住在你所拣选的民中，这民多得无法数点，无法计算。
And Your servant is in the midst of Your people, whom You have chosen, a vast people that cannot be numbered or counted for multitude.
3:9 所以求你赐仆人聪明的心，可以审断你的民，能辨别善恶。不然，谁能审断你这众多的民呢？
Give therefore to Your servant an understanding heart to judge Your people and to discern between good and evil. For who is able to judge this great people of
Yours?
3:10 所罗门求这事，他的话在主眼中看为美。
And this word seemed good in the sight of the Lord, that Solomon had asked for this matter.
3:11 神对他说，你既然求这事，不为自己求长寿、求财富，也不求灭绝你仇敌的性命，单为自己求辨识可以听讼，
And God said to him, Because you have asked for this matter and have not asked for long life for yourself and have not asked for riches for yourself and have not
asked for the life of your enemies, but have asked for discernment for yourself to understand justice;
3:12 我就照你的话而行。看哪，我赐你智慧和明辨的心，甚至在你以前没有像你的，
I now do according to your words. I now give you a heart of wisdom and understanding, so that there has been no one like you before you, nor will one rise up
after you like you.
3:13 在你以后也没有兴起来像你的。你所没有求的，我也赐给你，就是财富、荣耀，使你在世的一切日子，列王中没有一个能比你的。
And I also give you that for which you did not ask, both riches and glory, so that there will be no one among kings like you all your days.
3:14 你若行我的道路，谨守我的律例和诫命，正如你父亲大卫所行的，我必使你长寿。
And if you walk in My ways, keeping My statutes and My commandments, as David your father walked, I will extend your days.
3:15 所罗门醒了，不料是个梦。他就到耶路撒冷去，站在耶和华的约柜前，献燔祭和平安祭，又为他的众臣仆设摆筵席。
Then Solomon awoke, and behold, it was a dream. And he went to Jerusalem and stood before the Ark of the Covenant of Jehovah, and he offered up burnt
offerings and offered peace offerings and made a feast for all his servants.
3:16 一日，有两个妓女来见王，站在他面前。
At that time two harlots came to the king and stood before him.
3:17 一个妇人说，我主阿，我和这妇人同住一房；她在房中的时候，我生了一个孩子。
And the one woman said, Oh, my lord, I and this woman dwell in one house, and I gave birth while she was in the house.
3:18 我生孩子后第三日，这妇人也生了孩子。我们是同住的，除了我们二人之外，房中再没有外人与我们在一起。
And on the third day after I gave birth, this woman also gave birth. And we were together; there was no stranger with us in the house; only we two were in the
house.
3:19 夜间，这妇人睡着的时候，压在她的儿子身上，儿子就死了。
And this woman's son died during the night, because she lay on him.
3:20 她半夜起来，趁婢女睡着，从我旁边把我的儿子抱去，放在她怀里，又把她那死了的儿子放在我怀里。
So she rose up in the middle of the night and took my son from beside me while your female servant was sleeping and laid him in her bosom, and her dead son
she laid in my bosom.
3:21 早晨我起来要给我的儿子吃奶，不料，他死了；但我早晨细细的察看，那不是我所生的儿子。
Then when I rose up in the morning to nurse my son, there he was, dead. But when I examined him in the morning, that was not my son whom I had given birth
to.
3:22 那妇人说，不然，活的是我的儿子，死的是你的儿子。这妇人说，不然，死的是你的儿子，活的是我的儿子。她们就在王面前如此争论。
And the other woman said, No! The live one is my son, and the dead one is your son. And the first said, No! The dead one is your son, and the live one is my son.
And they went on arguing like this before the king.
3:23 王说，这妇人说活的是我的儿子，死的是你的儿子；那妇人说不然，死的是你的儿子，活的是我的儿子。
Then the king said, This one says, This is my son, the live one, and the dead one is your son; and that one says, No! The dead one is your son, and the live one is
my son.
3:24 就吩咐说，给我拿刀来。人就把刀拿到王面前。
And the king said, Get me a sword. And they brought a sword before the king.
3:25 王说，将活孩子劈成两半，一半给这个妇人，一半给那个妇人。
And the king said, Divide the live child between the two, and give half to one and half to the other.
3:26 儿子还活着的那妇人，因怜恤自己的儿子，心急如焚，就对王说，我主阿，将活孩子给那妇人罢，绝不可杀他！那妇人却说，这孩子也不归我，也不
归你，把他劈了罢！
And the woman whose son was the live one said to the king (for her compassions for her son burned within), Oh, my lord, give the live child to her, and do not by
any means kill him! But the other said, He shall neither be mine nor yours; divide him.
3:27 王回答说，将活孩子给这妇人，绝不可杀他；这妇人实在是他的母亲。
And the king answered and said, Give her the live child, and do not by any means kill him; she is his mother.
3:28 全以色列听见王所作的判断，就都敬畏他；因为见他里面有神的智慧，能施行公理。
And all Israel heard of the judgment that the king had exercised, and they feared the king; for they saw that the wisdom of God was within him to execute justice.
342
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 4 章
4:1 所罗门王作全以色列的王。
Now King Solomon was king over all Israel.
4:2 他的大臣记在下面：撒督的儿子亚撒利雅作祭司，
And these were the officials with him: Azariah the son of Zadok, the priest;
4:3 示沙的两个儿子以利何烈、亚希亚作书记，亚希律的儿子约沙法作记事官，
Elihoreph and Ahijah, the sons of Shisha, scribes; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud, the recorder;
4:4 耶何耶大的儿子比拿雅统领军队，撒督和亚比亚他作大祭司，
And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the army; and Zadok and Abiathar were high priests;
4:5 拿单的儿子亚撒利雅监管众官吏，拿单的儿子撒布得作领袖，作王的朋友，
And Azariah the son of Nathan was over the superintendents; and Zabud the son of Nathan was the principal officer, the king's friend;
4:6 亚希煞作家宰，亚比大的儿子亚多尼兰掌管服苦役的人。
And Ahishar was over the household; and Adoniram the son of Abda was over the forced labor.
4:7 所罗门在全以色列立了十二个官吏；他们供给王和王家的食物，每年各人必须供给一个月。
And Solomon had twelve superintendents over all Israel, who provided food for the king and his house; each month of the year one had to provide food.
4:8 他们的名字记在下面：在以法莲山地有便户珥；
And these are their names: Ben-hur, in the hill country of Ephraim;
4:9 在玛迦斯、沙宾、伯示麦、以伦伯哈南有便底甲；
Ben-deker, in Makaz and in Shaalbim and Beth-shemesh and Elon-beth-hanan;
4:10 在亚鲁泊有便希悉，属他管理的有梭哥和希弗全地；
Ben-hesed, in Arubboth (to him pertained Socoh and all the land of Hepher);
4:11 在多珥全高地有便亚比拿达，他娶了所罗门的女儿他法为妻；
Ben-abinadab, in all the highland of Dor (he had Taphath the daughter of Solomon as his wife);
4:12 在他纳和米吉多，并靠近撒拉他拿、耶斯列下边的全伯善，从伯善到亚伯米何拉，直到约念之外，有亚希律的儿子巴拿；
Baana the son of Ahilud, in Taanach and Megiddo and all Beth-shean, which is beside Zarethan, beneath Jezreel, from Beth-shean to Abel-meholah, as far as
beyond Jokmeam;
4:13 在基列的拉末有便基别，属他管理的有在基列的玛拿西子孙睚珥的村落，以及巴珊的亚珥歌伯全境，有大城六十座，都有城墙和铜闩；
Ben-geber, in Ramoth-gilead (to him pertained the villages of Jair the son of Manasseh, which are in Gilead; and to him pertained the region of Argob, which is
in Bashan, sixty great cities with walls and bronze bars);
4:14 在玛哈念有易多的儿子亚希拿达；
Ahinadab the son of Iddo, in Mahanaim;
4:15 在拿弗他利有亚希玛斯，他也娶了所罗门的一个女儿巴实抹为妻；
Ahimaaz, in Naphtali (he also took Basemath the daughter of Solomon as his wife);
4:16 在亚设和比亚禄有户筛的儿子巴拿；
Baana the son of Hushai, in Asher and Bealoth;
4:17 在以萨迦有帕路亚的儿子约沙法；
Jehoshaphat the son of Paruah, in Issachar;
4:18 在便雅悯有以拉的儿子示每；
Shimei the son of Ela, in Benjamin;
4:19 在基列地，就是从前属亚摩利人的王西宏和巴珊王噩之地，有乌利的儿子基别，那地只有一个官吏。
Geber the son of Uri, in the land of Gilead, the land of Sihon the king of the Amorites and Og the king of Bashan (and there was only one superintendent in that
land).
4:20 犹大人和以色列人众多，如同海边的沙那样多，都吃喝快乐。
Judah and Israel were as numerous as the sand that is by the sea in multitude, eating and drinking and rejoicing.
4:21 所罗门统管诸国，从大河到非利士人之地，直到埃及的边界；所罗门在世的一切日子，这些国都进贡服事他。
And Solomon ruled over all the kingdoms from the River to the land of the Philistines and unto the border of Egypt; they brought tribute and served Solomon all the
days of his life.
4:22 所罗门每日所用的食物有细面三十歌珥，粗面六十歌珥，
And Solomon's provisions for one day were thirty cors of fine flour and sixty cors of meal,
4:23 肥牛十只，草场的牛二十只，羊一百只，还有鹿、羚羊、麃子和肥禽。
Ten fattened oxen and twenty pastured oxen and a hundred sheep, besides deer and gazelles and roebucks and fattened fowl.
4:24 所罗门管理大河西边，从提弗萨直到迦萨的全地，管理大河西边的诸王；他的四境尽都平安。
For he had dominion over all the area west of the River, from Tiphsah to Gaza, over all the kings west of the River; and he had peace on all sides around him.
4:25 所罗门在世的一切日子，从但到别是巴的犹大人和以色列人，都在自己的葡萄树下和无花果树下安然居住。
And Judah and Israel dwelt securely, every man under his vine and under his fig tree, from Dan to Beer-sheba, throughout all Solomon's days.
4:26 所罗门有套车的马四万厩，还有马兵一万二千。
And Solomon had forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots and twelve thousand horsemen.
4:27 那十二个官吏各按各月供给所罗门王，并一切前来与所罗门王同席之人的食物，一无所缺。
And those superintendents provided food for King Solomon and for all who came to King Solomon's table, each in his month; they left nothing lacking.
4:28 他们也各按各分，将养马与快马的大麦和干草，送到该送的地方。
And they also brought to the place where it should be, barley and straw for the horses and steeds, each according to his charge.
4:29 神赐给所罗门智慧、极大的聪明、和宽广的心，如同海边的沙那样不可测量。
And God gave Solomon wisdom and very much understanding and largeness of heart, even as the sand that is on the seashore.
4:30 所罗门的智慧超过一切东方人的智慧，和埃及人的一切智慧。
And Solomon's wisdom was greater than the wisdom of all the children of the east and all the wisdom of Egypt.
343
4:31 他比万人更有智慧，比以斯拉人以探，并玛曷的儿子希幔、甲各、达大更有智慧。他的名声传扬在四围的列国。
For he became wiser than all men, wiser than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, and Calcol and Darda, the sons of Mahol. And his fame was among all the
surrounding nations.
4:32 他说过箴言三千句，他的诗歌有一千零五首。
And he spoke three thousand proverbs, and his songs numbered a thousand and five.
4:33 他讲论草木，自利巴嫩的香柏树直到墙上长出的牛膝草，又讲论走兽、飞鸟、爬物和鱼。
And he discoursed about trees, from the cedar that is in Lebanon to the hyssop that shoots forth out of the wall; he also discoursed about animals and about
birds and about creeping things and about fish.
4:34 从万民中，从地上一切听见所罗门智慧的君王那里，都有人来听他的智慧话。
And they came from all the peoples to hear the wisdom of Solomon, from all the kings of the earth who had heard of his wisdom.
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 5 章
5:1 推罗王希兰，平素爱大卫；他听见以色列人膏所罗门，接续他父亲作王，就差遣臣仆来见他。
Now Hiram the king of Tyre sent his servants to Solomon when he heard that they had anointed him king in place of his father, for Hiram had always loved David.
5:2 所罗门也差遣人去见希兰，说，
And Solomon sent word to Hiram, saying,
5:3 你知道我父亲大卫因四围的争战，不能为耶和华他神的名建殿，直等到耶和华使仇敌都服在他脚下。
You know about David my father that he was not able to build a house for the name of Jehovah his God because of the warfare that his enemies surrounded him
with, until Jehovah put them under the soles of his feet.
5:4 现在耶和华我的神使我四围得安息，没有对头，没有灾祸。
But now Jehovah my God has given me rest all around; there is no adversary or evil occurrence.
5:5 看哪，我有意为耶和华我神的名建殿， 是照耶和华对我父亲大卫所说的，说，你的儿子，就是我所要设立，
And now I intend to build a house for the name of Jehovah my God according to what Jehovah spoke to David my father, saying, Your son, whom I will put on
your throne in your place, he will build the house for My name.
5:6 接续你坐在你位上的，他必为我的名建殿。所以求你吩咐人从利巴嫩为我砍伐香柏木，我的仆人必与你的仆人一同作工，我必照你所说定的，把你仆
人的工价给你；因为你知道，在我们中间没有人像西顿人那样善于砍伐树木。
Now therefore command that they cut for me cedars from Lebanon. And my servants will be with your servants, and I will give you payment for your servants,
according to whatever you say; for you know that among us there is no one who knows how to cut timber like the Sidonians.
5:7 希兰听见所罗门的话，就甚欢喜，说，今日耶和华当受颂赞；祂赐给大卫一个有智慧的儿子，治理这众多的民。
And when Hiram heard Solomon's words, he rejoiced greatly and said, Blessed be Jehovah this day, who has given David a wise son over this great people.
5:8 希兰打发人去见所罗门，说，你差遣人向我所题的事，我听见了；关于香柏木和松木，凡你所愿的我都必成全。
And Hiram sent word to Solomon, saying, I have heard the message which you have sent me. I will do all your desire concerning cedar timber and cypress timber.
5:9 我的仆人必将木料从利巴嫩运下海里；我把这些木料扎成筏子，浮海运到你所指定我的地方，在那里拆开，你就可以收取。你也要成全我所愿的，将
食物给我的家。
My servants will bring down from Lebanon to the sea, and I will make them into rafts by sea to the place that you direct me; and I will break them apart there,
and you can carry off. And you can fulfill my desire by giving food to my household.
5:10 于是希兰照着所罗门所愿的一切，给他香柏木和松木。
So Hiram gave Solomon cedar timber and cypress timber, all that he desired.
5:11 所罗门给希兰麦子二万歌珥，最上等的油二十歌珥，作他家的食物；所罗门每年都是这样给希兰。
And Solomon gave Hiram twenty thousand cors of wheat as food for his household and twenty cors of the finest oil; this did Solomon give to Hiram year by year.
5:12 耶和华照着所应许的赐智慧给所罗门；希兰与所罗门和好，二人彼此立约。
And Jehovah gave Solomon wisdom, as He had promised him; and there was peace between Hiram and Solomon, and the two of them made a treaty.
5:13 所罗门王从全以色列人中征召服苦役的，共有三万人，
And King Solomon levied forced labor out of all Israel, and the forced labor amounted to thirty thousand men.
5:14 派他们轮流，每月一万人到利巴嫩去；一个月在利巴嫩，两个月在家里。亚多尼兰掌管这些服苦役的人。
And he sent them to Lebanon, ten thousand a month by courses: one month they were in Lebanon, and two months they were at home. And Adoniram was over
the forced labor.
5:15 所罗门有七万扛抬重物的，八万在山上凿石头的；
And Solomon had seventy thousand burden bearers and eighty thousand stonecutters in the mountains,
5:16 此外，所罗门有三千三百督工的官长，监管作工的百姓。
Besides Solomon's three thousand three hundred chief officers over the work, who directed the people who did the work.
5:17 王下令，人就开采出又大又宝贵的石头来，用凿成的石头立殿的根基。
And the king commanded, and they quarried great stones, costly stones, in order to lay the foundation of the house with hewn stone.
5:18 所罗门的匠人和希兰的匠人，并迦巴勒人，将石头凿好，预备木料和石头建殿。
And Solomon's builders and Hiram's builders and the Gebalites fashioned the stone and prepared the timber and the stones in order to build the house.
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 6 章
6:1 以色列人出埃及地后四百八十年，所罗门作以色列王第四年西弗月，就是二月，开工建造耶和华的殿。
Then in the four hundred eightieth year after the children of Israel had come forth out of the land of Egypt, in the fourth year of his reign over Israel, in the month of
Ziv (this is the second month), Solomon began to build the house of Jehovah.
6:2 所罗门王为耶和华所建的殿，长六十肘，宽二十肘，高三十肘。
And the house which King Solomon built to Jehovah was sixty cubits long and twenty cubits wide and thirty cubits high.
344
6:3 圣殿的外殿前有廊子，长二十肘，与殿的宽度一样，阔十肘，在殿的前面。
And the portico that was before the temple of the house was twenty cubits long, across the width of the house, and ten cubits deep, in front of the house.
6:4 他为殿作了有固定窗棂的窗户。
And for the house he made windows with fixed lattices.
6:5 靠着殿墙，围着外殿内殿的墙，建了四围的楼房；这样，就造了四围的旁屋。
And against the wall of the house he built a structure with stories all around, next to the walls of the house all around the temple and the innermost sanctuary;
and he made side chambers all around.
6:6 楼房下层宽五肘，中层宽六肘，第三层宽七肘；因殿的外墙四围留有墙坎，免得梁木插入殿墙。
The lowest story was five cubits wide; and the middle, six cubits wide; and the third, seven cubits wide; for he provided for outsets to the house all around the
outside, so that the beams would not be inserted into the walls of the house.
6:7 建殿是用采石场预备好的石头，所以建殿的时候，在殿里听不见锤子、斧子、或任何铁器的响声。
And the house, when it was being built, was built of finished stone, cut at the quarry, so that neither hammer nor ax nor any iron tool was heard in the house
when it was being built.
6:8 当中旁屋的门口在殿右边，门内有旋螺的楼梯，可以上到中层，从中层可以上到第三层。
The door of the middle side chamber was on the right side of the house; and they went up by winding stairs into the middle story, and from the middle into the
third.
6:9 所罗门建殿，并且建造完成；他用香柏木作栋梁，又用香柏木板遮盖。
So he built the house and finished it, and he covered the house with beams and planks of cedar.
6:10 靠着全殿所造的楼房，每层高五肘，用香柏木料与殿连接。
And he built the stories against all the house, five cubits high; and the structure was held to the house by cedar timbers.
6:11 耶和华的话临到所罗门说，
Then the word of Jehovah came to Solomon, saying,
6:12 论到你所建的这殿，你若遵行我的律例，履行我的典章，谨守我的一切诫命，行在其中，我必向你实现我对你父亲大卫所说的话；
As for this house that you are building, if you walk in My statutes and execute My ordinances and keep all My commandments by walking in them, then I will
establish My word with you, which I spoke to David your father;
6:13 我必住在以色列人中间，并不丢弃我民以色列。
And I will dwell in the midst of the children of Israel, and I will not forsake My people Israel.
6:14 所罗门建造殿宇，并且建造完成。
So Solomon built the house and finished it.
6:15 他用香柏木板造殿内的墙，从地到顶都贴上木板，
And he built the walls of the house within with cedar boards; from the floor of the house to the wall of the ceiling he covered them on the inside with wood. And
he overlaid the floor of the house with boards of cypress.
6:16 殿的地面都铺上松木板。他又把殿后部的二十肘，从地到顶都用香柏木板遮蔽，建造为内殿，就是至圣所。
And he built twenty cubits of the rear part of the house with cedar boards from the floor to the walls of the ceiling; and he built it within as an innermost sanctuary,
as the Holy of Holies.
6:17 至圣所前有外殿，这殿长四十肘。
And the house, that is, the temple before the Holy of Holies, was forty cubits long.
6:18 殿里铺的香柏木刻着野瓜和初开的花；殿里一概铺了香柏木，一点石头都不显露。
And there was cedar on the house within, carved with gourds and open flowers. It was all cedar; there was no stone showing.
6:19 他在殿里预备了内殿，好将耶和华的约柜安放在那里。
And he prepared an innermost sanctuary in the midst of the house within, in order to put the Ark of the Covenant of Jehovah there.
6:20 内殿里面长二十肘，宽二十肘，高二十肘，都贴上纯金；
And the interior of the innermost sanctuary was twenty cubits long and twenty cubits wide and twenty cubits high; and he overlaid it with pure gold, and he
overlaid the altar with cedar.
6:21 又将香柏木作的坛包上纯金。所罗门用纯金贴了殿里面；又把金链子横挂在内殿前，内殿都贴上金子。
And Solomon overlaid the house within with pure gold; and he drew gold chains before the innermost sanctuary, and overlaid it with gold.
6:22 全殿贴上金子，直到都贴了；属于内殿的坛，整个都用金子包裹。
So he overlaid all the house with gold, until all the house was complete; and the whole altar, which belonged to the innermost sanctuary, he overlaid with gold.
6:23 他用橄榄木作两个基路伯，各高十肘，安在内殿。
And in the innermost sanctuary he made two cherubim of olive wood, ten cubits high.
6:24 基路伯的一个翅膀长五肘，第二个翅膀也长五肘；从这翅膀尖到那翅膀尖共有十肘。
And the one wing of the cherub was five cubits, and the second wing of the cherub was five cubits; ten cubits from the end of its one wing to the end of its other
wing.
6:25 第二个基路伯的两个翅膀也是十肘；两个基路伯的尺寸、形像都是一样。
And the second cherub was ten cubits; both cherubim had one measure and one shape.
6:26 第一个基路伯高十肘，第二个基路伯也是如此。
The height of the one cherub was ten cubits, and so was that of the second cherub.
6:27 他将两个基路伯安在内殿中间；基路伯的翅膀是张开的，这基路伯的一个翅膀触着这边的墙，第二个基路伯的一个翅膀触着那边的墙，里边的两个翅
膀在殿中间彼此相触。
And he put the cherubim in the midst of the inner house. And the wings of the cherubim were spread out so that the wing of the one cherub was touching the
wall and the wing of the second cherub was touching the second wall; and their other wings were touching at the middle of the house, wing to wing.
6:28 又用金子包裹二基路伯。
And he overlaid the cherubim with gold.
6:29 殿周围所有的墙上刻着基路伯、棕树、和初开的花，内殿、外殿都是如此。
And he carved all the walls of the house all around with engraved carvings of cherubim and palm trees and open flowers, in both the inner chamber and the
outer one.
345
6:30 殿的地板贴上金子，内殿、外殿都是如此。
And the floor of the house he overlaid with gold, in both the inner chamber and the outer one.
6:31 又用橄榄木制造内殿入口的门；门楣、门框有墙宽的五分之一。
And for the entrance of the innermost sanctuary he made doors of olive wood; the lintel and doorposts were a fifth of the breadth of the wall.
6:32 在橄榄木作的两扇门上，刻着基路伯、棕树、和初开的花，都贴上金子，
And there were two doors of olive wood. And he carved carvings of cherubim and palm trees and open flowers upon them, and he overlaid them with gold and
spread the gold upon the cherubim and the palm trees.
6:33 基路伯和棕树都打上金子。又照样用橄榄木制造外殿入口的门框，有墙宽的四分之一。
So also he made for the entrance of the temple doorposts of olive wood, out of a fourth of the breadth of the wall,
6:34 用松木作门两扇；第一扇门分两页，是摺叠的；第二扇门分两页，也是摺叠的。
And two doors of cypress wood; the two leaves of the one door folded, and the two leaves of the second door folded.
6:35 门上面刻着基路伯、棕树、和初开的花，都用金子贴了，均匀的贴在雕刻物上。
And he carved cherubim and palm trees and open flowers on them, and he overlaid them with gold evenly applied over the carved work.
6:36 他又用凿成的石头三层、香柏木梁一层建筑内院。
And he built the inner court with three courses of hewn stone and a course of cedar beams.
6:37 所罗门在位第四年西弗月，立了耶和华殿的根基。
In the fourth year the foundation of the house of Jehovah was laid, in the month of Ziv;
6:38 到十一年布勒月，就是八月，殿的各部分都按着指定的样式完成。他建殿共用了七年。
And in the eleventh year, in the month of Bul (which is the eighth month) the house was completed in all its parts and according to all its specifications. Thus he
was seven years building it.
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 7 章
7:1 所罗门为自己建造宫室，共用了十三年，才全部完成。
And Solomon was thirteen years building his own house, and he finished all his house.
7:2 他建造利巴嫩林宫，长一百肘，宽五十肘，高三十肘，有香柏木柱四行，柱上有香柏木梁。
And he built the Lebanon Forest House, a hundred cubits long and fifty cubits wide and thirty cubits high, upon four rows of cedar pillars, with cedar beams upon
the pillars.
7:3 每行柱子十五根，柱子上有横梁，共四十五根，横梁上以香柏木为盖。
And it was roofed with cedar above the forty-five beams that were upon the pillars, fifteen in a row.
7:4 有窗框三行，窗与窗相对，共有三层。
And there were window frames in three rows, and window was next to window in three tiers.
7:5 所有的门口和门框都是厚木见方的，有窗户三层，窗与窗相对。
And all the doorways and doorposts had square frames, and window was next to window in three tiers.
7:6 他又造有柱子的廊子，长五十肘，宽三十肘；这些柱子前又有廊子，廊子前又有柱子和台阶。
And he made the portico of pillars, fifty cubits long and thirty cubits wide, with a portico before them and with pillars and a threshold before them.
7:7 又造了设有宝座的廊子，就是审判的廊子，他可以在那里施行审判；这廊子从地到顶都用香柏木遮蔽。
And he made the throne portico, where he would execute judgment, the judgment portico; and it was covered with cedar from floor to floor.
7:8 在廊后另一个院内，有所罗门住的宫室，造法相同。所罗门又为所娶法老的女儿建造一宫，造法与这廊子一样。
And his house that he was to dwell in, in the court to the rear of the throne portico, was of the same workmanship. He also made a house for Pharaoh's daughter,
whom Solomon had taken as his wife, like this portico.
7:9 建造这一切所用的，都是宝贵的石头，是按着尺寸凿成，用锯子里外锯齐的；从根基直到檐石，从外头直到大院，都是如此。
All these were of costly stones, cut according to measure, sawed with saws, within and without, from the foundation to the coping, and from the outside to the
great court.
7:10 根基是宝贵的大石头，有长十肘的，有长八肘的；
And the foundation was of costly stones, large stones, stones of ten cubits and stones of eight cubits.
7:11 面有按着尺寸凿成的宝贵石头，也有香柏木。
And above were costly stones, cut according to measure, and cedar.
7:12 大院周围有凿成的石头三层、香柏木梁一层，与耶和华殿的内院和殿廊一样。
And the great court surrounding had three rows of hewn stone and a row of cedar beams, as did the inner court of the house of Jehovah and the portico of the
house.
7:13 所罗门王差遣人往推罗去，将户兰召了来。
And King Solomon sent for Hiram and brought him from Tyre.
7:14 他是拿弗他利支派中一个寡妇的儿子，他父亲是推罗人，作铜匠的。户兰满有智慧、悟性、技能，善于作各样铜工。他来到所罗门王那里，作王一切
的工作。
He was the son of a widow of the tribe of Naphtali whose father was a man of Tyre, a bronze worker; and he was full of wisdom and understanding and skill to
do all kinds of work in bronze. And he came to King Solomon and did all his work.
7:15 他制造两根铜柱，每根柱子高十八肘，柱子围十二肘；
And he formed the two bronze pillars; eighteen cubits was the height of each pillar, and a line of twelve cubits encompassed each pillar.
7:16 又用铜铸了两个柱顶安在柱子上，一个柱顶高五肘，另一个柱顶也高五肘。
And he made two capitals of molten bronze to set upon the tops of the pillars; the height of the one capital was five cubits, and the height of the second capital
was five cubits.
7:17 柱子上端的柱顶有装修的格子网和拧成的炼索形成的花圈，一个柱顶有七个，
There were nets of checker work with wreaths of chain work for the capitals that were at the top of the pillars, seven for the one capital, and seven for the second
capital.
346
7:18 另一个柱顶也有七个。他作了柱子；一个网子周围有两行石榴，遮盖柱子上端的柱顶；另一个柱顶也是这样作。
So he made the pillars; and there were two rows around the one network, to cover the capitals that were at the top of the pomegranates. And he did the same
for the second capital.
7:19 廊子里柱子上端的柱顶径四肘，刻着百合花。
And the capitals that were at the top of the pillars in the portico were of lily work, four cubits high.
7:20 两根柱子上的柱顶，在网子旁边的鼓肚上，按着鼓肚，每一柱顶有二百个石榴，分行环绕。
So then the capitals that were on the two pillars were above and close to the bulge that was beside the network. And there were two hundred pomegranates, in
rows around both capitals.
7:21 他将两根柱子立在殿廊前头：右边立一根，起名叫雅斤；左边立一根，起名叫波阿斯。
And he erected the pillars at the portico of the temple. When he erected the right pillar, he called its name Jachin; and when he erected the left pillar, he called its
name Boaz.
7:22 在柱子上端刻着百合花。这样，造柱子的工就完毕了。
And at the top of the pillars was lily work. And the work on the pillars was completed.
7:23 他又铸一个铜海，直径十肘，样式是圆的，高五肘，围三十肘。
And he made the molten sea, ten cubits from brim to brim, fully round; and it was five cubits high, and a line of thirty cubits encompassed it.
7:24 在海的边缘之下，周围有野瓜环绕；每肘十瓜，围绕着铜海，共有两行，是铸海的时候铸上的。
And under its brim there were knops all around, encircling it, ten to a cubit, surrounding the sea all around; the knops were cast in two rows when they were cast.
7:25 海立在十二只铜牛背上，三只向北，三只向西，三只向南，三只向东；海在牛上，牛尾都向内。
It stood upon twelve oxen, three facing north and three facing west and three facing south and three facing east; and the sea was upon them, and all their
hindquarters were within.
7:26 海厚一掌，其边如杯边的作法，如百合花，可容二千罢特。
And it was a handbreadth thick; and its brim was like the work of a cup's brim, like the flower of a lily; it held two thousand baths.
7:27 他用铜制造十个盆座，每座长四肘，宽四肘，高三肘。
And he made the ten bases of bronze; one base was four cubits long and four cubits wide, and it was three cubits high.
7:28 座的造法是这样：这些座都有镶板，镶板在框架中间。
And this was the work of each base: They had panels, and the panels were between frames.
7:29 框架中间的镶板上有狮子、牛和基路伯；框架上有小座，狮子和牛以下有垂下的环饰。
And on the panels that were between the frames were lions, oxen, and cherubim. And above the frames was a pedestal, and below the lions and oxen there
were wreaths of hanging work.
7:30 每盆座有四个铜轮和铜轴。盆座的四脚有铸成的支架在盆以下，其旁都有环饰。
And each base had four bronze wheels with bronze axles. And its four feet had supports; underneath the laver the supports had been cast, with wreaths at the
side of each.
7:31 盆口是在冠状架里面，高出一肘；冠状架的口是圆的，
And the mouth of the laver was within this crown, and it rose above by one cubit; and its mouth was round like the work of a pedestal; it was a cubit and a half
and upon its mouth were engravings as well, and its panels were square, not round.
7:32 如同小座的作法，径一肘半，在口上有雕工，其上的镶板是方的，不是圆的。四个轮子在镶板以下，轮轴与盆座相连，每轮高一肘半。
And the four wheels were underneath the panels, and the wheel axles were in the base; each wheel was a cubit and a half high.
7:33 轮的作法如同车轮的作法；轴、辋、辐、毂都是铸的。
And the work of the wheels was like the work of a chariot wheel: their axles and their rims and their spokes and their hubs were all molten.
7:34 每盆座四角上都有支架，共四个支架，是盆座的一部分。
And there were four supports at the four corners of each base; its supports were part of the base.
7:35 座顶有圆架，高半肘；座顶有撑子和镶板，是与座一块铸的。
And at the top of the base there was a round band half a cubit high; and at the top of the base, its stays and its panels were of one piece.
7:36 在撑子表面和镶板上，各按空处刻着基路伯、狮子和棕树，周围有环饰。
And on the surfaces of the stays and on its panels he engraved cherubim, lions, and palm trees, as there was space on each, with wreaths all around.
7:37 十个盆座都是这样作，都是一个铸法、尺寸和样式。
In this manner he made the ten bases; all of them had one casting, one measure, and one form.
7:38 又制造十个铜盆，每盆可容四十罢特；每盆径四肘，在那十个盆座上，每座上有一盆。
And he made ten bronze lavers; each laver held forty baths; each laver was four cubits across; there was one laver upon every one of the ten bases.
7:39 将盆座五个放在殿的右边，五个放在殿的左边；又将海放在殿的右边，就是在东南边。
And he set the bases, five on the right side of the house and five on the left side of the house; and the sea he set on the right side of the house, on the east side at
the south.
7:40 户兰又造了锅、铲和碗。这样，户兰完成了他为所罗门王所作耶和华殿的一切工。
And Hiram made the basins and the shovels and the bowls. Thus Hiram finished doing all the work that he was doing for King Solomon in the house of Jehovah:
7:41 所造的就是：两根柱子，和柱子上端柱顶的两个球，并两个盖着柱子上端柱顶两个球的网子；
The two pillars, and the two bowls of the capitals that were at the top of the pillars, and the two networks to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were at the
top of the pillars;
7:42 四百个石榴，安在两个网子上，每网两行石榴，盖着柱子上端柱顶的两个球；
And the four hundred pomegranates for the two networks, two rows of pomegranates for each network, to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the
pillars;
7:43 十个盆座和其上的十个盆；
And the ten bases and the ten lavers upon the bases;
7:44 一个海和海下的十二只牛；
And the one sea and the twelve oxen under the sea;
7:45 锅、铲和碗。户兰给所罗门王所造耶和华殿里的这一切器具，都是用磨亮的铜造的；
And the pots and the shovels and the bowls; all these vessels that Hiram made for King Solomon in the house of Jehovah were of burnished bronze.
347
7:46 是王在约但平原，在疏割和撒拉但之间用胶泥铸成的。
The king cast them in the plain of the Jordan, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zarethan.
7:47 因为这一切器具太多，所以所罗门都没有过秤；铜的重量无法可查。
And Solomon left all the vessels unweighed because of the very great number; the weight of bronze could not be ascertained.
7:48 所罗门又造耶和华殿里的一切器具：金坛和摆陈设饼的金桌子；
And Solomon made all the vessels that were in the house of Jehovah: the golden altar; and the golden table upon which the bread of the Presence was put;
7:49 内殿前的纯金灯台，右边五个，左边五个；并其上的花、灯盏、灯剪，都是金的；
And the lampstands of pure gold, five on the right and five on the left, before the innermost sanctuary; and the flowers and the lamps and the tongs, of gold;
7:50 杯、镊子、碗、调羹、火盆，都是纯金的；以及内殿，就是至圣所的门枢，和外殿的门枢，都是金的。
And the cups and the snuffers and the bowls and the spoons and the firepans, of pure gold; and the hinges, for the doors of the inner house, the Holy of Holies,
and for the doors of the house of the temple, of gold.
7:51 这样，所罗门王为耶和华殿所作的一切工完成了。所罗门把他父亲大卫分别为圣之物，就是银子、金子和器具，都带来放在耶和华殿的府库里。
Thus all the work that King Solomon did in the house of Jehovah was finished. And Solomon brought in the things that David his father had sanctified, the silver
and the gold and the vessels, and he put them in the treasuries of the house of Jehovah.
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 8 章
8:1 那时，所罗门将以色列的长老们和各支派的首领，就是以色列人宗族的首领，招聚到耶路撒冷所罗门王那里，要把耶和华的约柜从大卫城，就是锡安，
运上来。
Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel and all the heads of the tribes, the leaders of the fathers' houses of the children of Israel, before King Solomon in
Jerusalem in order to bring up the Ark of the Covenant of Jehovah from the city of David, which is Zion.
8:2 以他念月，就是七月，在节期的时候，以色列人都聚集到所罗门王那里。
And all the men of Israel assembled themselves before King Solomon at the feast in the month of Ethnaim, which is the seventh month.
8:3 以色列的众长老来到，祭司便抬起约柜；他们将耶和华的约柜、
And when all the elders of Israel came, the priests took up the Ark;
8:4 会幕、和会幕里的一切圣器具，都运上来，是祭司和利未人将这一切运上来的。
And they brought up the Ark of Jehovah and the Tent of Meeting and all the holy vessels that were in the tent; and the priests and Levites brought them up.
8:5 所罗门王和聚集到他那里的以色列全会众，一同在约柜前献牛羊为祭，多得无法计算，无法数点。
And King Solomon and all the assembly of Israel, who had assembled before him and were with him before the Ark, were sacrificing sheep and oxen which
could not be counted or numbered for multitude.
8:6 祭司将耶和华的约柜抬进所预备的地方，就是圣殿的内殿，也就是至圣所，放在两个基路伯的翅膀底下。
And the priests brought the Ark of the Covenant of Jehovah to its place, into the innermost sanctuary of the house, into the Holy of Holies under the wings of the
cherubim.
8:7 因为基路伯张着翅膀在约柜所在之处以上，遮掩约柜和抬柜的杠。
For the cherubim had their wings spread out over the place of the Ark, and the cherubim covered the Ark and its poles overhead.
8:8 这两根杠甚长，杠头在内殿前的圣所可以看见，在殿外却不能看见，直到今日还在那里。
And the poles extended out so that the ends of the poles could be seen from the Holy Place before the innermost sanctuary, but they were not seen outside; and
they are there to this day.
8:9 约柜里只有两块石版，就是以色列人出埃及地后，耶和华与他们立约的时候，摩西在何烈山所放的；除此以外，并无别物。
There was nothing in the Ark except the two stone tablets, which Moses placed there at Horeb when Jehovah made a covenant with the children of Israel when
they came out of the land of Egypt.
8:10 祭司从圣所出来的时候，有云充满耶和华的殿；
And when the priests came out of the Holy Place, the cloud filled the house of Jehovah;
8:11 因着那云的缘故，祭司不能站立供职，因为耶和华的荣光充满了耶和华的殿。
And the priests were not able to stand and minister because of the cloud, for the glory of Jehovah filled the house of Jehovah.
8:12 那时所罗门说，耶和华曾说，祂要住在幽暗之中。
Then Solomon said, Jehovah has said that He would dwell in deep darkness.
8:13 我已经为你建造巍峨的殿宇，作你永远的居所。
I have surely built You a lofty house, a place for You to dwell in forever.
8:14 王转脸为以色列全会众祝福，以色列全会众都站着。
And the king turned about and blessed all the congregation of Israel while all the congregation of Israel stood.
8:15 所罗门说，耶和华以色列的神是当受颂赞的，祂亲口向我父亲大卫说话，也亲手成就了；祂说，
And he said, Blessed be Jehovah the God of Israel, who spoke with His mouth to David my father and fulfilled it with His hand, saying,
8:16 自从我领我民以色列出埃及的日子以来，我未曾在以色列众支派中选择一城建造殿宇，使我的名可以立在那里；但我拣选了大卫治理我民以色列。
Since the day when I brought My people Israel out from Egypt, I have not chosen a city out of all the tribes of Israel to build a house for My name that it might be
there; but I chose David to be over My people Israel.
8:17 我父亲大卫心中立意，要为耶和华以色列神的名建殿；
And it was on David my father's heart to build a house for the name of Jehovah the God of Israel;
8:18 耶和华却对我父亲大卫说，你心中立意为我的名建殿，这心意甚好；
But Jehovah said to David my father, Because it was on your heart to build a house for My name, you have done well that it was on your heart;
8:19 只是你不可建殿，惟你腰中所出的儿子必为我的名建殿。
However you will not build the house, but your son, who will come forth from your loins, he will build the house for My name.
8:20 现在耶和华履行了祂所说的话，因我已经起来接续我父亲大卫坐以色列的国位，正如耶和华所应许的，我又为耶和华以色列神的名建造了这殿。
And Jehovah has established His word which He spoke; for I have risen up in the place of David my father, and I sit upon the throne of Israel, as Jehovah
promised, and I have built the house for the name of Jehovah the God of Israel.
348
8:21 我也在那里为约柜预备了一个地方，柜内有耶和华的约，就是祂领我们列祖出埃及地的时候，与他们所立的。
And there I have set a place for the Ark, in which is the covenant of Jehovah, which He made with our fathers when He brought them out from the land of Egypt.
8:22 所罗门当着以色列全会众，站在耶和华的坛前，向天伸开双手祷告，
Then Solomon stood before the altar of Jehovah in front of all the congregation of Israel and spread his hands toward heaven.
8:23 说，耶和华以色列的神阿，上天下地没有神可比你的；你向那全心行在你面前的仆人守约并施慈爱；
And he said, O Jehovah, God of Israel, there is no god like You, in heaven above or on the earth below, who keeps covenant and lovingkindness with Your
servants who walk before You with all their heart;
8:24 你守住了你向你仆人我父亲大卫所应许的话；你亲口说过，今日果然亲手成就了。
You who have kept with Your servant David my father that which You have promised him; indeed You have spoken with Your mouth and have fulfilled with Your
hand this day.
8:25 耶和华以色列的神阿，现在求你向你仆人我父亲大卫守住你的应许；你曾对他说，你的子孙若谨守他们的道路，行在我面前，像你行在我面前一样，
就不断有人在我面前坐以色列的国位。
And now, O Jehovah, God of Israel, keep with Your servant David my father that which You promised him, saying, There shall not fail you a man in My sight to sit
upon the throne of Israel, if only your children keep their way by walking before Me as you have walked before Me.
8:26 以色列的神阿，现在求你使你向你仆人我父亲大卫所说的话得着证实。
Now therefore, O God of Israel, may Your word that You spoke to Your servant David my father be confirmed.
8:27 神果真住在地上么？看哪，天和天上的天尚且容不下你，何况我所建的这殿呢？
But will God indeed dwell on the earth? Behold, the heavens and the heaven of heavens are not able to contain You, how much less this house which I have built.
8:28 耶和华我的神阿，求你垂顾仆人的祷告和恳求，俯听仆人今日在你面前所发的呼喊和祷告。
Yet have regard to the prayer of Your servant and to his supplication, O Jehovah my God, and listen to the cry and to the prayer which Your servant is praying
before You today;
8:29 愿你的眼目昼夜看顾这殿，看顾你所说，我的名要立在那里的地方；求你垂听仆人向此处所发的祷告。
That Your eyes may be open toward this house night and day, toward the place of which You have said, My name will be there, to listen to the prayer which Your
servant will pray toward this place.
8:30 你仆人和你民以色列向此处祷告的时候，求你垂听他们的恳求；求你在天上你的居所垂听，垂听而赦免。
And listen to the supplication of Your servant and of Your people Israel when they pray toward this place. Hear then in Your dwelling place in the heavens; and
when You hear, forgive.
8:31 人若得罪邻舍，有人叫他起誓，他来到这殿，在你的坛前起誓，
If a man sins against his neighbor and is made to take an oath, and he comes and takes an oath before Your altar in this house;
8:32 求你在天上垂听并行事，审断你的仆人，定恶人有罪，照他的行径回报在他头上；称义人为义，照他的义赏赐他。
Then hear in the heavens and act and judge Your servants, condemning the wicked by bringing his way on his head and justifying the righteous by giving to him
according to his righteousness.
8:33 你的民以色列若因犯罪得罪你，败在仇敌面前，又归向你，承认你的名，在这殿里向你祷告恳求，
When Your people Israel are defeated before an enemy because they have sinned against You, and they turn to You and confess Your name and pray and make
supplication to You in this house;
8:34 求你在天上垂听，赦免你民以色列的罪，使他们归回你赐给他们列祖之地。
Then hear in the heavens, and forgive the sin of Your people Israel, and bring them back to the land which You gave to their fathers.
8:35 你的民因犯罪得罪你，你苦待他们，使天闭塞不下雨；他们若向此处祷告，承认你的名，回转离开他们的罪，
When the heavens are shut up and there is no rain because they have sinned against You, and they pray toward this place and confess Your name and turn from
their sin when You afflict them;
8:36 求你在天上垂听，赦免你众仆人和以色列民的罪，将当行的善道指教他们，且降雨在你的地上，就是你赐给你民为业之地。
Then hear in the heavens and forgive the sin of Your servants and of Your people Israel; indeed teach them the good way in which they should walk, and bring
rain upon Your land, which You have given to Your people for an inheritance.
8:37 这地若有饥荒、瘟疫、旱风、霉烂、群蝗、毁蝗，或有仇敌把他们围困在他们城邑所在之地，无论遭遇什么灾祸疾病，
If there is famine in the land, if there is pestilence, if there is blight or mildew, swarming locust or consuming locust, if their enemy besieges them in the land of
their cities, whatever plague, whatever sickness there is;
8:38 你的民以色列众人中，若有任何一人，自觉心中有罪疚，向这殿伸开双手，无论祷告什么，恳求什么，
Whatever prayer, whatever supplication, which will be made by any man of all Your people Israel, each knowing the plague of his own heart, when he spreads
out his hands toward this house;
8:39 求你在天上你的居所垂听、赦免并行事；你是知道人心的，惟有你知道所有世人的心，求你照各人一切的行径施行赏罚；
Then hear in the heavens Your dwelling place, and forgive and act and render to each man according to all his ways, whose heart You know; for You, You alone
know the hearts of all the children of men;
8:40 使他们在你赐给我们列祖的地上，一生的日子都敬畏你。
That they may fear You all the days that they live in the land which You have given to our fathers.
8:41 至于不属你民以色列的外邦人，为你名从远方而来；
And also concerning the foreigner, who is not of Your people Israel but comes from a distant country for the sake of Your name
8:42 他们听到你的大名和大能的手，并伸出来的膀臂，就来向着这殿祷告，
(For they will hear about Your great name and Your strong hand and Your outstretched arm), when he comes and prays toward this house;
8:43 求你在天上你的居所垂听，照着外邦人向你所呼求的一切而行，使地上万民都认识你的名，敬畏你，像你的民以色列一样；又使他们知道我建造的这
殿，是称为你名下的。
Then hear in the heavens Your dwelling place, and act according to all that the foreigner calls upon You for, that all the peoples of the earth may know Your
name and that they may fear You, as do Your people Israel, and that they may know that this house which I have built is called by Your name.
8:44 你的民若在你所差遣他们的路上，出去与仇敌争战，向着你所选择的城与我为你名所建造的殿，向你耶和华祷告，
If Your people go out to battle against their enemy by the way which You have sent them, and they pray to Jehovah toward the city which You have chosen and
the house which I have built for Your name;
8:45 求你在天上垂听他们的祷告和恳求，为他们施行公理。
349
Then hear their prayer and their supplication in the heavens and maintain their cause.
8:46 他们若犯罪得罪你，(世上没有不犯罪的人，)你向他们发怒，将他们交给仇敌，以致掳掠他们的人把他们掳到仇敌之地，或远或近；
If they have sinned against You (for there is no man who does not sin) and You are angry with them and deliver them up to the enemy, so that they are carried
away captive unto the land of the enemy, far away or nearby;
8:47 他们若在掳到之地心里回想起罪来，在掳掠他们之人的地回心转意，恳求你说，我们有了罪，作了孽，行了恶；
But if they take it to heart in the land where they were carried captive, and they repent and make supplication to You in the land of those who carried them away
captive, saying, We have sinned and committed iniquity and acted wickedly;
8:48 他们若在掳掠他们之仇敌的地，全心全魂归向你，又向着自己的地，就是你赐给他们列祖之地，和你所选择的城，并我为你名所建造的殿，向你祷告，
And if they return to You with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their enemies, who have carried them captive, and they pray to You toward their
land that You have given to their fathers, the city that You have chosen, and the house that I have built for Your name;
8:49 求你在天上你的居所垂听他们的祷告和恳求，为他们施行公理，
Then hear their prayer and their supplication in the heavens Your dwelling place and maintain their cause,
8:50 饶恕犯罪得罪你的民，赦免他们违背你的一切过犯，使他们在掳掠他们的人面前蒙怜恤，叫掳掠他们的人怜恤他们；
And forgive Your people who have sinned against You and all their transgressions which they have transgressed against You, and grant them compassion in the
sight of those who lead them captive, that they might have compassion on them
8:51 (因为他们是你的子民，你的产业，是你从埃及，从铁炉中领出来的；)
(For they are Your people and Your inheritance, whom You brought out from Egypt, from the midst of an iron furnace);
8:52 愿你的眼顾及你仆人和你民以色列的恳求，每当他们向你呼求，愿你垂听。
That Your eyes may be open to the supplication of Your servant and to the supplication of Your people Israel to listen to them whenever they call upon You.
8:53 主耶和华阿，因你已将他们从地上的万民中分别出来，作你的产业，正如你领我们列祖出埃及的时候，藉你仆人摩西所说的。
For You have separated them from all the peoples of the earth to be Your inheritance, as You spoke through Moses Your servant, when You brought our fathers
out from Egypt, O Lord Jehovah.
8:54 所罗门在耶和华的坛前屈膝跪着，向天伸开双手，向耶和华祷告恳求已毕，就起来，站着，
And when Solomon had finished praying all this prayer and supplication to Jehovah, he rose up from before the altar of Jehovah, from kneeling on his knees with
his hands spread toward the heavens.
8:55 大声为以色列全会众祝福，说，
And he stood and blessed the whole congregation of Israel with a loud voice, saying,
8:56 耶和华是当受颂赞的；祂照着一切所应许的，赐安息给祂民以色列人。凡祂借着祂仆人摩西所说美好应许的话，一句都没有落空。
Blessed be Jehovah, who has given rest to His people Israel, according to all that He promised. Not one word of all His good promises which He spoke through
Moses His servant has failed.
8:57 愿耶和华我们的神与我们同在，像与我们列祖同在一样；愿祂不撇下我们，不丢弃我们，
May Jehovah our God be with us, as He was with our fathers; let Him not forsake us nor abandon us,
8:58 使我们的心归向祂，遵行祂一切的道路，谨守祂吩咐我们列祖的诫命、律例和典章。
That He may incline our hearts to Himself, to walk in all His ways and to keep His commandments and His statutes and His ordinances, which He commanded
our fathers.
8:59 愿我向耶和华恳求的这些话，昼夜离耶和华我们的神不远，使祂每日为祂仆人和祂民以色列人施行公理，
And let these words of mine, with which I made supplication to Jehovah, be near to Jehovah our God day and night to maintain the cause of His servant and the
cause of His people Israel as each day requires;
8:60 使地上的万民都知道，惟独耶和华是神，并无别神。
That all the peoples of the earth may know that Jehovah is God; there is none else.
8:61 所以你们的心当完全归向耶和华我们的神，你们当遵行祂的律例，谨守祂的诫命，如今日一样。
Let your heart therefore be perfect with Jehovah our God, to walk in His statutes and to keep His commandments as on this day.
8:62 王和以色列众人一同在耶和华面前献祭。
And the king and all Israel with him offered sacrifices before Jehovah.
8:63 所罗门向耶和华献平安祭，用牛二万二千，羊十二万。这样，王和以色列众人为耶和华的殿行了奉献之礼。
And Solomon offered a sacrifice of peace offerings, which he offered to Jehovah: twenty-two thousand oxen and one hundred and twenty thousand sheep. Thus
the king and all the children of Israel dedicated the house of Jehovah.
8:64 当日，王因耶和华面前的铜坛太小，容不下燔祭、素祭、和平安祭牲的脂油，便将耶和华殿前院子当中分别为圣，在那里献燔祭、素祭、和平安祭牲
的脂油。
On that day the king sanctified the middle of the court that was before the house of Jehovah, for there he offered the burnt offering and the meal offering and the
fat of peace offerings because the bronze altar which was before Jehovah was too small to receive the burnt offering and the meal offering and the fat of peace
offerings.
8:65 那时所罗门和以色列众人，就是从哈马口直到埃及小河的人，聚集成为大会，在耶和华我们的神面前守节七日又七日，共十四日。
And Solomon held a feast at that time and all Israel with him, a great congregation, from the entrance of Hamath to the brook of Egypt, before Jehovah our God,
seven days and seven more days, fourteen days in all.
8:66 第八日，王遣散众民；他们都为王祝福，并且因耶和华向祂仆人大卫和祂民以色列人所行一切美善的事，就都心中欢喜快乐，各回各的帐棚去了。
On the eighth day he sent the people away, and they blessed the king and went to their tents joyful and happy in heart for all the goodness which Jehovah had
done to David His servant and to Israel His people.
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 9 章
9:1 所罗门建造耶和华的殿和王宫，并所罗门所愿意造的一切，都完毕了，
And when Solomon had finished building the house of Jehovah and the king's house and everything that Solomon desired to make,
9:2 耶和华就第二次向所罗门显现，如先前在基遍向他显现一样。
Jehovah appeared to Solomon a second time, as He had appeared to him at Gibeon.
350
9:3 耶和华对他说，你在我面前所祷告恳求的，我都应允了；我已将你所建造的这殿分别为圣，把我的名永远立在那里；我的眼、我的心也必常在那里。
And Jehovah said to him, I have heard your prayer and your supplication which you have made before Me; I have sanctified this house which you have built by
putting My name there forever, and My eyes and My heart will be there continually.
9:4 至于你，你若像你父亲大卫那样，凭纯全正直的心行在我面前，遵行我一切所吩咐你的，谨守我的律例和典章，
And as for you, if you walk before Me, as David your father walked, with a perfect and upright heart by observing all that I have commanded you and keep My
statutes and My ordinances,
9:5 我就必坚立你的国位，使你治理以色列，直到永远，正如我应许你父亲大卫说，你的子孙必不断有人坐以色列的国位。
Then I will establish the throne of your kingdom over Israel forever, as I promised to David your father, saying, You will not lack a man on the throne of Israel.
9:6 倘若你们和你们的子孙转离不跟从我，不守我摆在你们面前的诫命和律例，去事奉敬拜别神，
But if you or your sons indeed turn away from following Me and do not keep My commandments and My statutes, which I have put before you, and go and serve
other gods and worship them,
9:7 我就必将以色列人从我赐给他们的地上剪除，并且我为自己的名所分别为圣的殿，也必丢弃不顾，使以色列人在万民中成为笑谈和讥诮的因由。
Then I will cut Israel off from the face of the land which I have given them, and the house which I have sanctified for My name I will cast out of My sight, and Israel
will be a proverb and a byword among all the peoples.
9:8 这殿必成为荒堆，将来经过的人必惊讶、嗤笑，说，耶和华为何向这地和这殿如此行呢？
And this house will become heaps, and everyone who passes by it will be astonished and hiss and say, Why has Jehovah done this to this land and to this house?
9:9 人必说，是因此地的人离弃领他们列祖出埃及地之耶和华他们的神，去依附别神，敬拜事奉别神，所以耶和华使这一切灾祸临到他们。
And they will say, Because they forsook Jehovah their God, who brought their fathers out of the land of Egypt, and laid hold of other gods and worshipped them
and served them; therefore Jehovah brought all this evil upon them.
9:10 所罗门建造耶和华的殿和王宫，这两所共用了二十年，完毕的时候，
And at the end of the twenty years in which Solomon had built the two houses, the house of Jehovah and the king's house,
9:11 因推罗王希兰曾照所罗门一切所要的，资助他香柏木、松木和金子，所罗门王就把加利利地的二十座城给了希兰。
Since Hiram the king of Tyre had supplied Solomon with cedar wood and with cypress wood and with gold, according to all that he desired, King Solomon gave
Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galilee.
9:12 希兰从推罗出来，察看所罗门给他的这些城，就不喜悦，
And Hiram came out from Tyre to see the cities which Solomon had given him, and they did not please him.
9:13 说，我兄弟阿，你给我的这些是什么城呢？他就给这些城所在之地起名叫迦步勒地，直到今日。
And he said, What are these cities which you have given me, my brother? And he called them the land of Cabul, as it is unto this day.
9:14 希兰送给所罗门王一百二十他连得金子。
And Hiram sent to the king one hundred and twenty talents of gold.
9:15 以下所记的，是所罗门王征召服苦役的人，为着建造耶和华的殿、自己的宫、米罗、耶路撒冷的城墙、夏琐、米吉多和基色。
Now this is the account of the forced labor which King Solomon levied to build the house of Jehovah and his own house and the Millo and the wall of Jerusalem,
and Hazor and Megiddo and Gezer.
9:16 (先前埃及王法老上来攻取基色，用火焚烧，杀了城内居住的迦南人，将城赐给他女儿所罗门的妻子作妆奁。)
(Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, had gone up and captured Gezer and burned it with fire and had slain the Canaanites who lived in the city and given it as a dowry to
his daughter, the wife of Solomon.)
9:17 所罗门重建基色、下伯和仑、
And Solomon rebuilt Gezer and lower Beth-Horon,
9:18 巴拉、和犹大地旷野里的达莫，
And Baalath and Tamar in the wilderness, in the land of Judah,
9:19 又建造所有的积货城，并屯车城和马兵城，以及他在耶路撒冷、利巴嫩、和他治理的全地所愿建造的。
And all the storage cities that Solomon had, even the cities for chariots, and the cities for horsemen and what Solomon desired to build in Jerusalem and in
Lebanon and in all the land of his dominion.
9:20 至于所剩下，属于亚摩利人、赫人、比利洗人、希未人、耶布斯人，不属于以色列人的众民，
All of the people that were left of the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, who were not of the children of Israel,
9:21 他们的子孙在他们之后余留在那地，以色列人不能灭尽，所罗门就征召他们作服苦役的人，直到今日。
Their children who were left after them in the land whom the children of Israel were not able to destroy utterly, Solomon levied as forced labor, as they are unto
this day.
9:22 惟有以色列人，所罗门不使他们作奴仆，乃是作战士，作他的臣仆、军长、军官、车兵长、马兵长。
But Solomon did not make slaves of the children of Israel; for they were the men of war and his servants and his officers and his captains and the officers over his
chariots and his horsemen.
9:23 所罗门有五百五十督工的官长，监管作工的人。
These were the chief of the officers over Solomon's work, five hundred and fifty, who ruled over the people doing the work.
9:24 法老的女儿从大卫城搬上所罗门为她建造的宫里；那时，所罗门才建造米罗。
As soon as Pharaoh's daughter came up from the city of David into her house which Solomon had built for her, he built the Millo.
9:25 所罗门每年三次在他为耶和华所筑的坛上献燔祭和平安祭，在耶和华面前的坛上烧成香气。这样，他把殿建造完毕了。
And three times a year Solomon offered up burnt offerings and peace offerings on the altar which he had built to Jehovah, and he burned incense with them on
the altar which was before Jehovah. Thus he finished the house.
9:26 所罗门王又在以东地红海边，靠近以禄的以旬迦别制造船只。
King Solomon also built ships in Ezion-geber, which is near Eloth on the shore of the Red Sea, in the land of Edom.
9:27 希兰差遣他的仆人，就是熟悉泛海的船家，与所罗门的仆人一同坐船航海。
And Hiram sent his servants in the ships, sailors who knew the sea, with the servants of Solomon.
9:28 他们去了俄斐，从那里得了四百二十他连得金子，运到所罗门王那里。
And they went to Ophir and took four hundred and twenty talents of gold from there and brought it to King Solomon.
351
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 10 章
10:1 示巴女王听见所罗门因耶和华之名所得的名声，就来要用难解的话试验所罗门。
And the queen of Sheba had heard of Solomon's fame in connection with the name of Jehovah, and she came to test him with hard questions.
10:2 她带着许多随从到耶路撒冷来，又有骆驼驮着香料、许多金子和宝石。她来见了所罗门，就把心里所有的对所罗门都说出来。
And she came to Jerusalem with a very large retinue, with camels bearing spices and with very much gold and precious stones. And when she came to Solomon,
she spoke all that was on her heart to him.
10:3 所罗门将她所问的都答上了，没有一样对王是隐秘不能答的。
And Solomon answered every matter of hers; there was nothing hidden from the king that he did not answer her.
10:4 示巴女王见所罗门一切的智慧，和他所建造的宫室，
And when the queen of Sheba saw all the wisdom of Solomon and the house that he had built
10:5 他席上的膳肴，群臣的座次，仆人的侍候，他们的服饰，和司酒的服饰，以及他在耶和华殿里所献的燔祭，就诧异得神不守舍。
And the food of his table and the seating of his servants and the service and apparel of his ministers and his cupbearers and his burnt offerings that he offered
up at the house of Jehovah, there was no more spirit in her.
10:6 她对王说，我在我本地所听见的话，论到你的事和你的智慧，实在是真的；
And she said to the king, The word that I heard in my land concerning your deeds and your wisdom is true,
10:7 我先前不信那些话，及至我来亲眼见了，才知道人所告诉我的还不到一半；你的智慧和你的昌盛超过我所听见的传闻。
But I did not believe the words until I came and my own eyes saw. And indeed the half was not told to me; your wisdom and prosperity far exceed the report that
I heard.
10:8 属你的人是有福的！你的这些臣仆，常侍立在你面前听你智慧的话，是有福的！
Happy are your men! Happy are these your servants, who attend you continually and hear your wisdom!
10:9 耶和华你的神是当受颂赞的；祂喜悦你，使你坐以色列的国位；因为耶和华永远爱以色列，所以立你作王，使你施行公理和公义。
Blessed be Jehovah your God, who has delighted in you and set you upon the throne of Israel. Because Jehovah loves Israel forever, he has made you king to
execute justice and righteousness.
10:10 于是，示巴女王将一百二十他连得金子、极多的香料、和宝石送给所罗门王；以后奉来的香料，再也没有像示巴女王送给所罗门的这样多。
And she gave the king a hundred and twenty talents of gold and a very great store of spices and some precious stones; never again did so great an abundance
of spices come as that which the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon.
10:11 希兰的船队从俄斐运了金子来，又从俄斐运了许多檀香木和宝石来。
Moreover Hiram's fleet, which carried gold from Ophir, brought a great many almug trees and precious stones.
10:12 王用檀香木为耶和华殿和王宫作栏杆，又为歌唱的人作琴瑟；以后再没有这样的檀香木进来，也没有人看见过，直到今日。
And the king made of the almug trees a banister for the house of Jehovah and for the king's house, and lyres and harps for the singers; such almug trees have
not come nor have been seen again to this day.
10:13 示巴女王一切所要所求的，所罗门王都送给她，另外照王的厚意馈送她。于是女王和她的臣仆回她本地去了。
And King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all that she desired, whatever she asked for, besides that which King Solomon gave her from his bounty. And she
returned and went to her own land, she and her servants.
10:14 所罗门每年所得的金子，重六百六十六他连得；
Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was six hundred sixty- six talents of gold,
10:15 另外还有商人、来往作贸易的人、亚拉伯的诸王、与那地的省长所进的金子。
Besides that which came through the traders and through the traffic of the merchants and through all the kings of Arabia and the governors of the land.
10:16 所罗门王用锤出来的金子打成挡牌二百面，每面用金子六百舍客勒；
And King Solomon made two hundred large shields of beaten gold; he put six hundred shekels of gold upon each large shield.
10:17 又用锤出来的金子，打成盾牌三百面，每面用金子三弥那；王把这些都放在利巴嫩林宫里。
And he made three hundred smaller shields of beaten gold; he put three minas of gold upon each smaller shield. And the king put them in the Lebanon Forest
House.
10:18 王又造了一个象牙大宝座，用精金包裹。
And the king made a large ivory throne and overlaid it with the finest gold.
10:19 宝座有六层台阶，座的后背有圆顶；座位两旁有扶手，靠近扶手有两只狮子站立。
The throne had six steps, and the top of the throne was rounded at its back; and there were armrests on either side next to the place of the seat, and two lions
stood next to the armrests.
10:20 六层台阶上有十二只狮子站立，左边六只，右边六只；在列国中没有这样作的。
And twelve lions stood there upon the six steps on either side. Nothing like it had ever been made in any kingdom.
10:21 所罗门王一切的饮器都是金的，利巴嫩林宫里的一切器皿都是纯金的，没有用银子作的；所罗门年间，银子算不了什么。
And all King Solomon's drinking vessels were of gold, and all the vessels of the Lebanon Forest House were of pure gold; none were of silver, which was not
considered as anything in the days of Solomon.
10:22 因为王有他施船队与希兰的船队一同航海；三年一次，他施船队把金银、象牙、猿猴、孔雀运来。
For the king had at sea a fleet from Tarshish as well as Hiram's fleet. Once every three years the fleet from Tarshish came bearing gold and silver and ivory and
apes and peacocks.
10:23 所罗门王的财宝与智慧，胜过地上的列王。
And King Solomon excelled all the kings of the earth in wealth and in wisdom.
10:24 全地的王都求见所罗门的面，要听神赐在他心中智慧的话。
And all the earth sought the presence of Solomon to hear his wisdom, which God had put in his heart.
10:25 他们各带贡物，就是银器、金器、衣服、军械、香料、马和骡，每年有一定之例。
And they each brought their tribute, vessels of silver and vessels of gold, and robes and weapons and spices, horses and mules, so much year by year.
10:26 所罗门聚集战车马兵，有战车一千四百辆，马兵一万二千名，安置在屯车城，并在耶路撒冷，在王那里。
And Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen together; and he had a thousand four hundred chariots and twelve thousand horsemen, which he stationed in
the chariot cities and with the king at Jerusalem.
352
10:27 王在耶路撒冷使银子多如石头，香柏木多如低陆的桑树。
And the king caused silver to be as plentiful as stones in Jerusalem; and cedars, like the sycamores that are in the lowlands.
10:28 所罗门的马出自埃及和古厄，是王的商人从古厄按着定价买来的。
And the horses that Solomon had came from Egypt and from Kue; the king's traders bought them from Kue at a fixed price.
10:29 从埃及买来的车，每辆价银六百舍客勒，马每匹一百五十舍客勒；赫人诸王和亚兰诸王所买的车马，也是这样经他们手带出来的。
A chariot could be imported from Egypt for six hundred shekels of silver and a horse for a hundred and fifty shekels, and thus they brought them out to all the
kings of the Hittites and the kings of Syria by their own means.
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 11 章
11:1 所罗门王在法老的女儿之外，又宠爱许多外邦女子，就是摩押女子、亚扪女子、以东女子、西顿女子、赫人女子。
But King Solomon loved many foreign women in addition to Pharaoh's daughter-Moabite, Ammonite, Edomite, Sidonian, and Hittite women,
11:2 论到这些国民，耶和华曾对以色列人说，你们不可到他们中间去，他们也不可到你们中间来，因为他们必使你们的心偏离，去随从他们的神。所罗门
却爱恋这些国的女子。
From among the nations concerning which Jehovah had said to the children of Israel, You shall not go among them, nor shall they come among you, for they will
surely turn your heart after their gods. Solomon clung to these in love.
11:3 所罗门有妃七百，都是公主，还有嫔三百；这些妃嫔使他的心偏离了。
And he had seven hundred princess wives and three hundred concubines, and his wives turned his heart away.
11:4 所罗门年老的时候，他的妃嫔使他的心偏离，去随从别神；他的心就不像他父亲大卫的心那样，完全向着耶和华他的神。
And when Solomon was old, his wives turned his heart after other gods; and his heart was not perfect toward Jehovah his God like the heart of David his father.
11:5 所罗门随从西顿人的女神亚斯他录，和亚扪人的可憎之物米勒公。
And Solomon went after Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians and after Milcom the detestable thing of the Ammonites.
11:6 所罗门行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，不像他父亲大卫那样，专一跟从耶和华。
And Solomon did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah and did not fully follow Jehovah as David his father had done.
11:7 所罗门为摩押的可憎之物基抹，和亚扪人的可憎之物摩洛，在耶路撒冷对面的山上建筑邱坛。
Then Solomon built a high place to Chemosh the detestable thing of Moab in the mountain that is before Jerusalem and to Molech the detestable thing of the
children of Ammon.
11:8 他为所有向自己的神烧香献祭的外邦妃嫔，也是这样行。
And so he did for all his foreign wives, who burned incense and offered sacrifices to their gods.
11:9 耶和华向所罗门发怒，因为他的心偏离了耶和华以色列的神；耶和华曾两次向他显现，
So Jehovah became angry with Solomon because his heart turned away from Jehovah the God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice,
11:10 并曾为这事吩咐他不可随从别神；他却没有遵守耶和华所吩咐的。
And who had commanded him concerning this very matter, not to go after other gods; but he did not keep that which Jehovah had commanded.
11:11 耶和华对所罗门说，你既行了这事，不遵守我所吩咐你守的约和律例，我必将你的国撕去，赐给你的臣仆。
And Jehovah said to Solomon, Because you have done this and have not kept My covenant and My statutes, which I commanded you, I will surely tear the
kingdom away from you and give it to your servant.
11:12 然而，因你父亲大卫的缘故，我不在你活着的日子行这事，我必从你儿子的手中将国撕去。
However I will not do it in your days, because of David your father; I will tear it out of your son's hand.
11:13 只是我不将全国从你撕去；我要因我仆人大卫和我所选择的耶路撒冷，将一个支派留给你的儿子。
But I will not tear the whole kingdom away from you; I will give one tribe to your son because of David My servant and because of Jerusalem, which I have chosen.
11:14 耶和华使以东人哈达兴起，作所罗门的对头；他是以东王的后裔。
And Jehovah raised up an adversary to Solomon, Hadad the Edomite; he was of the king's seed in Edom.
11:15 先前大卫攻击以东，元帅约押上去葬埋阵亡的人，将以东的男丁都杀了。
Now when David was in Edom and Joab the captain of the army went up to bury the slain, he struck down all the males in Edom;
11:16 约押和以色列众人在那里住了六个月，直到将以东的男丁尽都剪除。
For Joab and all Israel remained there for six months, until he had cut down every male in Edom.
11:17 那时哈达还是幼童；他和他父亲的臣仆，几个以东人，一起逃往埃及。
But Hadad fled, he and some Edomite men from among his father's servants with him, and went into Egypt; and Hadad was a young boy then.
11:18 他们从米甸起行，到了巴兰；从巴兰带着几个人，来到埃及见埃及王法老；法老给他房屋，为他派定粮食，又给他田地。
Thus they arose from Midian and went to Paran, and they took men from Paran with them and went to Egypt, to Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, who gave him a
house and appointed him a portion of food and gave him land.
11:19 哈达在法老眼前大蒙恩惠，以致法老将自己妻子的妹妹，就是王后答比匿的妹妹，赐他为妻。
And Hadad found so much favor in the sight of Pharaoh that Pharaoh gave him the sister of his wife, the sister of Tahpenes the queen, as his wife.
11:20 答比匿的妹妹给哈达生了儿子基努拔；答比匿使基努拔在法老的宫里断奶，基努拔就在法老的宫里，在法老的众子中生活。
And the sister of Tahpenes bore him Genubath his son, and Tahpenes weaned him in Pharaoh's house, and Genubath was in Pharaoh's house among
Pharaoh's sons.
11:21 哈达在埃及听见大卫与他列祖同睡，元帅约押也死了，就对法老说，求你让我离开，往我本地去。
And when Hadad heard in Egypt that David slept with his fathers and that Joab the captain of the army was dead, Hadad said to Pharaoh, Let me depart that I
may go to my own land.
11:22 法老对他说，你在我这里有什么缺乏，竟想要往你本地去呢？他说，我没有缺乏什么，只是求你让我离去。
But Pharaoh said to him, But what have you lacked while with me that now you are seeking to go to your own land? And he said, Nothing; only let me depart.
11:23 神又使以利亚大的儿子利逊兴起，作所罗门的对头；他先前逃避主人琐巴王哈大底谢。
And God raised up another adversary to him, Rezon the son of Eliada, who had fled from his lord, Hadadezer the king of Zobah.
11:24 大卫击杀琐巴人的时候，利逊招聚了一群人在身边，自己作他们的头目，往大马色居住，在那里作王。
353
And he gathered men to himself and became the captain of the band when David slew those of Zobah; and they went to Damascus and dwelt there; and they
reigned in Damascus.
11:25 所罗门在世的一切日子，哈达为患之外，利逊也作以色列的对头；他恨恶以色列人，且作了亚兰人的王。
And he was an adversary to Israel all the days of Solomon in addition to the evil that Hadad did; and he abhorred Israel and reigned over Syria.
11:26 所罗门的臣仆，尼八的儿子耶罗波安也举手攻击王；他是洗利达的以法莲人，他母亲是寡妇，名叫洗鲁阿。
And Jeroboam the son of Nebat, an Ephraimite of Zeredah, a servant of Solomon, whose mother's name was Zeruah, also a widow, lifted up his hand against
the king.
11:27 他举手攻击王的缘故是这样：先前所罗门建造米罗，修补他父亲大卫的城的破口。
And this was the reason he lifted up his hand against the king: Solomon was building the Millo, closing up the breach of the city of David his father.
11:28 耶罗波安是个有才能的人；所罗门见这少年人殷勤，就派他监管约瑟家一切服苦役的人。
And the man Jeroboam was an able man; and Solomon saw that the young man was industrious, so he set him over all the forced labor of the house of Joseph.
11:29 那时，有一次耶罗波安出了耶路撒冷，示罗人申言者亚希雅在路上遇见他。亚希雅穿着一件新衣；他们二人在田野，以外并无别人。
And at that time Jeroboam went forth from Jerusalem, and the prophet Ahijah the Shilonite found him on the way. And Ahijah was wearing a new garment, and
the two of them were alone in the field.
11:30 亚希雅拿着自己穿的那件新衣，撕成十二片，
And Ahijah laid hold of the new garment that was on him and tore it into twelve pieces.
11:31 对耶罗波安说，你给自己拿十片；因为耶和华以色列的神如此说，我必将国从所罗门手里撕去，将十个支派赐给你，
And he said to Jeroboam, Take ten pieces for yourself; for thus says Jehovah the God of Israel, I am now tearing the kingdom out of the hand of Solomon and
giving the ten tribes to you
11:32 (但因我仆人大卫，和我在以色列众支派中所选择的耶路撒冷城的缘故，所罗门仍然可以有一个支派，)
(But the one tribe will be his because of My servant David and because of Jerusalem, the city that I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel),
11:33 因为他们离弃我，敬拜西顿人的女神亚斯他录、摩押的神基抹、和亚扪人的神米勒公，没有遵行我的道路，行我眼中看为正的事，守我的律例和典
章，像他父亲大卫一样。
Because they have forsaken Me and have worshipped Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians and Chemosh the god of Moab and Milcom the god of the
children of Ammon and have not walked in My ways by doing what is upright in My sight and by keeping My statutes and My ordinances as David his father did.
11:34 但我不从他手里将全国夺去；我必使他终身为君，这是因着我所拣选的仆人大卫的缘故，因他谨守我的诫命和律例。
But I will not take the whole kingdom out of his hand, but I will make him leader all the days of his life because of David My servant, whom I chose and who kept
My commandments and My statutes.
11:35 我必从他儿子的手里将国夺去，把这国十个支派赐给你，
Yet I will take the kingdom out of his son's hand and will give it to you, that is, the ten tribes;
11:36 还将一个支派留给他的儿子，使我仆人大卫在我所选择立我名的耶路撒冷城里，在我面前一直有灯光。
And to his son I will give one tribe, that My servant David may have a lamp always before Me in Jerusalem, the city where I have chosen to put My name.
11:37 我必选取你，使你照心里一切所愿的掌权，作王治理以色列。
And I will take you, and you will reign according to all that your soul desires; and you will be king over Israel.
11:38 你若听从我一切所吩咐你的，遵行我的道路，行我眼中看为正的事，谨守我的律例和诫命，像我仆人大卫所行的，我就与你同在，为你建造稳固的
家，像我为大卫所建造的一样；我也要将以色列赐给你。
And if you listen to all that I command you and walk in My ways and do what is upright in My sight by keeping My statutes and My commandments, as David My
servant did, I will be with you and will build you a lasting house, as I built for David; and I will give you Israel.
11:39 我必因所罗门所行的这些恶，使大卫的后裔受患难，但不至于永远。
And I will afflict the seed of David because of this, but not forever.
11:40 所罗门因此想要杀耶罗波安；耶罗波安却起身逃往埃及，到了埃及王示撒那里；他就住在埃及，直到所罗门死了。
Solomon therefore sought to kill Jeroboam, but Jeroboam rose up and fled into Egypt to Shishak the king of Egypt; and he was in Egypt until the death of Solomon.
11:41 所罗门其余的事，凡他所行的和他的智慧，岂不都写在所罗门记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Solomon and all that he did as well as his wisdom, are they not written in the book of the acts of Solomon?
11:42 所罗门在耶路撒冷作全以色列的王共四十年。
And the time that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel was forty years.
11:43 所罗门与他列祖同睡，葬在他父亲大卫的城里。他儿子罗波安接续他作王。
And Solomon slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David his father. And Rehoboam his son reigned in his place.
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 12 章
12:1 罗波安往示剑去；因为以色列众人都到了示剑，要立他作王。
Then Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king.
12:2 尼八的儿子耶罗波安听见这事，(那时他仍在埃及，因他先前躲避所罗门王，逃往埃及，就住在那里；
And when Jeroboam the son of Nebat heard of it (for he was still in Egypt, where he had fled from King Solomon; and Jeroboam dwelt in Egypt;
12:3 以色列人打发人去请他来，)他就和以色列全会众都来见罗波安，对他说，
And they sent word to him and called him), Jeroboam and all the congregation of Israel came and spoke to Rehoboam, saying,
12:4 你父亲使我们负难负的轭；现在求你使你父亲要我们作的苦工，并他加在我们身上的重轭轻松些，我们就事奉你。
Your father made our yoke hard. Now therefore make the hard service of your father and his heavy yoke that he put upon us lighter, and we will serve you.
12:5 罗波安对他们说，你们暂且去三日，再来见我。民就去了。
And he said to them, Go away for another three days, then return to me. And the people went away.
12:6 罗波安的父亲所罗门在世的时候，有侍立在他面前的老年人，罗波安王和他们商议，说，你们给我出个什么主意，我好回覆这民。
Then King Rehoboam took counsel with the elders who attended Solomon his father while he was alive, saying, What counsel do you give me to return as an
answer to this people?
12:7 老年人对他说，今日你若作这民的仆人，
354
And they spoke to him, saying, If today you will be a servant to this people and serve them and answer them and speak good words to them, then they will be
your servants always.
12:8 服事他们，用好话回答他们，他们就会永远作你的仆人。王却弃绝老年人给他出的主意，反而和那些与他一同长大，在他面前侍立的少年人商议，
But he forsook the counsel of the elders with which they counseled him and took counsel with the young men who had grown up with him, who attended him.
12:9 说，这民对我说，求你使你父亲加在我们身上的轭轻松些；你们出个什么主意，我们好回覆他们呢？
And he said to them, What counsel do you give me that we may return an answer to this people who have spoken to me, saying, Lighten the yoke that your
father put upon us?
12:10 那些与他一同长大的少年人说，这民对你说，你父亲使我们负重轭，求你使我们轻松些；你要对他们如此说，我的小拇指头比我父亲的腰还粗。
And the young men who grew up with him spoke to him, saying, Thus shall you say to this people who have spoken to you, saying, Your father made our yoke
heavy, but you must make it lighter on us; thus shall you speak to them, My little finger is thicker than my father's loins.
12:11 我父亲使你们负重轭，我要加重你们的轭；我父亲用鞭子责打你们，我要用蝎子鞭责打你们。
And now, whereas my father laid a heavy yoke upon you, I will increase your yoke; my father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.
12:12 耶罗波安和众百姓照着罗波安王所说，你们第三日再来见我的那话，在第三日来了。
And Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam on the third day as the king had spoken, saying, Return to me on the third day.
12:13 王严厉的回答百姓；他弃绝了老年人所出的主意，
And the king answered the people harshly; and he forsook the counsel of the elders that they had given him
12:14 却照着少年人所出的主意对百姓说，我父亲使你们负重轭，我要加重你们的轭；我父亲用鞭子责打你们，我要用蝎子鞭责打你们。
And spoke to them according to the counsel of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, but I will increase your yoke; my father chastised you
with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.
12:15 王不肯听从百姓，因这事的转变乃出于耶和华，为要实现祂藉示罗人亚希雅对尼八的儿子耶罗波安所说的话。
So the king did not listen to the people, for this turn of events was of Jehovah that He might establish His word which Jehovah had spoken through Ahijah the
Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat.
12:16 以色列众人见王不听从他们，就回覆王说，我们在大卫身上有什么分呢？我们在耶西的儿子身上并没有产业。以色列阿，回你的帐棚去罢。大卫阿，
顾你自己的家罢。于是，以色列人都往自己的帐棚去了。
And when all Israel saw that the king would not listen to them, the people returned an answer to the king, saying, What portion do we have in David? Neither do
we have an inheritance in the son of Jesse. To your tents, O Israel. Now see to your own house, O David. And Israel went to their tents.
12:17 惟独住犹大城邑的以色列人，罗波安仍作他们的王。
But as for the children of Israel who dwelt in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them.
12:18 罗波安王差遣掌管服苦役之人的亚多兰往以色列人那里去，以色列众人就用石头打死他。罗波安王急忙上车，逃到耶路撒冷去了。
Then King Rehoboam sent Adoram, who was over the forced labor, and all Israel stoned him to death. And King Rehoboam made haste to get up into his chariot
and flee to Jerusalem.
12:19 这样，以色列人背叛大卫家，直到今日。
So Israel has rebelled against the house of David since that day.
12:20 以色列众人听见耶罗波安回来了，就打发人去请他到会众那里，立他作全以色列的王。除了犹大支派以外，没有随从大卫家的。
And when all Israel heard that Jeroboam had returned, they sent word to him and called him to the assembly; and they made him king over all Israel. There was
none who followed the house of David except the tribe of Judah alone.
12:21 罗波安来到耶路撒冷，招聚犹大全家和便雅悯支派的人，共十八万，都是挑选的战士，要与以色列家争战，好使国归回所罗门的儿子罗波安。
And when Rehoboam came to Jerusalem, he gathered all the house of Judah and the tribe of Benjamin, one hundred eighty thousand choice warriors, to wage
war with the house of Israel in order to return the kingdom to Rehoboam the son of Solomon.
12:22 但神的话临到神人示玛雅，说，
But the word of God came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying,
12:23 你去告诉所罗门的儿子犹大王罗波安，和犹大、便雅悯全家，并其余的民，说，
Speak to Rehoboam the son of Solomon, the king of Judah, and to all the house of Judah and Benjamin and to the rest of the people, saying,
12:24 耶和华如此说，你们不可上去与你们的弟兄以色列人争战。各归各家去罢；因为这事是出于我。众人就听从耶和华的话，照着耶和华的话回去了。
Thus says Jehovah, You shall not go up and wage war with your brothers the children of Israel. Every man return to his house; for this matter is of Me. So they
listened to the word of Jehovah and returned and went according to the word of Jehovah.
12:25 耶罗波安在以法莲山地建筑示剑，就住在其中；又从示剑出去，建筑毗努伊勒。
Then Jeroboam built up Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim, and he dwelt in it; and he went forth from there and built up Penuel.
12:26 耶罗波安心里说，现在这国要归大卫家了。
And Jeroboam said in his heart, Now the kingdom will return to the house of David.
12:27 这民若上去，在耶路撒冷耶和华的殿里献祭，他们的心必归向他们的主犹大王罗波安；他们必把我杀了，回到犹大王罗波安那里去。
If this people go up to make sacrifices in the house of Jehovah at Jerusalem, the heart of this people will return to their lord, to Rehoboam the king of Judah; and
they will slay me and return to Rehoboam the king of Judah.
12:28 耶罗波安王就筹画定妥，铸造了两只金牛犊，对众民说，以色列人哪，你们上耶路撒冷去，实在是难；看哪，这就是领你们出埃及地的神！
And the king took counsel and made two calves of gold. And he said to them, It is too much for you to go up to Jerusalem. Behold your gods, O Israel, who
brought you up out of the land of Egypt!
12:29 他就把牛犊一只安在伯特利，一只放在但。
And he set one in Bethel, and he put the other one in Dan.
12:30 这事就成了罪，因为百姓远到但去拜那牛犊。
And this thing became a sin; and the people went to worship the one as far as Dan.
12:31 耶罗波安造了邱坛的殿，又从那不属利未人的百姓中，立人为祭司。
And he made a house of high places and appointed priests from among the people who were not from the sons of Levi.
12:32 耶罗波安定八月十五日为节期，像在犹大的节期一样，自己上坛献祭；他在伯特利也这样向他所铸造的牛犊献祭，又将他所立邱坛的祭司安置在伯
特利。
And Jeroboam ordained a feast in the eighth month, on the fifteenth day of the month, like the feast that is in Judah, and he went up to the altar; he did likewise
at Bethel, sacrificing to the calves that he had made. And he placed in Bethel the priests of the high places that he had made.
355
12:33 他在八月十五日，就是他私心所虚构之节期的月日，上他在伯特利所造的坛献祭；他为以色列人定了节期，并且上坛烧香。
And he went up to the altar that he had made at Bethel on the fifteenth day, in the eighth month, that is, the month he had devised in his own heart; and he
ordained a feast for the children of Israel and went up to the altar to burn incense.
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 13 章
13:1 那时，有一个神人凭耶和华的话从犹大来到伯特利；耶罗波安正站在坛旁要烧香。
And at that moment there came a man of God from Judah by the word of Jehovah to Bethel while Jeroboam was standing at the altar to burn incense.
13:2 神人凭耶和华的话向坛呼叫，说，坛哪，坛哪，耶和华如此说，看哪，大卫家必生一个儿子，名叫约西亚；他必将邱坛的祭司，就是在你上面烧香的，
宰杀在你上面作祭物，将人的骨头烧在你上面。
And he cried out against the altar by the word of Jehovah and said, Altar, O altar, thus says Jehovah: Behold, a son shall be born to the house of David, Josiah by
name; and he will sacrifice upon you the priests of the high places who burn incense upon you, and men's bones will they burn upon you.
13:3 当日，神人设个兆头，说，这是耶和华所说的兆头：看哪，这坛必破裂，坛上的灰必倾撒。
And he gave a sign that day, saying, This is the sign that Jehovah has spoken: The altar here will be torn apart, and the ashes that are upon it will be poured out.
13:4 耶罗波安王听见神人向伯特利的坛所呼叫的话，就从坛上伸手，说，拿住他！王向神人所伸的手就枯干了，不能收回；
And when the king heard the word of the man of God that he cried out against the altar in Bethel, Jeroboam stretched out his hand from over the altar, saying,
Lay hold of him! And his hand, which he had stretched out against him, withered, and he could not draw it back to himself.
13:5 坛也破裂了，灰从坛上倾撒了，正如神人凭耶和华的话所设的兆头。
And the altar was torn apart, and the ashes were poured forth from the altar, according to the sign that the man of God had given by the word of Jehovah.
13:6 王回应神人说，请你为我恳求耶和华你的神施恩惠，为我祷告，使我的手能收回。于是神人恳求耶和华施恩惠，王的手就能收回，像先前一样。
And the king responded and said to the man of God, Entreat Jehovah your God, I beg you, and intercede for me that my hand may be restored to me. And the
man of God entreated Jehovah, and the king's hand was restored to him as it had been formerly.
13:7 王对神人说，请你同我到宫里去吃饭，加添心力，我也必给你赏赐。
Then the king said to the man of God, Come home with me, and have something to eat; and I will give you a gift.
13:8 但神人对王说，你就是把你的家产一半给我，我也不同你进去，也不在这地方吃饭喝水；
But the man of God said to the king, If you gave me half your household, I would not go with you; and I will not eat food nor drink water in this place;
13:9 因为有耶和华的话这样嘱咐我说，不可吃饭喝水，也不可从你去的原路回来。
For thus was I commanded by the word of Jehovah, saying, You shall not eat food nor drink water, nor shall you return by the way that you came.
13:10 于是神人从别的路回去，不从他来伯特利的原路回去。
So he went by another way and did not return by the way that he came to Bethel.
13:11 有一个老申言者住在伯特利，他儿子们来，将神人当日在伯特利所行的一切事告诉他；神人向王所说的话，他们也都告诉了父亲。
Now there was a certain old prophet dwelling in Bethel. And his sons came and related to him all the things that the man of God had done that day in Bethel; the
words that he had spoken to the king, they also related to their father.
13:12 父亲问他们说，神人从那条路去了呢？儿子们就告诉他；原来他们看见那从犹大来的神人所去的路。
And their father said to them, Which way did he go? Now his sons had seen which way the man of God, who came from Judah, had gone.
13:13 老申言者就对他儿子们说，你们为我备驴。他们备好了驴，他就骑上，
And he said to his sons, Saddle the donkey for me. So they saddled the donkey for him, and he rode on it.
13:14 去追赶神人，遇见他坐在橡树底下，就问他说，你是从犹大来的神人不是？他说，是。
And he went after the man of God and found him sitting under a terebinth. And he said to him, Are you the man of God who came from Judah? And he said, I
am.
13:15 老申言者对他说，请你同我到家里去吃饭。
And he said to him, Come home with me, and eat some food.
13:16 但神人说，我不可同你回去进你的家，也不可在这里同你吃饭喝水；
But he said, I cannot return with you and go with you; neither will I eat food nor drink water with you in this place.
13:17 因为有耶和华的话对我说，你在那里不可吃饭喝水，也不可从你去的原路回来。
For I was told by the word of Jehovah, You shall not eat food nor drink water there, nor shall you return by going on the way that you came there.
13:18 老申言者对他说，我也是申言者，和你一样；有天使凭耶和华的话对我说，你去把他带回你的家，叫他吃饭喝水。这都是老申言者诓哄他。
And the old man said, I also am a prophet like you, and an angel has spoken to me by the word of Jehovah, saying, Bring him back with you to your house that
he may eat food and drink water. He lied to him.
13:19 于是神人同老申言者回去，在他家里吃饭喝水。
So he returned with him and ate food in his house and drank water.
13:20 二人坐席的时候，耶和华的话临到那带神人回来的申言者，
And while they were sitting at the table, the word of Jehovah came to the prophet who brought him back;
13:21 他就对那从犹大来的神人喊着说，耶和华如此说，你既违背耶和华的话，不遵守耶和华你神给你的命令，
And he cried out to the man of God who came from Judah, saying, Thus says Jehovah, Because you have rebelled against the word of Jehovah and did not keep
the command that Jehovah your God commanded you,
13:22 反倒回来，在耶和华告诉你不可吃饭喝水的地方吃饭喝水；你的尸身不得入你列祖的坟墓。
But returned and ate food and drank water in the place concerning which He said to you, Do not eat food and do not drink water; your corpse shall not come to
the grave of your fathers.
13:23 吃饭喝水之后，老申言者为所带回来的申言者备驴。
And after he had eaten food and had drunk water, the old man saddled the donkey for him, that is, for the prophet whom he had brought back.
13:24 他就去了，在路上有狮子遇见他，将他咬死。他的尸身抛在路上，驴站在尸身旁边，
And as he went, a lion met him on the way and killed him. And his corpse was thrown on the road, and the donkey stood beside it; the lion stood beside the
corpse also.
13:25 狮子也站在尸身旁边。看哪，有些人从那里经过，看见尸身抛在路上，狮子站在尸身旁边，就来到老申言者所住的城里述说这事。
356
And some men soon passed by and saw the corpse thrown on the road and the lion standing beside the corpse, and they went and told it in the city where the
old prophet dwelt.
13:26 那把神人从路上带回来的申言者听见这事，就说，这是那违背了耶和华话的神人，所以耶和华把他交给狮子；狮子撕裂他，咬死他，是照着耶和华
对他所说的话。
And when the prophet who had brought him back from the way heard it, he said, It is the man of God, who rebelled against the word of Jehovah; and Jehovah
has given him to the lion, which tore him apart and killed him, according to the word of Jehovah which He spoke to him.
13:27 老申言者就对他儿子们说，你们为我备驴；他们就备了驴。
Then he spoke to his sons, saying, Saddle the donkey for me; and they saddled it.
13:28 他去了，看见神人的尸身抛在路上，驴和狮子站在尸身旁边，狮子却没有吃尸身，也没有把驴撕裂。
And he went and found his corpse thrown on the road and the donkey and the lion standing beside the corpse; the lion had not eaten the corpse, nor had it torn
the donkey apart.
13:29 老申言者就把神人的尸身抱起来，驮在驴上，带回自己的城里，要为他哀哭，葬埋他；
And the prophet took up the corpse of the man of God and laid it on the donkey and brought it back; and it was brought to the city of the old prophet for
mourning and for burial.
13:30 就把他的尸身安放在自己的坟墓里，为他哀哭，说，哀哉，我兄弟阿！
And he laid his corpse in his own grave and mourned over him, saying, Alas, my brother!
13:31 安葬之后，老申言者对他儿子们说，我死了，你们要把我葬在葬神人的坟墓里，把我的尸骨靠着他的尸骨安放。
And after he had buried him, he spoke to his sons, saying, When I die, bury me in the grave where the man of God is buried; beside his bones lay my bones.
13:32 因为他凭耶和华的话，指着伯特利的坛和撒玛利亚各城邱坛之殿所喊的话，必定应验。
For the word that he cried out by the word of Jehovah against the altar that is in Bethel and against all the houses of the high places that are in the cities of
Samaria shall surely come to pass.
13:33 这事以后，耶罗波安仍不离开他的恶道，又从百姓中立人为邱坛的祭司；凡愿意的，他都使他承接圣职，成为邱坛的祭司。
After this matter Jeroboam did not turn from his evil way, but he again made priests for the high places from among the people; whoever desired it, he
consecrated to be priests of the high places.
13:34 这事就成了耶罗波安家的罪，甚至叫他的家从地上除灭了。
And this matter became a sin to the house of Jeroboam, so as even to cut it off and destroy it from the face of the earth.
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 14 章
14:1 那时，耶罗波安的儿子亚比雅病了。
At that time Abijah the son of Jeroboam became ill.
14:2 耶罗波安对他的妻子说，你起来改装，使人不知道你是耶罗波安的妻子，往示罗去；在那里有申言者亚希雅，他曾说到我必作这民的王。
And Jeroboam said to his wife, Rise up now, and disguise yourself so that no one will recognize that you are the wife of Jeroboam, and go to Shiloh. Ahijah the
prophet is there; it is he who spoke concerning me, that I should be king over this people.
14:3 现在你要手中带着十个饼、一些饼干、和一瓶蜜去见他，他必告诉你这童子将要怎样。
And take in your hand ten loaves and some cakes and a cruse of honey, and go to him. He will tell you what will happen to the boy.
14:4 耶罗波安的妻子就这样行，起身往示罗去，到了亚希雅的家。亚希雅因年纪老迈，眼目发直，不能看见。
And Jeroboam's wife did so; that is, she rose up and went to Shiloh, and she came to the house of Ahijah. Now Ahijah could not see, for his eyes were fixed
because of his age.
14:5 但耶和华先对亚希雅说，看哪，耶罗波安的妻子要来，为她的儿子向你求话，因她儿子病了；你当如此如此告诉她。她进来的时候必装作别的妇人。
But Jehovah said to Ahijah, The wife of Jeroboam has now come to seek a word from you concerning her son, for he is ill. Thus and thus shall you speak to her.
And it will be that when she comes in, she will pretend to be another woman.
14:6 她刚进门口，亚希雅听见她脚步的响声，就说，耶罗波安的妻子，进来罢。你为何装作别的妇人呢？我奉差遣将严厉的话告诉你。
So when Ahijah heard the sound of her footsteps as she entered through the door, he said, Come in, wife of Jeroboam. Why do you pretend to be another
woman? For I have a hard message for you.
14:7 你去告诉耶罗波安，耶和华以色列的神如此说，我从民中将你高举，立你作我民以色列的领袖，
Go and tell Jeroboam, Thus says Jehovah the God of Israel, Because I exalted you from among the people and made you ruler over My people Israel,
14:8 将国从大卫家撕去赐给你；你却不像我仆人大卫那样，遵守我的诫命，全心跟从我，只行我眼中看为正的事，
And I tore away the kingdom from the house of David and gave it to you; and yet you have not been like My servant David, who kept My commandments and
who followed Me with all his heart, doing only what was upright in My sight,
14:9 反倒行恶，比那些在你以先的更甚，又去为自己造了别神，铸了偶像，惹我发怒，将我丢在背后。
But you have done more evil than all who were before you and have gone and made for yourself other gods and idols, so as to provoke Me to anger; and you
have cast Me behind your back -
14:10 因此，我必使灾祸临到耶罗波安的家，将属耶罗波安的男丁，无论困住的、自由的，都从以色列中剪除；我必除灭耶罗波安家的后代，如人烧掉粪
土，直到烧尽一般。
Because of this then, I am now bringing evil upon the house of Jeroboam, and I will cut off from Jeroboam every male, bond and free, in Israel; and I will sweep
up after the house of Jeroboam as a man might sweep up dung until it is all gone.
14:11 凡属耶罗波安的人，死在城中的必被狗吃，死在田野的必被空中的鸟吃；这是耶和华说的。
Him of Jeroboam's who dies in the city, the dogs will eat; and him who dies in the field, the birds of heaven will eat; for Jehovah has spoken it.
14:12 所以你起身往你家去罢；你的脚一进城，你的孩子就必死了。
Rise up then, and go to your house: When your feet enter the city, the child will die.
14:13 以色列众人必为他哀哭，将他葬埋；凡属耶罗波安的人，惟有他得入坟墓，因为在耶罗波安的家中，只见他对耶和华以色列的神有可悦之处。
And all Israel will mourn for him and bury him, for he alone of Jeroboam's will go into the grave, because in him some good thing toward Jehovah the God of
Israel was found among the house of Jeroboam.
14:14 耶和华必为自己兴起一王治理以色列；就在今日，甚至就是现在，他必剪除耶罗波安的家。
357
And Jehovah will raise up for Himself a king over Israel who will cut off the house of Jeroboam this day and even now.
14:15 耶和华必击打以色列人，使他们摇动，像水中的芦苇一般；又将以色列人从耶和华赐给他们列祖的这美地上拔出来，分散在大河那边，因为他们作
木像，惹耶和华发怒。
And Jehovah will strike Israel, as a reed is shaken in the water; and He will uproot Israel out of this good land, which He gave to their fathers, and will scatter
them beyond the River, because they made their Asherahs, provoking Jehovah to anger.
14:16 因耶罗波安所犯、并使以色列人犯罪的罪，耶和华必将以色列人丢弃。
And He will give Israel up on account of the sins of Jeroboam, by which he sinned and by which he caused Israel to sin.
14:17 耶罗波安的妻子起身离去，到了得撒，刚到家的门槛，童子就死了。
And Jeroboam's wife rose up and departed, and she came to Tirzah. As she came to the threshold of the house, the boy died.
14:18 以色列众人将他葬埋，为他哀哭，正如耶和华藉他仆人申言者亚希雅所说的话。
And all Israel buried him and mourned for him according to the word of Jehovah, which He spoke through His servant Ahijah the prophet.
14:19 耶罗波安其余的事，他怎样争战，怎样作王，都写在以色列诸王记上。
And the rest of the acts of Jeroboam, how he waged war and how he reigned, they are there written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
14:20 耶罗波安作王的年日有二十二年；他就与他列祖同睡。他儿子拿答接续他作王。
And the time that Jeroboam reigned was twenty-two years; and he slept with his fathers. And Nadab his son reigned in his place.
14:21 所罗门的儿子罗波安作犹大王。他登基的时候年四十一岁，在耶路撒冷，就是耶和华从以色列众支派中所选择立祂名的城，作王十七年。罗波安的
母亲名叫拿玛，是亚扪人。
And Rehoboam the son of Solomon reigned in Judah. Rehoboam was forty- one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in
Jerusalem, the city where Jehovah had chosen, out of all the tribes of Israel, to put His name. And his mother's name was Naamah the Ammonitess.
14:22 犹大人行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，因他们所犯的罪，触动祂的妒忌，比他们列祖所行的一切更甚。
And Judah did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah and provoked Him to jealousy because of the sins which they committed, above all the sins which their
fathers had committed.
14:23 他们也在各高冈上，各青翠树下，为自己筑邱坛，立柱像和木像。
And they also built for themselves high places and pillars and Asherahs on every high hill and under every flourishing tree,
14:24 犹大地也有娈童。犹大人照着耶和华在以色列人面前所赶出之外邦人一切可憎恶的事而行。
And there were also male cult prostitutes in the land. They acted according to all the abominations of the nations that Jehovah had dispossessed before the
children of Israel.
14:25 罗波安王第五年，埃及王示撒上来攻打耶路撒冷，
Then in the fifth year of King Rehoboam, Shishak the king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem.
14:26 夺取耶和华殿和王宫里的宝物，尽都夺走了；又夺去所罗门制造的一切金盾牌。
And he took away the treasures of the house of Jehovah and the treasures of the king's house; indeed he took away all. And he took away all the shields of gold
that Solomon had made.
14:27 罗波安王制造铜盾牌代替那些金盾牌，交在看守王宫门的护卫长手中保管。
And King Rehoboam made shields of bronze in their place and committed them into the hands of the captains of the guard, who kept the door of the king's
house.
14:28 王每逢进耶和华的殿，护卫兵就拿这些盾牌，随后仍将盾牌送回护卫房里。
And whenever the king went into the house of Jehovah, the guards carried them and returned them to the guardroom.
14:29 罗波安其余的事，凡他所行的，岂不都写在犹大诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Rehoboam and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
14:30 罗波安与耶罗波安之间常有争战。
And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam continually.
14:31 罗波安与他列祖同睡，与他列祖一同葬在大卫城里。他母亲名叫拿玛，是亚扪人。他儿子亚比央接续他作王。
And Rehoboam slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David. And his mother's name was Naamah the Ammonitess. And Abijam his
son reigned in his place.
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 15 章
15:1 尼八的儿子耶罗波安王十八年，亚比央登基作犹大王，
And in the eighteenth year of King Jeroboam the son of Nebat, Abijam began to reign over Judah.
15:2 在耶路撒冷作王三年。他母亲名叫玛迦，是押比沙龙的女儿。
He reigned three years in Jerusalem, and his mother's name was Maacah, the daughter of Abishalom.
15:3 亚比央行他父亲在他以前所犯的一切罪；他的心不像他祖大卫的心那样，完全向着耶和华他的神。
And he walked in all the sins of his father, which he had done before him; and his heart was not perfect with Jehovah his God like the heart of David his father.
15:4 然而耶和华他的神因大卫的缘故，仍使他在耶路撒冷有灯光，兴起他儿子接续他作王，坚立耶路撒冷；
Yet for David's sake Jehovah his God gave him a lamp in Jerusalem, raising up his son after him and establishing Jerusalem;
15:5 因为大卫除了赫人乌利亚那件事，都是行耶和华眼中看为正的事，在世的日子没有偏离耶和华一切所吩咐他的。
Because David did what was upright in the sight of Jehovah and did not turn aside from anything that He had commanded him all the days of his life, except in
the matter of Uriah the Hittite.
15:6 罗波安在世的日子，与耶罗波安之间常有争战。
And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days of his life.
15:7 亚比央其余的事，凡他所行的，岂不都写在犹大诸王记上么？亚比央与耶罗波安之间常有争战。
And the rest of the acts of Abijam and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? And there was war between Abijam
and Jeroboam.
15:8 亚比央与他列祖同睡，人将他葬在大卫城里。他儿子亚撒接续他作王。
And Abijam slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David. And Asa his son reigned in his place.
358
15:9 以色列王耶罗波安二十年，亚撒登基作犹大王，
And in the twentieth year of Jeroboam the king of Israel, Asa began to reign as king in Judah.
15:10 在耶路撒冷作王四十一年。他祖母名叫玛迦，是押比沙龙的女儿。
And he reigned forty-one years in Jerusalem, and his mother's name was Maacah, the daughter of Abishalom.
15:11 亚撒像他祖大卫一样，行耶和华眼中看为正的事。
And Asa did what was upright in the sight of Jehovah, as David his father had done.
15:12 他从犹大地除去娈童，又除掉他列祖所造的一切偶像；
And he put away the male cult prostitutes out of the land and removed all the idols that his fathers had made.
15:13 并且废了他祖母玛迦太后的位，因她为亚舍拉造了可憎的像。亚撒砍下她所造可憎的像，烧在汲沦溪边，
And he also removed Maacah his mother from being queen mother because she had made an abominable image for Asherah. And Asa cut down her
abominable image and burned it at the brook Kidron.
15:14 但是邱坛还没有废去；不过亚撒的心一生都纯全的向着耶和华。
But the high places were not removed; otherwise the heart of Asa was perfect with Jehovah all his days.
15:15 亚撒将他父亲所分别为圣，与自己所分别为圣的金银和器皿，都奉到耶和华的殿里。
And he brought into the house of Jehovah the things his father had sanctified and the things he sanctified, silver and gold and vessels.
15:16 亚撒和以色列王巴沙在世的日子，他们之间常有争战。
And there was war between Asa and Baasha the king of Israel all their days.
15:17 以色列王巴沙上来攻击犹大；他修筑拉玛，不许人从犹大王亚撒那里出入。
And Baasha the king of Israel went up against Judah; and he built Ramah to prevent anyone from going out or coming in to Asa the king of Judah.
15:18 于是亚撒将耶和华殿和王宫府库里所剩下的金银，都交在他臣仆手中，打发他们往住大马色的亚兰王希旬的孙子，他伯利们的儿子便哈达那里去，
说，
And Asa took all the silver and gold that was left among the treasures of the house of Jehovah as well as the treasures of the king's house, and gave them into
the hands of his servants. And King Asa sent them forth to Ben-hadad the son of Tabrimmon, the son of Hezion, the king of Syria, who dwelt in Damascus,
saying,
15:19 你父亲与我父亲立约，我也与你立约。现在我将金银送你为礼物，你去废掉你与以色列王巴沙所立的约，使他离开我。
There is an alliance between me and you, between my father and your father. I am now sending you a present of silver and gold; go and break your alliance with
Baasha the king of Israel, so that he goes away from me.
15:20 便哈达听从亚撒王的话，派他的军长去攻击以色列的城邑；他们就攻破以云、但、亚伯伯玛迦、全基尼烈、并全拿弗他利地。
And Ben-hadad listened to King Asa and sent the captains of forces that he had against the cities of Israel, and he struck Ijon and Dan and Abel-beth-maacah
and all Chinneroth with all the land of Naphtali.
15:21 巴沙听见，就停工不修筑拉玛，仍住在得撒。
And when Baasha heard this, he stopped building Ramah and dwelt in Tirzah.
15:22 于是亚撒王通告犹大众人，不准一人免役，吩咐他们将巴沙修筑拉玛所用的石头、木头都运走；亚撒王就用这些修筑便雅悯的迦巴和米斯巴。
Then King Asa made a proclamation to all Judah; no one was exempt. And they carried away the stones of Ramah and its timber, with which Baasha had built it;
and King Asa built with these Geba of Benjamin and Mizpah.
15:23 亚撒其余一切的事，他一切的勇力，他所行的一切，并他所建筑的城邑，岂不都写在犹大诸王记上么？只是亚撒年老的时候，脚患了病。
And the rest of all the acts of Asa and all his might and all that he did and the cities that he built, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of
Judah? Yet in the time of his old age he was diseased in his feet.
15:24 亚撒与他列祖同睡，与他列祖一同葬在他祖大卫的城里。他儿子约沙法接续他作王。
And Asa slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father. And Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his place.
15:25 犹大王亚撒第二年，耶罗波安的儿子拿答登基作以色列王，他作以色列王共二年。
And Nadab the son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in the second year of Asa the king of Judah, and he reigned over Israel two years.
15:26 拿答行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，行他父亲所行的道路，行在他父亲使以色列人犯罪的那罪中。
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah and walked in the way of his father and in his sin by which he caused Israel to sin.
15:27 以萨迦家亚希雅的儿子巴沙谋叛拿答，在非利士人的基比顿杀了他；那时拿答和以色列众人正围困基比顿。
And Baasha the son of Ahijah, of the house of Issachar, conspired against him; and Baasha struck him down in Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines,
while Nadab and all Israel were laying siege to Gibbethon.
15:28 在犹大王亚撒第三年，巴沙杀了他，篡了他的位。
And Baasha killed him in the third year of Asa the king of Judah, and he reigned in his place.
15:29 巴沙一作王，就杀了耶罗波安的全家；凡属耶罗波安有气息的，他没有留下一个，直到把他们都灭尽了，正如耶和华藉祂仆人示罗人亚希雅所说的
话。
And as soon as he became king, he struck down all the house of Jeroboam; he left to Jeroboam not one who had breath, until he had destroyed them, according
to the word of Jehovah, which He spoke through His servant Ahijah the Shilonite,
15:30 这是因耶罗波安所犯、并使以色列人犯罪的罪，因他惹动了耶和华以色列神的怒气。
Because of the sins of Jeroboam, which he committed and by which he caused Israel to sin, because of his provocation by which he provoked Jehovah the God
of Israel to anger.
15:31 拿答其余的事，凡他所行的，岂不都写在以色列诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Nadab and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
15:32 亚撒和以色列王巴沙在世的日子，他们之间常有争战。
And there was war between Asa and Baasha the king of Israel all their days.
15:33 犹大王亚撒第三年，亚希雅的儿子巴沙在得撒登基，作全以色列的王共二十四年。
In the third year of Asa the king of Judah, Baasha the son of Ahijah began to reign over all Israel in Tirzah for twenty- four years.
15:34 他行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，行耶罗波安所行的道路，行在他使以色列人犯罪的那罪中。
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah and walked in the way of Jeroboam and in his sin by which he caused Israel to sin.
359
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 16 章
16:1 耶和华的话临到哈拿尼的儿子耶户，责备巴沙，说，
And the word of Jehovah came to Jehu the son of Hanani against Baasha, saying,
16:2 我既从尘土中提拔你，立你作我民以色列的领袖，你竟行耶罗波安所行的道路，使我民以色列犯罪，以他们的罪惹我发怒；
Because I exalted you out of the dust and made you a leader over My people Israel, yet you have walked in the way of Jeroboam and have caused My people
Israel to sin, thereby provoking Me to anger by their sins;
16:3 看哪，我必除灭巴沙和他家的后代，我必使你的家像尼八的儿子耶罗波安的家一样。
I am now sweeping up after Baasha and after his house, and I will make your house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat.
16:4 属巴沙的人，死在城中的必被狗吃，死在田野的必被空中的鸟吃。
Him of Baasha who dies in the city, the dogs will eat; and him who dies in the field, the birds of heaven will eat.
16:5 巴沙其余的事，凡他所行的，和他的勇力，岂不都写在以色列诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Baasha and what he did and his might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
16:6 巴沙与他列祖同睡，葬在得撒。他儿子以拉接续他作王。
And Baasha slept with his fathers and was buried in Tirzah. And Elah his son reigned in his place.
16:7 耶和华的话也借着哈拿尼的儿子，申言者耶户，来责备巴沙和他的家，因他行耶和华眼中看为恶的一切事，以他手所作的惹耶和华发怒，像耶罗波安
的家一样，又因他杀了耶罗波安的家。
Moreover through the prophet Jehu the son of Hanani the word of Jehovah came against Baasha and against his house, both because of all the evil that he did
in the sight of Jehovah, provoking Him to anger with the work of his hands and by being like the house of Jeroboam, and because he struck it down.
16:8 犹大王亚撒二十六年，巴沙的儿子以拉在得撒登基，作以色列王共二年。
In the twenty-sixth year of Asa the king of Judah Elah the son of Baasha began to reign over Israel in Tirzah for two years.
16:9 有管理他一半战车的臣子心利与人同谋背叛他。那时他在得撒，在得撒家宰亚杂家里喝醉了，
And his servant Zimri, the captain of half his chariots, conspired against him. While he was in Tirzah, drinking himself drunk in the house of Arza, who was over
the household in Tirzah,
16:10 心利进去击杀他，把他杀死，篡了他的位；这是犹大王亚撒二十七年的事。
Zimri came in and struck him down and killed him, in the twenty-seventh year of Asa the king of Judah; and he reigned in his place.
16:11 心利一登基坐王位，就杀了巴沙的全家，连他的亲属、朋友，也没有留下一个男丁。
And as soon as he began to reign, just as he sat on his throne, he struck down all the house of Baasha; there was not a male left to him, neither kinsman nor
friend.
16:12 心利这样毁灭巴沙的全家，正如耶和华藉申言者耶户责备巴沙的话；
Thus Zimri destroyed all the house of Baasha according to the word of Jehovah, which He spoke against Baasha through Jehu the prophet,
16:13 这是因巴沙和他儿子以拉所犯，并使以色列人犯罪的一切罪，就是以他们的虚无之物惹耶和华以色列的神发怒。
Because of all the sins of Baasha and the sins of Elah his son, which they committed and by which they caused Israel to sin, thereby provoking Jehovah the God
of Israel to anger with their idols.
16:14 以拉其余的事，凡他所行的，岂不都写在以色列诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Elah and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
16:15 犹大王亚撒二十七年，心利在得撒作王七日。那时民正安营围攻属非利士人的基比顿。
In the twenty-seventh year of Asa the king of Judah Zimri began to reign for seven days in Tirzah. And the people were encamped against Gibbethon, which
belonged to the Philistines.
16:16 在那里安营的民听说心利结党背叛，又杀了王，以色列众人当日就在营中立元帅暗利作以色列王。
And when the people who were encamped there heard it said, Zimri has conspired and even struck down the king, all Israel made Omri, the captain of the army,
king over Israel that day in the camp.
16:17 暗利和跟随他的以色列众人，从基比顿上去，围困得撒。
And Omri went up, and all Israel with him, from Gibbethon, and they besieged Tirzah.
16:18 心利见城被攻取，就进了王宫的卫所，放火焚烧王宫，自焚而死；
And when Zimri saw that the city had been taken, he went up to the citadel of the king's house and burned the king's house over him with fire and died,
16:19 这是因他犯罪，行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，行耶罗波安所行的道路，行在耶罗波安所犯，使以色列人犯罪的那罪中。
Because of his sins that he committed by doing what was evil in the sight of Jehovah, walking in the way of Jeroboam and in his sin which he did, causing Israel
to sin.
16:20 心利其余的事，和他结党背叛的情形，岂不都写在以色列诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Zimri and his conspiracy that he conspired, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
16:21 那时，以色列民分为两半：一半随从基纳的儿子提比尼，要立他作王；一半随从暗利。
At that time the people of Israel were divided into two: Half of the people went after Tibni the son of Ginath, making him king, and half after Omri.
16:22 但随从暗利的民，胜过随从基纳的儿子提比尼的民；提比尼死了，暗利就作了王。
But the people who followed Omri prevailed over the people who followed Tibni the son of Ginath; and Tibni died, and Omri began to reign.
16:23 犹大王亚撒三十一年，暗利登基作以色列王共十二年；他在得撒作王六年。
In the thirty-first year of Asa the king of Judah Omri began to reign over Israel for twelve years; he reigned six years in Tirzah.
16:24 暗利用二他连得银子，向撒玛买了撒玛利亚山，在山上造城，就按着山的原主撒玛的名，给所造的城起名叫撒玛利亚。
And he bought the hill of Samaria from Shemer for two talents of silver; and he built upon the hill and called the name of the city that he built Samaria, after the
name of Shemer, the owner of the hill.
16:25 暗利行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，比他以前的诸王作恶更甚。
And Omri did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah and was more evil than all who were before him.
16:26 他行了尼八的儿子耶罗波安所行的一切道路，行在耶罗波安使以色列人犯罪的那罪中，就是以他们的虚无之物惹耶和华以色列的神发怒。
And he went in all the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat and in his sin by which he caused Israel to sin, thereby provoking Jehovah the God of Israel to anger
with their idols.
16:27 暗利其余所行的事，和他所显出的勇力，岂不都写在以色列诸王记上么？暗利与他列祖同睡，葬在撒玛利亚。
360
And the rest of the acts of Omri that he did and his might that he showed, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
16:28 他儿子亚哈接续他作王。
And Omri slept with his fathers and was buried in Samaria. And Ahab his son reigned in his place.
16:29 犹大王亚撒三十八年，暗利的儿子亚哈登基作了以色列王。暗利的儿子亚哈，在撒玛利亚作以色列王二十二年。
And Ahab the son of Omri began to reign over Israel in the thirty-eighth year of Asa the king of Judah. And Ahab the son of Omri reigned over Israel in Samaria
twenty-two years.
16:30 暗利的儿子亚哈，行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，比他以前的诸王更甚。
And Ahab the son of Omri did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah, more than all who were before him.
16:31 他行在尼八的儿子耶罗波安的罪中，还以为轻，又娶了西顿人的王谒巴力的女儿耶洗别为妻，去事奉敬拜巴力，
And as if it were a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, he took as his wife Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal the king of the
Sidonians; and he went and served Baal and worshipped him.
16:32 在撒玛利亚建造巴力的庙，在庙里为巴力立了坛。
And he raised up an altar to Baal in the house of Baal, which he had built in Samaria.
16:33 亚哈又造亚舍拉像，他所行的惹耶和华以色列神的怒气，比他以前的以色列诸王更甚。
And Ahab made the Asherah. And Ahab did more to provoke Jehovah the God of Israel to anger than all the kings of Israel who had been before him.
16:34 亚哈在位的日子，有伯特利人希伊勒重修耶利哥城；他立根基的时候，丧了长子亚比兰；安门的时候，丧了幼子西割，正如耶和华藉嫩的儿子约书
亚所说的话。
In his days Hiel the Bethelite built Jericho. He laid its foundations at the cost of Abiram his firstborn, and he set up its gates at the cost of Segub his youngest son,
according to the word of Jehovah, which He spoke through Joshua the son of Nun.
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 17 章
17:1 基列寄居的提斯比人以利亚对亚哈说，我指着永活的耶和华，就是我侍立在祂面前以色列的神起誓，这几年除非凭我的话，天必不降露，不下雨。
And Elijah the Tishbite, from among the inhabitants of Gilead, said to Ahab, As Jehovah the God of Israel lives, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor
rain during these years, except by my word.
17:2 耶和华的话临到以利亚说，
And the word of Jehovah came to him, saying,
17:3 你离开这里往东去，藏在约但河前的基立溪旁。
Go from here and turn eastward, and hide yourself by the brook Cherith, which is before the Jordan.
17:4 你要喝那溪里的水，我已吩咐乌鸦在那里供养你。
And you shall drink from the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to feed you there.
17:5 以利亚就去，照着耶和华的话行了；他去住在约但河前的基立溪旁。
And he went and did according to the word of Jehovah; that is, he went and stayed by the brook Cherith, which is before the Jordan.
17:6 乌鸦早晨给他叼饼和肉来，晚上也给他叼饼和肉来；他又喝那溪里的水。
And the ravens would bring him bread and meat in the morning and bread and meat in the evening; and he drank from the brook.
17:7 过了些日子，溪水干了，因为那地没有下雨。
Then after a while the brook dried up, for there had been no rain in the land.
17:8 耶和华的话临到他，说，
And the word of Jehovah came to him, saying,
17:9 你起身往西顿的撒勒法去，住在那里；我已吩咐那里的一个寡妇供养你。
Rise up and go to Zarephath, which belongs to Zidon, and stay there. I have just commanded a widow there to keep you fed.
17:10 以利亚就起身往撒勒法去；到了城门口，见有一个寡妇在那里捡柴。以利亚呼叫她，说，求你用器皿取点水来给我喝。
And he rose up and went to Zarephath. And when he came to the entrance of the city, a widow was there gathering sticks. And he called to her and said, I beg
you, bring me a little water in a vessel, that I may drink.
17:11 她去取水的时候，以利亚又呼叫她，说，求你带点饼来给我。
And she went to get it. Then he called to her and said, I beg you, bring me a piece of bread in your hand.
17:12 她说，我指着永活的耶和华你的神起誓，我没有饼，坛内只有一把面，瓶里只有一点油；我现在捡两根柴，要回去为我和我儿子作饼；我们吃了，
就死了罢。
And she said, As Jehovah your God lives, I have nothing baked, but only a handful of meal in a barrel and a little oil in a jar; and I am now gathering a few sticks
that I may go and prepare it for me and my son, that we may eat it and die.
17:13 以利亚对她说，不要怕，可以照你所说的去作罢。只要用这油和面先为我作一个小饼，拿来给我，然后为你和你的儿子作饼。
And Elijah said to her, Do not fear. Go, do as you have said. But make me a little cake out of it first, and bring it out to me; then make something for yourself and
for your son afterward.
17:14 因为耶和华以色列的神如此说，坛内的面必不用完，瓶里的油必不短缺，直到耶和华使雨降在地上的日子。
For thus says Jehovah the God of Israel, The barrel of meal will not give out, nor will the jar of oil fail, until the day that Jehovah sends rain upon the face of the
earth.
17:15 妇人就照以利亚的话去行。她和以利亚并她家中的人，吃了许多日子。
And she went and did according to the word of Elijah. And she and he and her house ate for many days.
17:16 坛内的面果然没有用完，瓶里的油也没有短缺，正如耶和华藉以利亚所说的话。
The barrel of meal did not give out, nor did the jar of oil fail, according to the word of Jehovah, which He had spoken through Elijah.
17:17 这些事以后，作那家主母的妇人，她儿子病了，病得甚重，以致身无气息。
Then after these things the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, became ill; and his illness was so severe that there was no breath left in him.
17:18 妇人对以利亚说，神人哪，我与你何干？你竟到我这里来，使神想起我的罪孽，叫我的儿子死呢？
And she said to Elijah, What have I done to you, O man of God, that you have come to me to recall my iniquity and kill my son?
17:19 以利亚对她说，把你儿子交给我。以利亚就从妇人怀中将孩子接过来，抱到他所住的楼房，放在自己的床上，
361
And he said to her, Bring me your son. And he took him out of her bosom and carried him up into the upper chamber where he was staying, and he laid him
upon his own bed.
17:20 就呼求耶和华，说，耶和华我的神阿，我寄居在这寡妇的家里，难道你竟降祸与她，使她的儿子死了么？
And he cried to Jehovah and said, Jehovah, my God, have You also brought evil upon the widow, to whom I am a guest, by slaying her son?
17:21 以利亚三次伏在孩子的身上，呼求耶和华，说，耶和华我的神阿，求你使这孩子的魂回到他里面！
And he stretched himself upon the child three times and cried to Jehovah and said, Jehovah, my God, I beg You, let this child's soul come into him again!
17:22 耶和华应允以利亚的话，孩子的魂回到他里面，他就活了。
And Jehovah listened to the voice of Elijah; and the child's soul came into him again, and he lived.
17:23 以利亚将孩子从楼上抱下来，进屋子交给他母亲，说，看哪，你的儿子活了。
And Elijah took the child and brought him down from the upper room into the house and gave him to his mother. And Elijah said, See, your son is alive.
17:24 妇人对以利亚说，现在我才知道你是神人，耶和华的话在你口中是真的。
And the woman said to Elijah, Now by this I know that you are a man of God and that the word of Jehovah in your mouth is truth.
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 18 章
18:1 过了许久，到第三年，耶和华的话临到以利亚，说，你去，使亚哈得见你；我要降雨在地上。
Then after many days the word of Jehovah came to Elijah in the third year, saying, Go, present yourself to Ahab; and I will send rain upon the face of the earth.
18:2 以利亚就去，要使亚哈得见他。那时，在撒玛利亚的饥荒甚重。
And Elijah went to present himself to Ahab. And the famine was severe in Samaria.
18:3 亚哈将他的家宰俄巴底召了来。(俄巴底甚是敬畏耶和华；
And Ahab called for Obadiah, who was over his house. (Now Obadiah feared Jehovah greatly.
18:4 耶洗别剪除耶和华众申言者的时候，俄巴底将一百个申言者，每五十人藏在一个洞里，拿饼和水供养他们。)
And when Jezebel cut off the prophets of Jehovah, Obadiah took a hundred prophets and hid them by fifties in a cave and kept them fed with bread and water.)
18:5 亚哈对俄巴底说，你去走遍这地，到一切水泉旁和一切溪边；或者我们找得着青草，可以救活骡马，免得丧失一些牲口。
And Ahab said to Obadiah, Go through the land, to all the springs of water and to all the brooks; perhaps we will find grass to keep the horses and the mules
alive and not lose some of the animals.
18:6 于是二人分地巡行，亚哈独走一路，俄巴底独走一路。
And they divided the land between them in order to pass through it: Ahab went one way by himself, and Obadiah went another way by himself.
18:7 俄巴底在路上恰与以利亚相遇，俄巴底认出他来，就面伏于地，说，你真是我主以利亚么？
And while Obadiah was on the way, Elijah met him at that moment; and he recognized him and fell on his face and said, Is it indeed you, my lord Elijah?
18:8 以利亚对他说，我是。你去告诉你主人，以利亚在这里。
And he said to him, It is I. Go and say to your lord, Elijah is here.
18:9 俄巴底说，我犯了什么罪，你竟要将仆人交在亚哈手里，使他杀我呢？
And he said, What sin have I committed, that you give your servant into the hand of Ahab to put me to death?
18:10 我指着永活的耶和华你的神起誓，无论那一邦那一国，我主没有不打发人去找你的；人若说你没有在那里，就必使那国那邦的人起誓说，实在是找
不着你。
As Jehovah your God lives, there is no nation or kingdom that my lord has not sent men into in order to seek you; and when they said, He is not here, he had an
oath taken from the kingdom or nation that they had not found you there.
18:11 现在你说，要去告诉你主人，以利亚在这里。
And now you say, Go and say to your lord, Elijah is here.
18:12 恐怕我一离开你，耶和华的灵就提你到我所不知道的地方去；这样，我去告诉亚哈，他若找不着你，就必杀我；仆人却是自幼敬畏耶和华的。
And it will happen that when I go away from you, the Spirit of Jehovah will carry you off, I know not where; and when I come and tell Ahab, and he cannot find
you, he will slay me, although I your servant have feared Jehovah since my youth.
18:13 耶洗别杀耶和华众申言者的时候，我将耶和华的一百个申言者，每五十人藏在一个洞里，拿饼和水供养他们，岂没有人将我所作的这事告诉我主么？
Was it not told my lord what I did when Jezebel slew the prophets of Jehovah, that I hid a hundred of Jehovah's prophets by fifties in a cave and kept them fed
with bread and water?
18:14 现在你说，要去告诉你主人，以利亚在这里；他必杀我。
And now you say, Go and say to your lord, Elijah is here; and he will slay me.
18:15 以利亚说，我指着永活的万军之耶和华，就是我侍立在祂面前的那位起誓，我今日必使亚哈得见我。
Then Elijah said, As Jehovah of hosts lives, before whom I stand, I will present myself to him today.
18:16 于是俄巴底去迎着亚哈，告诉他；亚哈就去迎着以利亚。
Then Obadiah went to meet Ahab, and he told him. And Ahab went to meet Elijah.
18:17 亚哈见了以利亚，便说，使以色列遭灾的就是你么？
And when Ahab saw Elijah, Ahab said to him, Is that you, the troubler of Israel?
18:18 以利亚说，使以色列遭灾的不是我，乃是你和你父家；因为你们离弃耶和华的诫命，去随从诸巴力。
And he said, I have not troubled Israel, but you and your father's house have, in that you have forsaken the commandments of Jehovah and have gone after the
Baals.
18:19 现在你当差遣人，招聚以色列众人，和耶洗别所供养，巴力的那四百五十个申言者，以及亚舍拉的那四百个申言者，使他们都上迦密山去见我。
And now send word, and gather all Israel to me at Mount Carmel, as well as the four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal and the four hundred prophets of the
Asherah, who eat at Jezebel's table.
18:20 亚哈就差遣人到以色列众人那里，招聚众申言者上迦密山。
So Ahab sent word to all the children of Israel and gathered the prophets together unto Mount Carmel.
18:21 以利亚前来对众民说，你们心持两意要到几时呢？若耶和华是神，就当跟从耶和华；若巴力是神，就当跟从巴力。众民一言不答。
Then Elijah came near to all the people and said, How long will you go hopping between two opinions? If Jehovah is God, follow Him; but if Baal is, follow him.
And the people did not answer him a word.
362
18:22 以利亚对众民说，作耶和华申言者的，只剩下我一个人，巴力的申言者，却有四百五十人。
And Elijah said to the people, I alone am left as a prophet of Jehovah, but Baal's prophets are four hundred and fifty men.
18:23 当给我们两只公牛，巴力的申言者可以挑选一只，切成块子放在柴上，不要点火；
Let them therefore give us two bulls. And let them choose one bull for themselves and cut it in pieces and put it on the wood, but let them apply no fire; and I will
prepare the other bull and put it on the wood, and I will apply no fire.
18:24 我也预备一只公牛放在柴上，也不点火。你们呼求你们神的名，我也呼求耶和华的名；那降火回应的神，就是神。众民回答说，这话甚好。
Then call on the name of your god, and I will call on the name of Jehovah; and the God who answers by fire, He will be God. And all the people answered and
said, The word seems good.
18:25 以利亚对巴力的申言者说，你们既是人多，当先挑选一只公牛，预备好了，就呼求你们神的名，却不要点火。
And Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, Choose one bull for yourselves, and prepare it first, for there are many of you. And call on the name of your god, but apply
no fire.
18:26 他们将所给他们的公牛预备好了，从早晨到午间，呼求巴力的名，说，巴力阿，求你回应我们！却没有声音，没有回应的。他们在所筑的坛四围踊
跳。
So they took the bull which had been given them and prepared it; and they called on the name of Baal from morning until noon, saying, O Baal, answer us! But
there was no voice, and no one answered. And they leaped around the altar that had been made.
18:27 到了正午，以利亚嬉笑他们，说，大声呼求罢，因为他是神；他或在默想，或走到一边，或在行路。他或在睡觉，就要醒来。
Then at noon Elijah mocked them and said, Cry out with a loud voice, for he is a god; for he is meditating or has wandered off or is on a journey. Perhaps he is
asleep and will awake.
18:28 他们大声呼求，按着他们的规矩，用刀枪自割自刺，直到血流满身。
And they cried out with a loud voice and cut themselves, according to their custom, with swords and spears until blood gushed out all over them.
18:29 中午过后，他们狂呼乱叫，直到献晚祭的时候，却没有声音，没有回应的，也没有理会的。
And when noon had past, they prophesied until the time of the offering up of the meal offering; but there was no voice nor any that answered nor any attention
paid.
18:30 以利亚对众民说，你们到我这里来。众民就到他那里。他便重修已经毁坏的耶和华的坛。
Then Elijah said to all the people, Come near to me. And all the people came near to him. And he repaired the altar of Jehovah which was broken down.
18:31 以利亚照雅各子孙支派的数目，取了十二块石头，(耶和华的话曾临到雅各，说，你的名要叫以色列，)
And Elijah took twelve stones, according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob (to whom the word of Jehovah came, saying, Israel shall be your name);
18:32 用这些石头在耶和华的名里筑一座坛，在坛的四围挖沟，可容谷种二细亚。
And with the stones he built an altar in the name of Jehovah, and he made a trench around the altar, with a capacity of two measures of seed.
18:33 他又在坛上摆好了柴，把公牛切成块子，放在柴上，说，你们用四个桶盛满水，倒在燔祭和柴上；
And he arranged the wood and cut the bull in pieces and laid it on the wood. And he said, Fill four jars with water, and pour the water on the burnt offering and
on the wood.
18:34 又说，倒第二次；他们就倒第二次。又说，倒第三次；
And he said, Do it a second time. And they did it a second time. And he said, Do it a third time. And they did it a third time.
18:35 他们就倒第三次。水流在坛的四围，沟里也满了水。
And the water went around the altar, and he filled the trench also with water.
18:36 到了献晚祭的时候，申言者以利亚近前来，说，亚伯拉罕、以撒、以色列的神，耶和华阿，求你今日使人知道你在以色列中是神，也知道我是你的
仆人，又是凭你的话行这一切事。
Then at the time of the offering up of the meal offering, Elijah the prophet came near and said, O Jehovah, God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, let it be known
today that You are God in Israel and that I am Your servant and that I have done all these things by Your word.
18:37 耶和华阿，求你应允我，应允我，使这民知道你耶和华是神，又知道是你叫他们的心回转。
Answer me, O Jehovah; answer me, that this people may know that You, O Jehovah, are God and that You have turned their heart back again.
18:38 于是耶和华降下火来，烧尽燔祭、木柴、石头、尘土，又烧干沟里的水。
And the fire of Jehovah fell and consumed the burnt offering and the wood and the stones and the dust, and it licked up the water that was in the trench.
18:39 众民看见了，就面伏于地，说，耶和华是神！耶和华是神！
And when all the people saw this, they fell on their faces and said, Jehovah-He is God! Jehovah-He is God!
18:40 以利亚对他们说，拿住巴力的申言者，不让他们一人逃脱！众人就拿住他们；以利亚带他们下到基顺河边，在那里杀了他们。
And Elijah said to them, Seize the prophets of Baal; let not one of them escape! And they seized them, and Elijah brought them down to the brook Kishon and
slaughtered them there.
18:41 以利亚对亚哈说，你上去吃喝罢，因为有多雨的响声了。
Then Elijah said to Ahab, Go up; eat and drink, for there is the sound of an abundance of rain.
18:42 亚哈就上去吃喝。以利亚上了迦密山顶，屈身在地，将脸伏在两膝之间；
And Ahab went up to eat and drink. And Elijah went up to the top of Carmel, and he bowed down on the earth and put his face between his knees.
18:43 对仆人说，你上去，向海观看。仆人就上去观看，说，没有什么。他说，你再去观看；如此七次。
And he said to his attendant, Go up now; look toward the sea. And he went up and looked and said, There is nothing. And he said seven times, Go back.
18:44 第七次仆人说，看哪，有一小片云，如人的手掌那样大，从海里上来。以利亚说，你上去告诉亚哈，当套车下去，免得被雨阻挡。
And at the seventh time the attendant said, Now there is a cloud, small as a man's hand, coming up out of the sea. And Elijah said, Go up and say to Ahab,
Prepare a chariot and go down, so that the rain does not stop you.
18:45 霎时间，天因风云黑暗，降下大雨。亚哈就坐车往耶斯列去了。
And in the meantime the heavens became black with clouds, and there was wind and a great rain. And Ahab mounted his chariot and went to Jezreel.
18:46 耶和华的手临到以利亚身上，他就束上腰，奔在亚哈前头，直到耶斯列的入口。
And the hand of Jehovah was upon Elijah; and he girded up his loins and ran before Ahab to the entrance of Jezreel.
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 19 章
363
19:1 亚哈将以利亚一切所行的，和他用刀杀众申言者的一切事，都告诉耶洗别。
And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done and all about how he had slain all the prophets with the sword.
19:2 耶洗别就差遣使者去见以利亚，说，明日到这时候，我若不使你的性命像那些人的性命一样，愿神明重重的降罚与我。
And Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah, saying, The gods do so to me and even more, if by this time tomorrow I do not make your life like the life of one of them!
19:3 以利亚害怕，就起来逃命，到了犹大的别是巴，将仆人留在那里；
And because he was afraid, he rose up and went away for his life; and he came to Beer-sheba, which belongs to Judah, and left his attendant there.
19:4 自己在旷野走了一日的路程，来到一棵罗腾树下，就坐在那里求死，说，耶和华阿，罢了；求你现在取我的性命，因为我不比我的列祖好。
And he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a certain broom shrub; and he requested for himself that he might die
and said, It is enough; now, O Jehovah, take my life, for I am no better than my fathers.
19:5 他就躺在罗腾树下睡着了。忽然有一个天使拍他，说，起来吃罢。
And he lay down and slept under the broom shrub. And suddenly an angel touched him and said to him, Rise up and eat.
19:6 他观看，见头旁有炭火烤的饼，与一瓶水；他就吃了喝了，仍然躺下。
And he looked, and there at his head was a cake, baked on hot stones, and a jar of water. And he ate and drank, and lay down again.
19:7 耶和华的使者第二次来拍他，说，起来吃罢；因为你当走的路甚远。
And the angel of Jehovah came again the second time and touched him and said, Rise up and eat; for the journey is too great for you.
19:8 他就起来吃了喝了，仗着这饮食的力，走了四十昼四十夜，到了神的山，就是何烈山。
And he rose up and ate and drank, and he went in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights to Horeb the mount of God.
19:9 他在那里进了一个洞，就住在洞中。耶和华的话临到他，说，以利亚阿，你在这里作什么？
And there he went into a cave and lodged there. And at that time the word of Jehovah came to him; and He said to him, What are you doing here, Elijah?
19:10 他说，我为耶和华万军之神大发妒忌；因为以色列人背弃了你的约，拆毁了你的坛，用刀杀了你的申言者，只剩下我一个人，他们还寻索要夺我的
命。
And he said, I have been very jealous for Jehovah the God of hosts; for the children of Israel have forsaken Your covenant, thrown down Your altars, and slain
Your prophets with the sword; and I alone am left, and they seek to take my life.
19:11 耶和华说，你出来站在山上，在我耶和华面前。那时耶和华从那里经过，在祂面前有烈风大作，崩山碎石，耶和华却不在风中；风后地震，耶和华却
不在其中；
And He said, Go out, and stand upon the mountain before Jehovah. And suddenly Jehovah passed by, and a great, strong wind rent the mountains and broke
the rocks in pieces before Jehovah-Jehovah was not in the wind. And after the wind, an earthquake-Jehovah was not in the earthquake.
19:12 地震后有火，耶和华也不在火中；火后有微小柔细的声音。
And after the earthquake, a fire-Jehovah was not in the fire. And after the fire, a gentle, quiet voice.
19:13 以利亚听见，就用外衣蒙上脸，出来站在洞口。有声音向他说，以利亚阿，你在这里作什么？
And when Elijah heard it, he wrapped his face in his mantle and went out and stood at the entrance of the cave. And then a voice came to him and said, What
are you doing here, Elijah?
19:14 他说，我为耶和华万军之神大发妒忌；因为以色列人背弃了你的约，拆毁了你的坛，用刀杀了你的申言者，只剩下我一个人，他们还寻索要夺我的
命。
And he said, I have been very jealous for Jehovah the God of hosts; for the children of Israel have forsaken Your covenant, thrown down Your altars, and slain
Your prophets with the sword; and I alone am left, and they seek to take my life.
19:15 耶和华对他说，你去罢，从你的原路回大马色的旷野去；到了那里，就要膏哈薛作亚兰王，
And Jehovah said to him, Go; return on your way to the wilderness of Damascus; and when you come there, anoint Hazael as king over Syria;
19:16 又膏宁示的孙子耶户作以色列王，并膏亚伯米何拉人沙法的儿子以利沙作申言者接续你。
And Jehu the son of Nimshi you shall anoint as king over Israel; and Elisha the son of Shaphat of Abel-meholah you shall anoint as prophet in your place.
19:17 将来躲过哈薛之刀的，必被耶户所杀；躲过耶户之刀的，必被以利沙所杀。
And him who escapes the sword of Hazael, Jehu will kill; and him who escapes the sword of Jehu, Elisha will kill.
19:18 但我在以色列中为自己留下了七千人，都是未曾向巴力屈膝，未曾与巴力亲嘴的。
Yet I have left Myself seven thousand in Israel, all the knees that have not bowed unto Baal and every mouth that has not kissed him.
19:19 于是以利亚离开那里走了，遇见沙法的儿子以利沙；他正在耕地，在他前头有十二对牛，自己赶着第十二对。以利亚往前走到他那里，将自己的外
衣搭在他身上。
And he went from there and found Elisha the son of Shaphat. And he was plowing with twelve yokes before him, and he was with the twelfth. And Elijah went
over to him and threw his mantle upon him.
19:20 以利沙就撇下牛，跑去跟随以利亚，说，求你让我先与父母亲嘴，然后我便跟随你。以利亚对他说，你回去罢，我向你作了什么呢？
And he left the oxen and ran after Elijah and said, Let me kiss my father and my mother, and I will follow you. And he said to him, Go back again; for what have I
done to you?
19:21 以利沙就离开他回去，把一对牛宰了，用套牛的器具煮肉给民吃，随后就起身跟随以利亚，服事他。
And he returned from him and took the yoke of oxen and slaughtered them; and he boiled their flesh with the implements of the oxen and gave it to the people,
and they ate. And he rose up and went after Elijah and ministered to him.
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 20 章
20:1 亚兰王便哈达聚集他的全军，率领三十二个王，带着车马上来围攻撒玛利亚；
And Ben-hadad the king of Syria assembled all his army together; and there were thirty-two kings with him, as well as horses and chariots. And he went up and
besieged Samaria and fought against it.
20:2 又差遣使者进城见以色列王亚哈，对他说，便哈达如此说，
And he sent messengers to the city to Ahab the king of Israel and said to him, Thus says Ben-hadad,
20:3 你的金银都是我的，你妻子儿女中最美好的也是我的。
Your silver and your gold are mine; your best wives and children also are mine.
20:4 以色列王回答说，我主我王阿，就照你所说的，我与我所有的都是你的。
364
And the king of Israel answered and said, As you say, my lord the king, I and all that I have are yours.
20:5 使者又来说，便哈达如此说，我已差遣人去见你，说，你要将你的金银、妻子、儿女都给我；
And the messengers came again and said, Thus speaks Ben-hadad, saying, I sent word to you, saying, You shall give me your silver and your gold and your
wives and your children;
20:6 但明日约在这时候，我还要差遣我的臣仆到你那里，搜查你的家和你仆人的家；凡你眼中所喜爱的，他们都要下手拿去。
But tomorrow at this time I will send my servants to you, and they will search your house and your servants' houses; and whatever is pleasant in your sight, they
will put in their hand and take away.
20:7 以色列王召了那地所有的长老来，说，请你们看看，这人是怎样的设法害我；他先差遣人到我这里来，要我的妻子、儿女和金银，我并没有拒绝他。
And the king of Israel called all the elders of the land and said, Look now, and see how this man seeks trouble; for he sent word to me for my wives and my
children and my silver and my gold; and I did not deny him.
20:8 众长老和众百姓对王说，不要听从他，也不要应允他。
And all the elders and all the people said to him, Do not listen to him, nor shall you give consent.
20:9 故此，以色列王对便哈达的使者说，你们告诉我主我王说，你头一次差遣人向仆人所要的，我都照办；但这次所要的，我不能照办。使者就去将话回
覆便哈达。
And he said to the messengers of Ben-hadad, Tell my lord the king, All that you sent for to your servant at the first I will do; but this thing I cannot do. And the
messengers departed and brought word back to him.
20:10 便哈达又差遣人去见亚哈说，撒玛利亚的尘土若够跟从我的人每人捧一捧的，愿神明重重的降罚与我！
And Ben-hadad sent word to him and said, The gods do so to me and even more, if the dust of Samaria will provide even a handful for all the people who follow
me!
20:11 以色列王回答说，你们告诉他说，才束上战衣的，休要像卸下战衣的夸口。
And the king of Israel answered and said, Tell him, Let not him who puts on his armor boast like him who takes it off.
20:12 便哈达和诸王正在帐棚里喝酒，听见这话，就对他的臣仆说，摆队罢。他们就摆队攻城。
And when he heard this word, as he and the kings in the tents were drinking, he said to his servants, Set yourselves in position. And they set themselves in
position against the city.
20:13 这时有一个申言者前来见以色列王亚哈，说，耶和华如此说，
Then at that moment a certain prophet approached Ahab the king of Israel and said, Thus says Jehovah, Have you seen all this great multitude? I am now
delivering it into your hand today, and you will know that I am Jehovah.
20:14 这一大群人你看见了么？看哪，今日我必将他们交在你手里，你就知道我是耶和华。亚哈说，借着谁呢？他回答说，耶和华如此说，借着诸省长的
少年侍从。亚哈说，谁要先开战呢？他说，就是你。
And Ahab said, Through whom? And he said, Thus says Jehovah, Through the attendants of the leaders of the provinces. Then he said, Who shall begin the
battle? And He said, You.
20:15 于是亚哈数点侍候诸省长的少年人，共有二百三十二名，后又数点众民，就是以色列众人，共有七千名。
And he numbered the attendants of the leaders of the provinces, and they were two hundred and thirty-two; and after them he numbered all the people, all the
children of Israel, seven thousand.
20:16 正午他们出城；便哈达和帮助他的三十二个王，正在帐棚里喝醉了。
And they went out at noon; and Ben-hadad was drinking himself drunk in the tents, he and the kings, the thirty-two kings who helped him.
20:17 诸省长的少年侍从先出城；便哈达差遣人去探望，他们告诉他说，有人从撒玛利亚出来了。
And the attendants of the leaders of the provinces went out first. And Ben- hadad sent out men, and they told him, saying, Some men have come forth from
Samaria.
20:18 他说，他们若为讲和出来，要活捉他们；
And he said, If they have come forth for peace, take them alive; or if they have come forth for war, take them alive.
20:19 若为打仗出来，也要活捉他们。从城里出来的，有诸省长的少年侍从，和跟随他们的军兵；
But these had come forth from the city, the attendants of the leaders of the provinces and the army that followed them.
20:20 各人遇见敌人就杀。亚兰人逃跑，以色列人追赶他们；亚兰王便哈达骑着马，和马兵一同逃跑。
And each man struck down his opponent; and the Syrians fled, and Israel pursued them. And Ben-hadad the king of Syria escaped on a horse with the
horsemen.
20:21 以色列王出城攻打车马，大大击杀亚兰人。
And the king of Israel went forth and struck down the horses and chariots, and he struck down the Syrians with a great slaughter.
20:22 那申言者前来见以色列王，对他说，去罢，你当自强，留意看明你所要作的；因为到明年初，亚兰王必上来攻击你。
And the prophet approached the king of Israel and said to him, Go; strengthen yourself, and consider and see what you should do; for at the return of the year
the king of Syria will come up against you.
20:23 亚兰王的臣仆对亚兰王说，以色列人的神是山神，所以他们胜过我们；但我们若在平原与他们打仗，必定胜过他们。
And the servants of the king of Syria said to him, Their gods are gods of the mountains; therefore they were stronger than we. But if we fight against them in the
plain, we will surely be stronger than they.
20:24 你当这样行：把诸王革去，各撤其位，派省长代替他们；
So do this: Remove the kings, each from his place, and put governors in their places.
20:25 又照你所丧失的军兵，为自己数点一支军兵，马补马，车补车；我们在平原与他们打仗，必定胜过他们。王便听臣仆的话去行。
And you number an army, like the army that you lost, horse for horse and chariot for chariot; and we will fight against them in the plain. We will surely be stronger
than they. And he listened to their voice and did so.
20:26 次年初，便哈达果然点齐亚兰人上亚弗去，要与以色列人打仗。
And at the return of the year Ben- hadad numbered the Syrians and went up to Aphek to fight with Israel.
20:27 以色列人也数点整齐，预备食物，迎着亚兰人出去。以色列人对着他们安营，好像两小群山羊羔；亚兰人却满了那地。
And the children of Israel were numbered and supplied with food, and they went to meet them. And the children of Israel encamped before them like two little
flocks of goats, but the Syrians filled the land.
20:28 有神人前来见以色列王，对他说，耶和华如此说，亚兰人既说耶和华是山神，不是谷地的神，所以我必将这一大群人都交在你手中，你们就知道我
是耶和华。
365
And the man of God approached and spoke to the king of Israel and said, Thus says Jehovah, Because the Syrians have said, Jehovah is a God of the mountains,
but He is not a God of the valleys, I will deliver all this great multitude into your hand; and you will know that I am Jehovah.
20:29 以色列人与亚兰人相对安营七日，到第七日两军交战；那一日以色列人杀了亚兰人步兵十万。
And they camped, one army against the other, for seven days. Then on the seventh day the battle was joined, and the children of Israel struck down a hundred
thousand footmen of the Syrians in one day.
20:30 其余的逃入亚弗城；城墙倒塌，压死剩下的二万七千人。便哈达也逃入城，逐室躲藏。
And the rest fled to Aphek, into the city; and the wall fell on the twenty-seven thousand of them who were left. And Ben-hadad fled and came into the city, hiding
from one room to another.
20:31 他的臣仆对他说，我们听说以色列家的王都是有恩慈的王，我们不如腰束麻布，头套绳索，出去见以色列王，或者他会存留你的性命。
And his servants said to him, Look now, we have heard that the kings of the house of Israel are merciful kings. We beg you, let us put sackcloth on our loins and
ropes upon our heads, and go out to the king of Israel. Perhaps he will preserve your life.
20:32 于是他们腰束麻布，头套绳索，来见以色列王，说，你的仆人便哈达说，求你存留我的性命。亚哈说，他还活着么？他是我的兄弟。
And they girded sackcloth on their loins and ropes on their heads, and came to the king of Israel and said, Your servant Ben-hadad says, I beg you, preserve my
life. And he said, Is he still alive? He is my brother.
20:33 这些人正在探兆头，便急忙抓住他的话说，便哈达是你的兄弟。王说，你们去领他来。便哈达出来见王，王就请他上车。
And the men were looking for some sign and quickly caught what came from him; and they said, Ben-hadad is your brother. And he said, Go and bring him.
And Ben-hadad came forth to him, and he brought him up into the chariot.
20:34 便哈达对王说，我父亲从你父亲那里所夺的城邑，我必归还；你可以在大马色立街市，像我父亲在撒玛利亚所立的一样。亚哈说，凭着这约，我放
你回去；就与他立约，放他去了。
And Ben-hadad said to him, The cities that my father took from your father I will restore; and you shall make streets for yourself in Damascus, as my father made
in Samaria. And I, said Ahab, will send you away with this treaty. So he made a treaty with him and sent him away.
20:35 有申言者的一个门徒，凭耶和华的话对他的同伴说，你打我罢。那人却不肯打他。
And a certain one of the sons of the prophets said to his companion by the word of Jehovah, Strike me. But the man refused to strike him.
20:36 他就对那人说，你既不听从耶和华的话，你一离开我，必有狮子咬死你。那人一离开他，果然有狮子遇见他，把他咬死了。
Then he said to him, Because you have not listened to the voice of Jehovah, as soon as you depart from me, the lion will strike you down. And when he had
departed from him, the lion found him and struck him down.
20:37 申言者的门徒又遇见另一个人，对他说，你打我罢。那人就打他，将他打伤。
Then he found another man and said, Strike me. And the man struck him violently and wounded him.
20:38 那申言者就去了，用头巾蒙眼，改换面目，在路旁等候王。
And the prophet departed and waited for the king by the way, and he disguised himself with a bandage over his eyes.
20:39 王从那里经过，他向王呼叫说，你仆人出战，在战阵之中，有人转过来，带着另一个人来见我，说，你看守这人；他若不见了，你的命必代替他的
命；不然，你必交出一他连得银子来。
And when the king passed by, he cried out to the king and said, Your servant went out into the midst of the battle; and then a man turned aside and brought
another man to me and said, Guard this man; if he is missing at all, your life will be for his life, or you will pay a talent of silver.
20:40 仆人正在忙这忙那的时候，那人就跑走了。以色列王对他说，你的判决正是如此；你自己已经断定了。
And because your servant was doing things here and there, he got away. And the king of Israel said to him, So be your judgment; you have determined it
yourself.
20:41 他急忙除掉蒙眼的头巾，以色列王就认出他是一个申言者。
Then he quickly took the bandage away from over his eyes; and the king of Israel recognized that he was one of the prophets.
20:42 他对王说，耶和华如此说，因你将我定要灭绝的人从你手中放去，你的命就必代替他的命，你的民也必代替他的民。
And he said to him, Thus says Jehovah, Because you have released out of your hand the man whom I had devoted to destruction, your life shall be for his life,
and your people for his people.
20:43 于是以色列王闷闷不乐的回到撒玛利亚，进了他的宫。
And the king of Israel went to his house sullen and vexed, and he came to Samaria.
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 21 章
21:1 这些事以后，又发生一件事：耶斯列人拿伯在耶斯列有一个葡萄园，靠近撒玛利亚王亚哈的宫。
And after these things, it so happened that Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard, which was in Jezreel, alongside the palace of Ahab the king of Samaria.
21:2 亚哈对拿伯说，你将你的葡萄园给我作菜园，因为靠近我的宫；我要把更好的葡萄园换给你，或是你看为好，我就按着价值给你银子。
And Ahab spoke to Naboth, saying, Give me your vineyard, that I may have it for a vegetable garden; for it is nearby, alongside my house. And I will give you in
its place a better vineyard than it; or if it seems good to you, I will give you its value in money.
21:3 拿伯对亚哈说，耶和华绝不许我将祖先的产业给你！
And Naboth said to Ahab, Jehovah forbid that I give the inheritance of my fathers to you!
21:4 亚哈因耶斯列人拿伯告诉他的话，说，我不将我祖先的产业给你，就闷闷不乐的回宫，躺在床上，转脸向内，也不吃饭。
And Ahab came into his house sullen and vexed because of the word that Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him; for he had said, I will not give you the
inheritance of my fathers. And he lay down on his bed and turned away his face and would eat no food.
21:5 亚哈的妻子耶洗别来见他，问他说，你为什么灵里这样忧闷，不吃饭呢？
And Jezebel his wife came to him and said to him, Why is your spirit so sullen that you will not eat any food?
21:6 亚哈对她说，因我向耶斯列人拿伯说，你将你的葡萄园给我，我给你价银；或是你愿意，我就把别的葡萄园换给你；他却说，我不将我的葡萄园给你。
And he said to her, Because I spoke to Naboth the Jezreelite and said to him, Give me your vineyard for money; or else, if it pleases you, I will give you another
vineyard for it; and he said, I will not give you my vineyard.
21:7 亚哈的妻子耶洗别对他说，你现在是作王治理以色列不是？只管起来吃饭，让你的心畅快：我必将耶斯列人拿伯的葡萄园给你。
And Jezebel his wife said to him, Do you now exercise sovereignty over Israel? Rise up, eat some food, and let your heart be glad: I will give you the vineyard of
Naboth the Jezreelite.
366
21:8 于是她托亚哈的名写信，用亚哈的印印上，送给那些在拿伯的城内与拿伯同城居住的长老和贵胄。
And she wrote letters in Ahab's name and sealed them with his seal, and she sent the letters to the elders and to the nobles who dwelt with Naboth in his city.
21:9 信上写着说，你们当宣告禁食，叫拿伯坐在民间的首位上。
And she wrote in the letters, saying, Proclaim a fast, and set Naboth at the head of the people.
21:10 又叫两个匪徒坐在拿伯对面，作见证告他说，你谤讟神和王了；随后就把他拉出去用石头打死。
And put two worthless fellows before him, and they shall testify against him, saying, You cursed God and the king. Then carry him out, and stone him that he may
die.
21:11 拿伯城里的人，就是那些在他城里居住的长老和贵胄，就照着耶洗别打发人给他们的指示，照着她送给他们的信上所写的而行。
And the men of his city, the elders and the nobles who dwelt in his city, did according to the instructions that Jezebel had sent to them, as it was written in the
letters that she had sent to them.
21:12 他们宣告禁食，叫拿伯坐在民间的首位上。
They proclaimed a fast, and set Naboth at the head of the people.
21:13 两个匪徒来坐在拿伯的对面；这两个匪徒当着百姓作见证告他说，拿伯谤讟神和王了。众人就把他拉到城外，用石头打死。
And the two worthless fellows came and sat before him; and the worthless men testified against him, against Naboth, in the presence of the people, saying,
Naboth cursed God and the king. And they carried him out of the city and stoned him with stones, and he died.
21:14 于是打发人去见耶洗别，说，拿伯被石头打死了。
And they sent word to Jezebel, saying, Naboth has been stoned and is dead.
21:15 耶洗别听见拿伯被石头打死，就对亚哈说，你起来将耶斯列人拿伯不肯为价银给你的葡萄园占取为业罢；因为拿伯已经不在，已经死了。
And when Jezebel heard that Naboth had been stoned and was dead, Jezebel said to Ahab, Rise up and take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the
Jezreelite, which he refused to give you for money; for Naboth is not alive but dead.
21:16 亚哈听见拿伯死了，就起来，下到耶斯列人拿伯的葡萄园去，要占取为业。
And when Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, Ahab rose up to go down to the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite to take possession of it.
21:17 耶和华的话临到提斯比人以利亚，说，
And the word of Jehovah came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying,
21:18 你起来，下去迎见那在撒玛利亚的以色列王亚哈；他现今正在拿伯的葡萄园里，他下到那里去，要将那园占取为业。
Rise up and go down to meet Ahab the king of Israel, who is in Samaria. He is now in the vineyard of Naboth, where he has gone down to take possession of it.
21:19 你要对他说，耶和华如此说，你杀了人，又得他的产业么？又要对他说，耶和华如此说，狗在何处舔拿伯的血，
And you shall speak to him, saying, Thus says Jehovah, Have you killed and also taken possession? Then you shall speak to him, saying, Thus says Jehovah, In
the place where the dogs licked up the blood of Naboth, the dogs will lick up your blood also.
21:20 也必在何处舔你的血。亚哈对以利亚说，我仇敌阿，你找到了我么？以利亚说，我找到你了；因为你卖了自己，行耶和华眼中看为恶的事。
And Ahab said to Elijah, Have you found me, my enemy? And he said, I have found you because you have sold yourself to do what is evil in the sight of Jehovah.
21:21 耶和华说，看哪，我必使灾祸临到你，除灭你的后代；以色列中凡属亚哈的男丁，无论困住的、自由的，我都要剪除；
I am now bringing evil upon you, and I will take away your posterity and will cut off from Ahab every male, bond and free, in Israel;
21:22 我必使你的家像尼八的儿子耶罗波安的家，又像亚希雅的儿子巴沙的家，因为你惹我发怒，又使以色列人犯罪。
And I will make your house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat and like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah because of the provocation by which you
have provoked Me to anger and caused Israel to sin.
21:23 论到耶洗别，耶和华也说，狗必在耶斯列的外郭吃耶洗别的肉。
And concerning Jezebel, Jehovah also spoke, saying, The dogs will eat Jezebel by the rampart of Jezreel.
21:24 凡属亚哈的人，死在城中的必被狗吃，死在田野的必被空中的鸟吃。
Him of Ahab's who dies in the city, the dogs will eat; and him who dies in the field, the birds of heaven will eat.
21:25 (的确从来没有像亚哈的，他卖了自己，受他妻子耶洗别耸动，行耶和华眼中看为恶的事；
(Indeed there was none like Ahab, who sold himself to do what was evil in the sight of Jehovah because Jezebel his wife urged him on.
21:26 他照耶和华在以色列人面前所赶出之亚摩利人所行的，行了极可憎的事，去跟从偶像。)
And he acted very abominably in going after idols, according to all that the Amorites did, whom Jehovah had dispossessed before the children of Israel.)
21:27 亚哈听见这些话，就撕裂衣服，身穿麻布，并且禁食；他睡卧也穿着麻布，并且缓缓而行。
And when Ahab heard these words, he tore his clothes and put sackcloth upon his flesh and fasted; and he lay in sackcloth and went about carefully.
21:28 耶和华的话临到提斯比人以利亚，说，
And the word of Jehovah came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying,
21:29 亚哈在我面前这样自卑，你看见了么？因他在我面前自卑，他还在世的日子，我不降这祸；到他儿子的日子，我必降这祸与他的家。
Do you see how Ahab humbles himself before Me? Because he humbles himself before Me, I will not bring the evil upon him in his days; in his son's days I will
bring the evil upon his house.
列王纪上 1 Kings 第 22 章
22:1 亚兰和以色列之间，连续三年没有争战。
And they continued three years without war between Syria and Israel.
22:2 到第三年，犹大王约沙法下去见以色列王。
Then in the third year Jehoshaphat the king of Judah came down to the king of Israel.
22:3 以色列王对臣仆说，你们知道么？基列的拉末是属我们的，我们却静默不动，不从亚兰王手里夺回来。
And the king of Israel said to his servants, Do you know that Ramoth-gilead is ours, and yet we keep quiet without taking it out of the hand of the king of Syria?
22:4 亚哈问约沙法说，你肯同我去进攻基列的拉末么？约沙法对以色列王说，你我不分彼此，我的民如同你的民，我的马如同你的马。
And he said to Jehoshaphat, Will you go with me into battle at Ramoth-gilead? And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, I will be as you are; my people will be
as your people; my horses, as your horses.
22:5 约沙法对以色列王说，请你先求问耶和华怎么说。
And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, Ask today, I beg you, for the word of Jehovah.
367
22:6 于是以色列王招聚申言者，约有四百人，问他们说，我可以去进攻基列的拉末么？还是应当忍着不去？他们说，可以上去，因为主必将那城交在王的
手里。
And the king of Israel assembled the prophets, about four hundred men, and said to them, Shall I go against Ramoth- gilead to battle, or shall I refrain? And they
said, Go up, and the Lord will give it into the king's hand.
22:7 约沙法说，这里不是还有耶和华的申言者，我们可以求问他么？
But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not yet another prophet of Jehovah here, that we might inquire of him?
22:8 以色列王对约沙法说，还有一个人，是音拉的儿子米该雅，我们可以藉他求问耶和华；只是我恨他，因为他指着我所说的预言，不说吉语，单说凶言。
约沙法说，王不必这样说。
And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man by whom we may inquire of Jehovah; but I hate him, for he prophesies no good concerning me,
but evil. It is Micaiah the son of Imlah. And Jehoshaphat said, Let not the king say so.
22:9 以色列王就召了一个官员来，说，你快将音拉的儿子米该雅带来。
Then the king of Israel called a certain officer and said, Quickly bring Micaiah the son of Imlah.
22:10 以色列王和犹大王约沙法在撒玛利亚城门口的空场上，各穿王服，坐在位上，所有的申言者都在他们面前说预言。
Now the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah were sitting, each on his throne, arrayed in their robes, on the threshing floor at the entrance of the
gate of Samaria; and all the prophets were prophesying before them.
22:11 基拿拿的儿子西底家给自己造了两个铁角，说，耶和华如此说，你要用这角抵触亚兰人，直到将他们灭尽。
And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made for himself horns of iron; and he said, Thus says Jehovah, With these you will push the Syrians until you have
destroyed them.
22:12 所有的申言者也都这样预言，说，可以上基列的拉末去，必然顺利，因为耶和华必将那城交在王的手中。
And all the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to Ramoth-gilead, and succeed; for Jehovah will deliver it into the king's hand.
22:13 那去召米该雅的使者对米该雅说，看哪，众申言者一口同音的都向王说吉言，你不如像他们那样说话，也说吉言。
And the messenger who went to call Micaiah spoke to him, saying, See, the words of the prophets, being of one accord, seem good to the king. Let your word, I
beg you, be like the word of one of them, and speak good.
22:14 米该雅说，我指着永活的耶和华起誓，耶和华对我说什么，我就说什么。
And Micaiah said, As Jehovah lives, that which Jehovah says to me, that will I speak.
22:15 米该雅到王面前，王问他说，米该雅阿，我们可以去进攻基列的拉末么？还是应当忍着不去？他说，可以上去，必然顺利，因为耶和华必将那城交
在王的手中。
And when he came to the king, the king said to him, Micaiah, shall we go against Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall we refrain? And he said to him, Go up, and
succeed; for Jehovah will deliver it into the hand of the king.
22:16 王对他说，我当严严的嘱咐你多少次，你才在耶和华的名里向我不说别的，只说实话呢？
And the king said to him, How many times shall I adjure you to tell me nothing but the truth in the name of Jehovah?
22:17 米该雅说，我看见以色列众民散在山上，如同没有牧人的羊群一般。耶和华说，这些人没有主人，他们可以平平安安的各归各家去。
And he said, I saw all Israel scattered upon the mountains, like sheep that have no shepherd. And Jehovah said, These have no master; let each of them return to
his house in peace.
22:18 以色列王对约沙法说，我岂没有告诉你，这人指着我所说的预言，不说吉语，单说凶言么？
And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell you that he prophesies no good concerning me, but evil?
22:19 米该雅说，因此，你要听耶和华的话；我看见耶和华坐在宝座上，天上的万军侍立在祂左右。
And Micaiah said, Hear therefore the word of Jehovah, I saw Jehovah sitting upon His throne, and all the host of heaven standing by Him, on His right hand and
on His left.
22:20 耶和华说，谁去引诱亚哈，使他上基列的拉末去，倒毙在那里呢？这个就这样说，那个就那样说。
And Jehovah said, Who shall entice Ahab, that he may go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead? And one said after this manner, and another said after that manner.
22:21 随后有一个灵出来，站在耶和华面前，说，我去引诱他。
And there came forth a certain spirit and stood before Jehovah and said, I will entice him.
22:22 耶和华问他说，你用何法呢？他说，我要前去，在他一切申言者口中作谎言的灵。耶和华说，你去引诱他，必能成功；你前去如此行罢。
And Jehovah said unto him, How? And he said, I will go forth and be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. And He said, You shall entice him and surely
prevail. Go forth, and do so.
22:23 现在耶和华已将谎言的灵放在你这一切申言者的口中，并且耶和华已经指着你说了凶言。
So now Jehovah has put a lying spirit in the mouth of all these your prophets, and Jehovah has spoken evil concerning you.
22:24 基拿拿的儿子西底家前来，打米该雅的脸，说，耶和华的灵从那条路离开我去与你说话呢？
Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah approached and struck Micaiah upon the cheek and said, Which way did the Spirit of Jehovah pass from me to speak to
you?
22:25 米该雅说，你逐室躲藏的那日，就必看见了。
And Micaiah said, You will see on that day when you go from room to room to hide yourself.
22:26 以色列王说，将米该雅带回去，交给邑宰亚们和王的儿子约阿施。
And the king of Israel said, Take Micaiah and carry him back to Amon the governor of the city and to Joash the king's son.
22:27 你要说，王如此说，把这个人下在监里，使他受苦，吃不饱喝不足，直到我平平安安的回来。
And you shall say, Thus says the king, Put this man in prison, and feed him with the bread of affliction and with the water of affliction, until I come in peace.
22:28 米该雅说，你若能平平安安的回来，那就是耶和华没有藉我说话了；又说，众民哪，你们都要听！
And Micaiah said, If you return in peace at all, Jehovah has not spoken by me. And he said, Listen, O peoples, all of you!
22:29 以色列王和犹大王约沙法上基列的拉末去了。
And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramoth-gilead.
22:30 以色列王对约沙法说，我要改装上阵，
And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, I will disguise myself and enter into the battle; but you put on your robes. And the king of Israel disguised himself and
went into the battle.
22:31 你可以仍穿王服。以色列王就改装上阵。先是亚兰王吩咐他的三十二个车兵长说，他们的兵将，无论大小，你们都不可与他们争战，只要与以色列
王争战。
368
And the king of Syria commanded the thirty-two captains of his chariots, saying, Fight neither with small nor great, but with the king of Israel only.
22:32 车兵长看见约沙法，便说，这必是以色列王。他们就转过去与他争战，约沙法便呼喊。
And when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, they said, Surely this is the king of Israel. And they turned against him to fight, and Jehoshaphat cried
out.
22:33 车兵长见不是以色列王，就转回不追他了。
And when the captains of the chariots perceived that he was not the king of Israel, they turned back from pursuing him.
22:34 有一人随便开弓，恰巧射入以色列王的甲缝里。王对赶车的说，我受了伤，你把车转回去，拉我离开战阵罢。
And a man drew a bow at random and hit the king of Israel between the scale armor and the breastplate. And the king of Israel said to his charioteer, Turn your
hand, and drive me out of the camp; for I am wounded.
22:35 那日战事越发猛烈，有人扶王站在车上，
And the battle increased that day; and the king was propped up in his chariot before the Syrians, and he died in the evening; and the blood of the wound ran out
into the hollow of the chariot.
22:36 对着亚兰人；到晚上，王就死了，血从伤处流在车中。约在日落的时候，有号令传遍军中，说，各归本城，各归本地罢！
And the cry went throughout the army at the going down of the sun, saying, Every man to his city, and every man to his own land!
22:37 王既死了，人将他送到撒玛利亚，就葬在那里；
And the king died and was brought to Samaria. And they buried the king in Samaria.
22:38 又有人把他的车涮洗在撒玛利亚的池旁，(妓女在那里洗澡，)狗来舔他的血，正如耶和华所说的话。
And someone washed the chariot in the pool of Samaria; and the dogs licked his blood, where the harlots bathed, according to the word of Jehovah, which he
had spoken.
22:39 亚哈其余的事，凡他所行的，和他所修造的象牙宫，并他所建筑的一切城邑，岂不都写在以色列诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Ahab and all that he did and the ivory house that he built and all the cities that he built, are they not written in the book of the chronicles
of the kings of Israel?
22:40 亚哈与他列祖同睡；他儿子亚哈谢接续他作王。
And Ahab slept with his fathers; and Ahaziah his son reigned in his place.
22:41 以色列王亚哈第四年，亚撒的儿子约沙法登基作了犹大王。
And Jehoshaphat the son of Asa began to reign over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab the king of Israel.
22:42 约沙法登基的时候年三十五岁，在耶路撒冷作王二十五年；他母亲名叫阿苏巴，乃示利希的女儿。
Jehoshaphat was thirty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty-five years in Jerusalem; and his mother's name was Azubah, the
daughter of Shilhi.
22:43 约沙法行他父亲亚撒所行的一切道路，不偏离左右，行耶和华眼中看为正的事；只是邱坛还没有废去，百姓仍在邱坛上献祭烧香。
And he walked in all the way of Asa his father; he turned not aside from it, doing what was right in the sight of Jehovah. Nevertheless the high places were not
removed; the people offered sacrifices and burned incense still on the high places.
22:44 约沙法与以色列王和好。
And Jehoshaphat made peace with the king of Israel.
22:45 约沙法其余的事，和他所显出的勇力，并他怎样争战，岂不都写在犹大诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat and his might that he showed and how he warred, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
22:46 约沙法将他父亲亚撒在世的日子所剩下的娈童，都从犹大地除去了。
And the remainder of the male cult prostitutes, which were left in the days of his father Asa, he put away from out of the land.
22:47 那时以东没有王，有总督治理。
And there was no king in Edom; a deputy was king.
22:48 约沙法制造他施船只，要往俄斐去运金子；只是没有去，因为船在以旬迦别破坏了。
Jehoshaphat made ships of Tarshish go to Ophir for gold; but they did not go, for the ships were wrecked at Ezion-geber.
22:49 那时亚哈的儿子亚哈谢对约沙法说，让我的仆人和你的仆人坐船同去罢。约沙法却不肯。
Then Ahaziah the son of Ahab said to Jehoshaphat, Let my servants go with your servants in the ships. But Jehoshaphat was not willing.
22:50 约沙法与他列祖同睡，并与他列祖一同葬在他祖大卫的城里；他儿子约兰接续他作王。
And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father; and Jehoram his son reigned in his place.
22:51 犹大王约沙法十七年，亚哈的儿子亚哈谢，在撒玛利亚登基作以色列王；他作以色列王共二年。
Ahaziah the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat the king of Judah; and he reigned two years over Israel.
22:52 他行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，行他父亲和母亲所行的道路，
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah and walked in the way of his father and in the way of his mother and in the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat,
who caused Israel to sin.
22:53 又行那使以色列人犯罪，尼八的儿子耶罗波安的道路。他照他父亲一切所行的，事奉敬拜巴力，惹耶和华以色列的神发怒。
And he served Baal and worshipped him and provoked Jehovah the God of Israel to anger, according to all that his father had done.