63. 约翰二书 2 John
约翰二书 2 John 第 1 章
1:1 作长老的写信给蒙拣选的夫人和她的儿女，就是我真实所爱的；不单我爱，也是一切认识真理之人所爱的；
The elder to the chosen lady and to her children, whom I love in truthfulness, and not only I but also all those who know the truth,
1:2 爱你们是因真理的缘故，这真理存在我们里面，也必永远与我们同在。
For the sake of the truth which abides in us and will be with us forever:
1:3 恩典、怜悯、平安从父神，并从父的儿子耶稣基督，在真理和爱中，必与我们同在。
Grace, mercy, peace will be with us from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love.
1:4 我看到你的儿女，有照着我们从父所受的诫命，在真理中行事为人的，就大大欢乐。
I rejoiced greatly that I have found some of your children walking in truth, even as we received commandment from the Father.
1:5 夫人阿，我现在请求你，我们要彼此相爱；我写给你的并不是一条新诫命，乃是我们从起初就有的诫命。
And now I ask you, lady, not as writing a new commandment to you but that which we have had from the beginning, that we love one another.
1:6 我们要照祂的诫命行，这就是爱；你们要行在爱中，这就是诫命，正如你们从起初所听见的。
And this is love, that we walk according to His commandments. This is the commandment, even as you heard from the beginning, that you walk in love.
1:7 因为有许多迷惑人的已经出来，进到世界里，他们不承认耶稣基督是在肉体里来的。这就是那迷惑人的和敌基督的。
For many deceivers went out into the world, those who do not confess Jesus Christ coming in the flesh. This is the deceiver and the antichrist.
1:8 你们要小心，不要失去我们所已经作成的，乃要得着满足的赏赐。
Look to yourselves that you do not lose the things which we wrought, but that you may receive a full reward.
1:9 凡越过基督的教训，不留于其中的，就没有神；留于这教训中的，这人就有父又有子。
Everyone who goes beyond and does not abide in the teaching of Christ does not have God; he who abides in the teaching, he has both the Father and the Son.
1:10 若有人到你们那里，不是传讲这教训，不要接他到家里，也不要对他说，愿你喜乐；
If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house, and do not say to him, Rejoice!
1:11 因为对他说，愿你喜乐的，就在他的恶行上有分。
For he who says to him, Rejoice, shares in his evil works.
1:12 我还有许多事要写给你们，却不愿意用纸墨写出来；但盼望到你们那里，与你们当面交谈，使我们的喜乐得以满足。
Though I have many things to write to you, I do not want to do so with paper and ink, but I am hoping to be with you and to speak face to face that our joy may
be made full.
1:13 你那蒙拣选之姊妹的儿女都问你安。
The children of your chosen sister greet you.