55. 提摩太后书 2 Timothy
提摩太后书 2 Timothy 第 1 章
1:1 凭神旨意，照着在基督耶稣里生命的应许，作基督耶稣使徒的保罗，
Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God according to the promise of life, which is in Christ Jesus,
1:2 写信给我亲爱的孩子提摩太：愿恩典、怜悯、平安，从父神和我们的主基督耶稣归与你。
To Timothy, beloved child: Grace, mercy, peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
1:3 我感谢神，就是我接续祖先，用清洁的良心所事奉的神，昼夜祈求的时候，不住的提到你，
I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers in a pure conscience, while unceasingly I have remembrance concerning you in my petitions night and day,
1:4 记念你的眼泪，渴望见你，好叫我充满喜乐；
Longing to see you, remembering your tears, that I may be filled with joy;
1:5 记得你里面无伪的信心，就是先在你外祖母罗以，和你母亲友尼基里面的，我深信也在你里面。
Having been reminded of the unfeigned faith in you, which dwelt first in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice, and I am persuaded dwells also in you.
1:6 为这缘故，我提醒你，将那藉我按手，在你里面神的恩赐，再如火挑旺起来。
For which cause I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God, which is in you through the laying on of my hands.
1:7 因为神赐给我们的，不是胆怯的灵，乃是能力、爱、并清明自守的灵。
For God has not given us a spirit of cowardice, but of power and of love and of sobermindedness.
1:8 所以你不要以给我们的主作见证为耻，也不要以我这主的囚犯为耻；总要按神的能力，与福音同受苦难。
Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord nor of me His prisoner; but suffer evil with the gospel according to the power of God;
1:9 神救了我们，以圣召召了我们，不是按我们的行为，乃是按祂自己的定旨和恩典；这恩典是历世之前，在基督耶稣里赐给我们的，
Who has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works but according to His own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ
Jesus before the times of the ages
1:10 但如今借着我们救主基督耶稣的显现，才显明出来。祂已经把死废掉，借着福音将生命和不朽坏照耀出来；
But now has been manifested through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who nullified death and brought life and incorruption to light through the gospel,
1:11 我为这福音被派作传扬者，作使徒，作教师。
For which I was appointed a herald and an apostle and a teacher.
1:12 为这缘故，我也受这些苦难；然而我不以为耻，因为知道我所信的是谁，也深信祂能保守我所托付的，直到那日。
For which cause also I suffer these things; but I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and I am persuaded that He is able to guard my deposit unto
that day.
1:13 你从我听的那健康话语的规范，要用基督耶稣里的信和爱持守着。
Hold a pattern of the healthy words that you have heard from me, in the faith and love which are in Christ Jesus.
1:14 你要借着那住在我们里面的圣灵，保守那美好的托付。
Guard the good deposit through the Holy Spirit who dwells in us.
1:15 你知道所有在亚西亚的人都离弃了我，其中有腓吉路和黑摩其尼。
This you know, that all who are in Asia turned away from me, of whom are Phygelus and Hermogenes.
1:16 愿主怜悯阿尼色弗一家，因他屡次使我舒爽，且不以我的锁炼为耻；
May the Lord grant mercy to the house of Onesiphorus, for he often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chain;
1:17 反倒在罗马的时候，殷勤的寻找我，并且找着了。
But being in Rome, he sought me out diligently and found me.
1:18 愿主使他在那日从主得着怜悯。他在以弗所怎样多方的服事我，你知道得最清楚。
May the Lord grant him to find mercy from the Lord in that day. And in how many things he served me in Ephesus, you know best.
提摩太后书 2 Timothy 第 2 章
2:1 所以，我的孩子，你要在基督耶稣里的恩典上得着加力，
You therefore, my child, be empowered in the grace which is in Christ Jesus;
2:2 你在许多见证人面前从我所听见的，要托付那忠信、能教导别人的人。
And the things which you have heard from me through many witnesses, these commit to faithful men, who will be competent to teach others also.
2:3 你要和我同受苦难，好像基督耶稣的精兵。
Suffer evil with me as a good soldier of Christ Jesus.
2:4 凡当兵的，不让今生的事务缠身，好叫那招他入伍的人喜悦。
No one serving as a soldier entangles himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please the one who enlisted him.
2:5 竞赛的人，非按规矩竞赛，就不能得华冠。
And also if anyone contends in the games, he is not crowned unless he contends lawfully.
2:6 劳力的农夫，理当先分享果实。
The laboring farmer must be the first to partake of the fruit.
2:7 我所说的你要思想，因为凡事主必给你领悟力。
Consider what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in all things.
2:8 你要记念那从死人中得复活的耶稣基督，祂是出于大卫的后裔，这正合乎我所传的福音；
Remember Jesus Christ, raised from the dead, of the seed of David, according to my gospel,
2:9 我在这福音上受苦难，甚至被捆绑像犯人一样，然而神的话却不被捆绑。
In which I suffer evil unto bonds as a criminal; but the word of God is not bound.
2:10 所以我为选民凡事忍耐，叫他们也可以得着那在基督耶稣里的救恩，同永远的荣耀。
Therefore I endure all things for the sake of the chosen ones, that they themselves also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.
2:11 有可信的话说，我们若与基督同死，也必与祂同活；
Faithful is the word: For if we died with Him, we will also live with Him;
2:12 我们如果忍耐，也必与祂一同作王；我们如果不认祂，祂也必不认我们；
If we endure, we will also reign with Him; if we deny Him, He also will deny us;
2:13 我们纵然失信，祂仍是可信的，因为祂不能否定自己。
If we are faithless, He remains faithful, for He cannot deny Himself.
2:14 你要将这些事提醒众人，在神面前郑重的嘱咐他们，不可为言辞争辩，这是毫无用处的，只能败坏听见的人。
Remind them of these things, solemnly charging them before God not to have contentions of words, which is useful for nothing, to the ruin of those who hear.
2:15 你当竭力将自己呈献神前，得蒙称许，作无愧的工人，正直的分解真理的话。
Be diligent to present yourself approved to God, an unashamed workman, cutting straight the word of the truth.
2:16 但要远避世俗的空谈，因为这些空谈必进而成为更不敬虔。
But avoid profane, vain babblings, for they will advance to more ungodliness,
2:17 他们的话必像毒疮蔓衍；其中有许米乃和腓理徒，
And their word will spread like gangrene, of whom are Hymenaeus and Philetus,
2:18 他们在真理上偏离了目标，说复活的事已过，就倾覆一些人的信心。
Who concerning the truth have misaimed, saying that the resurrection has already taken place, and overthrow the faith of some.
2:19 然而，神坚固的根基立住了，上面有这印记说，主认识属于祂的人。又说，凡称呼主名的人，总要离开不义。
However the firm foundation of God stands, having this seal, The Lord knows those who are His, and, Let everyone who names the name of the Lord depart from
unrighteousness.
2:20 但在大户人家，不但有金器银器，也有木器瓦器；有作为贵重的，也有作为卑贱的；
But in a great house there are not only gold and silver vessels but also wooden and earthen; and some are unto honor, and some unto dishonor.
2:21 所以人若洁净自己，脱离这些卑贱的，就必成为贵重的器皿，分别为圣，合乎主人使用，预备行各样的善事。
If therefore anyone cleanses himself from these, he will be a vessel unto honor, sanctified, useful to the master, prepared unto every good work.
2:22 你要逃避青年人的私欲，同那清心呼求主的人，竭力追求公义、信、爱、和平。
But flee youthful lusts, and pursue righteousness, faith, love, peace with those who call on the Lord out of a pure heart.
2:23 至于愚拙无学问的辩论，总要弃绝，知道这些事是产生争竞的。
But foolish questionings and those arising from an untrained mind refuse, knowing that they beget contentions.
2:24 但主的奴仆不该争竞，总要温温和和的待众人，善于教导，忍受苦害，
But a slave of the Lord ought not to contend but be gentle toward all, apt to teach, bearing with wrong;
2:25 用温柔规劝那些抵挡的人；或许神给他们悔改的心，得以认识真理；
In meekness correcting those who oppose, if perhaps God may give them repentance unto the full knowledge of the truth,
2:26 他们这些已被魔鬼活捉了去的，也可以醒悟过来，脱离他的网罗，归于神的旨意。
And they may return to soberness out of the snare of the devil, having been caught alive by him, unto His will.
提摩太后书 2 Timothy 第 3 章
3:1 但你要知道，末后的日子必有艰难的时期来到；
But know this, that in the last days difficult times will come.
3:2 因为那时人要成为爱自己者、爱钱财者、自夸者、狂傲的、毁谤者、违背父母的、忘恩负义的、不圣的、
For men will be lovers of self, lovers of money, boasters, arrogant, revilers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy,
3:3 无亲情的、不解怨的、好说谗言者、不能自约的、性情凶暴的、不爱良善者、
Without natural affection, implacable, slanderers, without self-control, savage, not lovers of good,
3:4 卖主卖友者、卤莽行事的、为高傲所蒙蔽的，宁愿作爱宴乐者，不愿作爱神者；
Traitors, reckless, blinded with pride, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God,
3:5 有敬虔的外形，却否认了敬虔的能力；这等人你要躲开。
Having an outward form of godliness, though denying its power; from these also turn away.
3:6 他们中间有人偷进人家，牢笼无知的妇女；这些妇女为罪堆压，被各样私欲牵引，
For of these are those who creep into houses and take captive silly women heaped with sins, who are led by various desires
3:7 常常学习，终久不能认识真理。
And are always learning yet never able to come to the full knowledge of the truth.
3:8 雅尼和佯庇曾用什么方法抵挡摩西，这等人也照样抵挡真理；他们是心思败坏了的人，在信仰上是不蒙称许的。
And in the manner that Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses, so these also oppose the truth; men corrupted in mind, disapproved concerning the faith.
3:9 然而他们不能再这样下去，因为他们的无知，必在众人面前完全显露出来，像那二人一样。
But they will not advance farther, for their folly will be completely manifest to all, as also the folly of those became.
3:10 但你已经紧紧跟随了我的教训、品行、志向、信心、宽容、爱心、忍耐、
But you have closely followed my teaching, conduct, purpose, faith, long-suffering, love, endurance,
3:11 逼迫、苦难，就是我在安提阿、以哥念、路司得所遭遇的；我所忍受的是何等的逼迫，但从这一切之中，主都把我救出来了。
Persecutions, sufferings, such as befell me in Antioch, in Iconium, in Lystra. Such persecutions I bore, and out of them all the Lord delivered me.
3:12 不但如此，凡立志在基督耶稣里过敬虔生活的，也都要受逼迫。
And indeed all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted.
3:13 只是恶人和骗子，必进而变为更恶，他们迷惑人，也受人迷惑。
But evil men and impostors will grow worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived.
3:14 但你所学习、所确信的，要活在其中，因为知道你是跟谁学的，
But you, continue in the things which you have learned and have been assured of, knowing from which ones you have learned them
3:15 并且知道你是从小明白圣经；这圣经能使你借着相信基督耶稣，有得救的智慧。
And that from a babe you have known the sacred writings, which are able to make you wise unto salvation through the faith which is in Christ Jesus.
3:16 圣经都是神的呼出，对于教训、督责、改正、在义上的教导，都是有益的，
All Scripture is God-breathed and profitable for teaching, for conviction, for correction, for instruction in righteousness,
3:17 叫属神的人得以完备，为着各样的善工，装备齐全。
That the man of God may be complete, fully equipped for every good work.
提摩太后书 2 Timothy 第 4 章
4:1 我在神并那将要审判活人死人的基督耶稣面前，凭着祂的显现和祂的国度，郑重的嘱咐你，
I solemnly charge you before God and Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by His appearing and His kingdom:
4:2 务要传道；无论得时不得时，都要预备好，用全般的恒忍和教训，叫人知罪自责，谴责人，劝勉人。
Proclaim the word; be ready in season and out of season; convict, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and teaching.
4:3 因为时候要到，那时人必容不下健康的教训，反而耳朵发痒，随着自己的情欲，给自己堆积起教师来；
For the time will come when they will not tolerate the healthy teaching; but according to their own lusts they will heap up to themselves teachers, having itching
ears,
4:4 并且转耳离弃真理，偏向虚构无稽之事。
And they will turn away their ear from the truth and will be turned aside to myths.
4:5 你却要凡事谨慎自守，忍受苦难，作传福音者的工作，尽你的职事。
But you, be sober in all things, suffer evil, do the work of an evangelist, fully accomplish your ministry.
4:6 我现在被浇奠，我离世的时候到了。
For I am already being poured out, and the time of my departure is at hand.
4:7 那美好的仗我已经打过了，当跑的赛程我已经跑尽了，当守的信仰我已经守住了；
I have fought the good fight; I have finished the course; I have kept the faith.
4:8 从此以后，有公义的冠冕为我存留，就是主，那公义的审判者，在那日要赏赐我的；不但赏赐我，也赏赐凡爱祂显现的人。
Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, with which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will recompense me in that day, and not only me but also
all those who have loved His appearing.
4:9 你要尽快的到我这里来；
Be diligent to come to me quickly;
4:10 因为底马爱了现今的世代，就离弃我往帖撒罗尼迦去了；革勒士往加拉太去，提多往挞马太去。
For Demas has abandoned me, having loved the present age, and has gone to Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia; Titus to Dalmatia.
4:11 独有路加同我在一起。你要接得马可，带他同来，因为他在服事上对我有用处。
Luke alone is with me. Take Mark and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for the ministry.
4:12 我已经打发推基古往以弗所去。
But Tychicus I have sent to Ephesus.
4:13 我在特罗亚留于加布的那件外衣，你来的时候要带来，还有那些书卷，尤其是那些皮卷。
The cloak which I left in Troas with Carpus, bring when you come, and the scrolls, especially the parchments.
4:14 铜匠亚力山大多多的害我，主必照他所行的报应他。
Alexander the coppersmith did many evil things to me; the Lord will recompense him according to his works.
4:15 你也要防备他，因为他极力抵挡我们的话。
You also guard against him, for he greatly opposed our words.
4:16 我初次申诉的时候，没有人在旁支持我，众人都离弃我；但愿这罪不归与他们。
At my first defense no one was with me to support me, but all abandoned me. May it not be counted against them.
4:17 惟有主与我站在一起，加给我能力，使福音借着我传得完全，叫一切的外邦人都可听见；我也从狮子口里被救出来。
But the Lord stood with me and empowered me that through me the proclamation of the gospel might be fully accomplished and all the Gentiles might hear; and
I was delivered out of the lion's mouth.
4:18 主必救我脱离各样凶恶的事，也必救我进入祂属天的国。愿荣耀归与祂，直到永永远远。阿们。
The Lord will deliver me from every evil work and will save me into His heavenly kingdom, to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
4:19 问百基拉、亚居拉、和阿尼色弗一家的人安。
Greet Prisca and Aquila and the house of Onesiphorus.
4:20 以拉都在哥林多住下了。特罗非摩病了，我就留他在米利都。
Erastus remained in Corinth, and Trophimus I left at Miletus sick.
4:21 你要赶紧在冬天以前来。友布罗、布田、利奴、革老底亚和众弟兄，都问你安。
Be diligent to come before winter. Eubulus greets you, as well as Pudens and Linus and Claudia and all the brothers.
4:22 愿主与你的灵同在。愿恩典与你同在。
The Lord be with your spirit. Grace be with you.