12. 列王纪下 2 Kings
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 1 章
1:1 亚哈死后，摩押背叛以色列。
And Moab rebelled against Israel after the death of Ahab.
1:2 一日，亚哈谢从撒玛利亚王宫楼上的窗户掉下来，就病了；于是差遣使者，说，你们去问以革伦的神巴力西卜，我这病能好不能好。
And Ahaziah fell through the lattice in his upper chamber which was in Samaria and became ill. And he sent messengers and said to them, Go and inquire of
Baal-zebub the god of Ekron whether I will recover from this sickness.
1:3 但耶和华的使者对提斯比人以利亚说，你起来，上去迎着撒玛利亚王的使者，对他们说，你们去问以革伦神巴力西卜，岂因以色列中没有神么？
But the Angel of Jehovah said to Elijah the Tishbite, Arise; go up to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria and say to them, Is it because there is no God in
Israel that you go to inquire of Baal-zebub the god of Ekron?
1:4 所以耶和华如此说，你必不下你所上的床，必定要死。以利亚就去了。
Now therefore thus says Jehovah, You shall not come down from the bed on which you have gone up, but you shall surely die. And Elijah departed.
1:5 使者回来见王，王问他们说，你们为什么回来？
And when the messengers returned to him, he said to them, Why have you returned?
1:6 使者对他说，有一个人上来迎着我们，对我们说，去罢，你们回去见差你们来的王，对他说，耶和华如此说，你差人去问以革伦神巴力西卜，岂因以
色列中没有神么？所以你必不下你所上的床，必定要死。
And they said to him, A man came up to meet us and said to us, Go and return to the king who sent you, and say to him, Thus says Jehovah, Is it because there
is no God in Israel that you send men to inquire of Baal-zebub the god of Ekron? Therefore you shall not come down from the bed on which you have gone up,
but you shall surely die.
1:7 王问他们说，那上来迎着你们，告诉你们这话的，是怎样的人？
And he said to them, What sort of man was he who came up to meet you and spoke these words to you?
1:8 他们说，他身穿毛衣，腰束皮带。王说，这是提斯比人以利亚。
And they said to him, A hairy man, and he was girded with a leather girdle around his loins. And he said, It is Elijah the Tishbite.
1:9 于是王差遣一个五十夫长，带着他那五十人去见以利亚。他上到以利亚那里，以利亚正坐在山顶上。五十夫长对他说，神人哪，王说，你下来！
And he sent a captain of fifty with his fifty to him. And the captain went up to him, and there he was, sitting on the top of the hill. And he said to him, O man of
God, the king says, Come down!
1:10 以利亚回答五十夫长说，我若是神人，愿火从天上降下来，烧灭你和你那五十人。
And Elijah answered and said to the captain of fifty, If I am a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty. Then fire came down
from heaven and consumed him and his fifty.
1:11 于是有火从天上降下来，烧灭五十夫长和他那五十人。王又差遣另一个五十夫长，带着他那五十人去见以利亚。五十夫长对以利亚说，神人哪，王如
此说，你快快下来。
And again the king sent another captain of fifty with his fifty. And the captain answered and said to him, O man of God, thus says the king, Come down quickly.
1:12 以利亚回答他们说，我若是神人，愿火从天上降下来，烧灭你和你那五十人。
And Elijah answered and said to them, If I am the man of God, let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty. And the fire of God came down
from heaven and consumed him and his fifty.
1:13 于是神的火从天上降下来，烧灭五十夫长和他那五十人。王又差遣第三个五十夫长，带着他那五十人去。这五十夫长上去，一来到就双膝跪在以利亚
面前，恳求他说，神人哪，愿我的性命和你这五十个仆人的性命，在你眼中看为宝贵。
And again the king sent a captain of a third fifty with his fifty. And the third captain of fifty went up; and he came and fell on his knees before Elijah, and he
entreated him and said to him, O man of God, may my soul and the soul of these fifty servants of yours be precious in your sight.
1:14 已经有火从天上降下来，烧灭先前那两个五十夫长，和他们各自带的五十人；现在愿我的性命在你眼中看为宝贵。
Already fire has come down from heaven and consumed the first two captains of fifty and their fifties; and now may my soul be precious in your sight.
1:15 耶和华的使者对以利亚说，你同着他下去，不要怕他。以利亚就起来，同着他下去见王。
And the Angel of Jehovah said to Elijah, Go down with him; do not be afraid of him. And he rose up and went down with him to the king.
1:16 以利亚对王说，耶和华如此说，你差人去问以革伦神巴力西卜，岂因以色列中没有神可以求祂的话么？所以你必不下你所上的床，必定要死。
Then he said to him, Thus says Jehovah, Because you sent messengers to inquire of Baal-zebub the god of Ekron-was it because there is no God in Israel to
inquire of His word?-therefore you shall not come down from the bed on which you have gone up, but you shall surely die.
1:17 亚哈谢果然死了，正如以利亚所说耶和华的话。因他没有儿子，他兄弟约兰接替他作王，正在犹大王约沙法的儿子约兰第二年。
And he died according to the word of Jehovah which Elijah had spoken. And Jehoram began to reign in his place in the second year of Jehoram the son of
Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, because he had no son.
1:18 亚哈谢其余所行的事，岂不都写在以色列诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Ahaziah which he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 2 章
2:1 耶和华要用旋风接以利亚升天的时候，以利亚与以利沙从吉甲前行。
And when Jehovah was about to take up Elijah by a whirlwind into heaven, Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal.
2:2 以利亚对以利沙说，你留在这里，因耶和华已差遣我到伯特利去。
And Elijah said to Elisha, Stay here, for Jehovah has sent me as far as Bethel. And Elisha said, As Jehovah lives and as your soul lives, I will not leave you. So they
went down to Bethel.
2:3 以利沙说，我指着永活的耶和华和你的性命起誓，我必不离开你。于是二人下到伯特利。在伯特利的申言者门徒出来见以利沙，对他说，耶和华今日
要将你的师傅提上去离开你，你知道么？他说，我也知道，你们不要作声。
Then the sons of the prophets who were in Bethel came out to Elisha and said to him, Do you know that Jehovah will take away your master from over your head
today? And he said, I too know it; be silent.
370
2:4 以利亚对他说，以利沙，你留在这里，因耶和华已差遣我往耶利哥去。以利沙说，我指着永活的耶和华和你的性命起誓，我必不离开你。于是二人到
了耶利哥。
And Elijah said to him, Elisha, stay here, for Jehovah has sent me to Jericho. And he said, As Jehovah lives and as your soul lives, I will not leave you. And they
came to Jericho.
2:5 在耶利哥的申言者门徒就近以利沙，对他说，耶和华今日要将你的师傅提上去离开你，你知道么？他说，我也知道，你们不要作声。
And the sons of the prophets who were at Jericho approached Elisha and said to him, Do you know that Jehovah will take away your master from over your head
today? And he said, I too know it; be silent.
2:6 以利亚对以利沙说，你留在这里，因耶和华已差遣我往约但河去。以利沙说，我指着永活的耶和华和你的性命起誓，我必不离开你。于是二人继续前
行。
And Elijah said to him, Stay here, for Jehovah has sent me to the Jordan. And he said, As Jehovah lives and as your soul lives, I will not leave you. So the two of
them went on.
2:7 申言者的门徒中有五十人也去了，远远的站在他们对面；二人在约但河边站住。
And fifty men from the sons of the prophets went and stood opposite them at a distance, while the two of them stood by the Jordan.
2:8 以利亚将自己的外衣卷起来击打河水，水就左右分开，二人走干地而过。
And Elijah took his mantle and wrapped it together and struck the water; and it parted to this side and that, so that the two of them crossed over on dry ground.
2:9 过去之后，以利亚对以利沙说，我被接去离开你以前，该为你作什么，你只管求我。以利沙说，愿你的灵加倍的临到我。
And when they had crossed over, Elijah said to Elisha, Ask what I should do for you before I am taken from you. And Elisha said, Let a double portion of your spirit
be upon me.
2:10 以利亚说，你所求的是件难事。虽然如此，我被接去离开你的时候，你若看见我，事就必这样为你成就；不然，必不成就。
And he said, You have asked a hard thing. If you see me when I am taken from you, so will it be to you; but if not, it will not be so.
2:11 他们正走着说话，忽有火车火马将二人隔开，以利亚就乘旋风升天去了。
And as they went on and talked, suddenly a chariot of fire and horses of fire appeared; and they separated the two of them. And Elijah went up by a whirlwind
into heaven.
2:12 以利沙看见，就呼叫说，我父阿，我父阿，以色列的战车马兵阿！于是不再看见他了。以利沙拿着自己的衣服，撕为两片。
And Elisha saw it and cried, My father, my father, the chariot of Israel and its horsemen! And he did not see him anymore. And he grasped his clothes and tore
them in two pieces.
2:13 他拾起以利亚身上掉下来的外衣，回去站在约但河岸边。
And he picked up Elijah's mantle, which had fallen from him, and returned and stood by the bank of the Jordan.
2:14 他拿着以利亚身上掉下来的外衣击打河水，说，耶和华以利亚的神在那里呢？击打河水之后，水也左右分开，以利沙就过去了。
And he took Elijah's mantle, which had fallen from him, and struck the water and said, Where is Jehovah, the God of Elijah? And when he also struck the water, it
parted to this side and that, and Elisha crossed over.
2:15 在耶利哥的申言者门徒从对面看见他，就说，以利亚的灵停在以利沙身上了。他们就来迎接他，在他面前俯伏于地，
And when the sons of the prophets who were at Jericho opposite him saw him, they said, The spirit of Elijah rests on Elisha. And they came to meet him and
bowed themselves to the ground before him.
2:16 对他说，你的仆人们这里有五十个壮士，求你让他们去寻找你师傅，恐怕耶和华的灵将他提起来，投在某山某谷。以利沙说，你们不必打发人去。
And they said to him, Here with your servants are fifty strong men; let them go and seek your master, lest the Spirit of Jehovah has taken him up and cast him
upon some mountain or into some valley. And he said, You shall not send them.
2:17 他们再三催促，直到他不好意思推辞，他就说，你们打发人去罢。他们便打发五十人去，寻找了三天，也没有找着。
But when they urged him until he was ashamed, he said, Send them. So they sent fifty men, who searched for three days but did not find him.
2:18 他们回到以利沙那里，那时以利沙还留在耶利哥；他对他们说，我岂没有告诉你们不必去么？
And they returned to him while he stayed at Jericho; and he said to them, Did I not say to you, Do not go?
2:19 耶利哥城的人对以利沙说，这城的地势美好，我主看见了；只是水恶劣，以致地不出产。
And the men of the city said to Elisha, The location of the city is good, as my lord can see; but the water is bad, and the land is barren.
2:20 以利沙说，你们把一个新瓶里面装盐，拿来给我。他们就拿来给他。
And he said, Bring me a new jar, and put salt in it. And they brought it to him.
2:21 他出到水源，将盐倒在那里，说，耶和华如此说，我治好了这水，这里必不再有死亡或不出产的事。
And he went out to the source of the water and threw salt there; and he said, Thus says Jehovah, I have healed this water; there will not be any more death or
barrenness from there.
2:22 于是那水治好了，直到今日，正如以利沙所说的话。
So the water has been healed to this day, according to the word of Elisha, which he spoke.
2:23 以利沙从那里上伯特利去，正沿路上去的时候，有些童子从城里出来，讥诮他说，秃头的上去罢，秃头的上去罢。
And he went up from there to Bethel. And as he was going up on the way, some little boys came out from the city and mocked him and said to him, Go up,
baldhead; go up, baldhead.
2:24 他回头看着他们，在耶和华的名里咒诅他们。于是有两只母熊从林中出来，撕裂他们中间四十二个孩子。
And he turned around and looked at them and cursed them in the name of Jehovah. Then two female bears came out of the woods and tore up forty-two
children among them.
2:25 以利沙从伯特利上迦密山，又从迦密山回到撒玛利亚。
And he went from there to Mount Carmel, and from there he returned to Samaria.
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 3 章
3:1 犹大王约沙法十八年，亚哈的儿子约兰在撒玛利亚登基作以色列王；他作王共十二年。
Now Jehoram the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria in the eighteenth year of Jehoshaphat the king of Judah, and he reigned twelve years.
3:2 他行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，只是不像他父亲和母亲所行的，因为除掉他父亲所造巴力的柱像。
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah, but not as his father and his mother had done, for he put away the pillar of Baal, which his father had made.
371
3:3 然而，他紧贴着尼八的儿子耶罗波安使以色列人犯罪的罪，总不离开。
Yet he clung to the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, by which he caused Israel to sin; he did not turn away from them.
3:4 摩押王米沙牧养许多羊，每年将十万只羊羔，和十万只公绵羊的毛，给以色列王进贡。
Now Mesha the king of Moab was a sheep breeder, who would pay as tribute to the king of Israel one hundred thousand lambs and the wool of one hundred
thousand rams.
3:5 亚哈死后，摩押王背叛以色列王。
And when Ahab died, the king of Moab rebelled against the king of Israel.
3:6 那时约兰王出撒玛利亚，点阅全以色列的人。
And King Jehoram went forth from Samaria on that day and mustered all Israel.
3:7 他前行的时候，差人去见犹大王约沙法，说，摩押王背叛我，你肯同我去攻打摩押么？他说，我肯上去，你我不分彼此，我的民如同你的民，我的马
如同你的马。
And he went and sent to Jehoshaphat the king of Judah, saying, The king of Moab has rebelled against me. Will you go with me to Moab to fight? And he said, I
will go up: I will be as you are; my people will be as your people; my horses, as your horses.
3:8 约兰说，我们从那条路上去呢？约沙法说，从以东旷野的路上去。
And he said, By which way shall we go up? And he said, By the way of the wilderness of Edom.
3:9 于是，以色列王、犹大王、和以东王起行，绕道走了七日的路程；军队和所带的牲口没有水喝。
So the king of Israel and the king of Judah and the king of Edom set out, and they circled about on a journey of seven days. And there was no water for the army
or for the animals that followed them.
3:10 以色列王说，哀哉！耶和华召我们这三王来，乃要把我们交在摩押人的手里。
And the king of Israel said, Alas! Jehovah has called these three kings together to deliver them into the hand of Moab.
3:11 但约沙法说，这里没有耶和华的申言者，我们可以藉他求问耶和华么？以色列王的一个臣子回答说，这里有沙法的儿子以利沙，就是从前服事以利亚
的。
But Jehoshaphat said, Is there no prophet of Jehovah here, by whom we may inquire of Jehovah? And one of the servants of the king of Israel answered and said,
Elisha the son of Shaphat is here, who used to pour water on the hands of Elijah.
3:12 约沙法说，他有耶和华的话。于是以色列王和约沙法，并以东王，都下去见他。
And Jehoshaphat said, The word of Jehovah is with him. And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat and the king of Edom went down to him.
3:13 以利沙对以色列王说，我与你何干？去见你父亲的申言者和你母亲的申言者罢。以色列王对他说，不要这样说，因为耶和华召我们这三王来，乃要把
我们交在摩押人的手里。
And Elisha said to the king of Israel, What do I have in this that concerns you? Go to the prophets of your father and to the prophets of your mother. And the king
of Israel said to him, No; for Jehovah has called these three kings together to deliver them into the hand of Moab.
3:14 以利沙说，我指着我所侍立在祂面前，永活的万军之耶和华起誓，我若不看犹大王约沙法的情面，必不理你，不睬你。
And Elisha said, As Jehovah of hosts, before whom I stand, lives, were it not that I regard Jehoshaphat the king of Judah, I would not even look at you or see you.
3:15 现在你们给我找一个弹琴的来。那弹琴的一弹，耶和华的手就临到以利沙。
But now bring me a musician. And as the musician played, the hand of Jehovah came upon him.
3:16 他便说，耶和华如此说，你们要在这谷中到处挖沟；
And he said, Thus says Jehovah, Make this valley trenches, all trenches!
3:17 因为耶和华如此说，你们不见风，不见雨，但这谷必满了水，使你们和牛羊、牲口有水喝。
For thus says Jehovah, You will not see wind, nor will you see rain; but that valley will be filled with water, and you will drink, as will your cattle and your animals.
3:18 在耶和华眼中这还算为小事，祂也必将摩押人交在你们手中。
And this is but a small thing in the sight of Jehovah, for He will deliver Moab into your hand.
3:19 你们必攻破一切坚城美邑，砍伐各种佳树，塞住一切水泉，用石头蹧蹋一切良田。
And you will strike every fortified city and every choice city, and every good tree you will fell, and all the springs of water you will stop, and every fine portion of
land you will mar with stones.
3:20 次日早晨，约在献素祭的时候，有水从以东方面而来，那地就满了水。
And in the morning, at about the time of the offering up of the meal offering, there came water from the direction of Edom, and the land was filled with water.
3:21 摩押众人听见这三王上来要与他们争战，凡及龄能束上战衣的，都被召集站在边界上。
Now when all Moab heard that the kings had come up to fight against them, any of those old enough to strap on armor and upward were called out; and they
stationed themselves at the border.
3:22 次日早晨，日光照在水上，摩押人清早起来，看见对面水红如血，
And when they rose up early in the morning, the sun shone on the water; and the Moabites saw the water before them as red as blood.
3:23 就说，这是血阿；必是三王彼此攻击，互相残杀。摩押人哪，现在去抢夺财物罢！
And they said, This is blood; the kings have no doubt fought against themselves, and each has struck down his companion. Now therefore to the spoil, O Moab!
3:24 摩押人到了以色列营，以色列人就起来攻打他们，以致他们在以色列人面前逃跑。以色列人进入摩押人的境内，击杀他们，
And when they came to the camp of Israel, the Israelites rose up and struck the Moabites, so that they fled before them. And they went among them and struck
down the Moabites.
3:25 拆毁摩押的城邑，各人抛石填满一切良田，塞住一切水泉，砍伐各种佳树，只剩下吉珥哈列设的石墙，甩石的兵包围攻打那城。
And they overturned the cities, and on every fine portion of land each man threw his stone and filled it up, and every spring of water they stopped, and every
good tree they felled. Only at Kir-hareseth did they leave stones standing, but the slingers encircled it and struck it.
3:26 摩押王见战事激烈，难以对敌，就率领七百拿刀的兵，要冲过阵去到以东王那里，却是不能；
And when the king of Moab saw that the battle went hard against him, he took with him seven hundred men who drew the sword, in order to break through to
the king of Edom; but they were not able to do it.
3:27 便将那应当接续他作王的长子，在城墙上献为燔祭。以色列人遭遇大怒，于是三王离开摩押王，各回本地去了。
So he took his firstborn son, who was to reign in his place, and offered him up as a burnt offering upon the wall. And great wrath came upon Israel, and they
departed from him and returned to their land.
372
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 4 章
4:1 有一个申言者门徒的妻子哀求以利沙说，你仆人我丈夫死了，他敬畏耶和华是你知道的。现在有债主来，要取我两个儿子作他的奴仆。
Now a certain woman from among the wives of the sons of the prophets cried out to Elisha, saying, Your servant my husband is dead, and you know that your
servant feared Jehovah. And the creditor has come to take my two children to himself as servants.
4:2 以利沙问她说，我可以为你作什么呢？你告诉我，你家里有什么？
And Elisha said to her, What shall I do for you? Tell me, what do you have in your house? And she said, Your servant has nothing at all in the house, except a jar
of oil.
4:3 她说，婢女家中除了一瓶油之外，没有什么。以利沙说，你去，到外面向你众邻舍借空器皿，不要少借；
And he said, Go and borrow vessels outside, from all your neighbors, empty vessels, and not just a few.
4:4 然后进屋里去，把自己和儿子关在门内，你要将油倒在所有的器皿里，倒满了的放在一边。
Then go in and shut the door behind you and your sons, and pour out into all those vessels; and each one you fill set aside.
4:5 于是妇人离开以利沙去了，把自己和儿子关在门内；儿子把器皿拿给她，她就倒油。
So she went away from him and shut the door behind herself and her sons; and they brought the vessels to her, and she poured out into them.
4:6 器皿都满了，她对儿子说，再给我拿器皿来。儿子说，再没有器皿了。油就止住了。
And when she had filled the vessels, she said to her son, Bring me another vessel. But he said to her, There is no other vessel. And the oil stopped.
4:7 妇人去告诉神人，神人说，你去卖油还债，所剩的，你和你儿子可以靠着度日。
And she went and told the man of God. And he said, Go and sell the oil, and pay your debt; and you and your sons can live off the rest.
4:8 一日，以利沙经过书念，在那里有一个大户的妇人，强留他吃饭。
And one day Elisha was passing through Shunem; and there was a wealthy woman there, who compelled him to have a meal. So whenever he passed through,
he would turn aside and have a meal there.
4:9 此后，以利沙每从那里经过，就转进去吃饭。妇人对丈夫说，我看出那常从我们这里经过的是圣别的神人。
And she said to her husband, Now I know that this man who continually passes through unto us is a holy man of God.
4:10 我们可以为他盖一间小楼房，在其中安放床榻、桌子、椅子和灯，他来到我们这里，就可以进去歇息。
Let us make a little walled upper room and put a bed and a table and a chair and a lamp for him; and when he comes to us, he can turn aside there.
4:11 一日，以利沙来到那里，就进那楼躺卧。
Then one day he came there, and he turned aside into the upper room and lay down there.
4:12 以利沙对仆人基哈西说，你叫这书念妇人来。他就把妇人叫了来，妇人站在以利沙面前。
And he said to Gehazi his attendant, Call this Shunammite. And he called her, and she stood before him.
4:13 以利沙告诉仆人，你对她说，你既为我们费了许多心思，有什么可以为你作的呢？有什么要替你向王或元帅说的么？她回答说，我在我本民中安居无
事。
And he said to him, Say to her, You have gone to all this trouble for us; what can be done for you? Should you be spoken of to the king or to the captain of the
army? And she said, I dwell in the midst of my people.
4:14 以利沙对仆人说，究竟当为她作什么呢？基哈西说，她没有儿子，她丈夫也老了。
And he said, What then can be done for her? And Gehazi said, Indeed she has no son, and her husband is old.
4:15 以利沙说，再叫她来。于是基哈西叫了她来，她就站在门口。
Then he said, Call her. And he called her, and she stood at the door.
4:16 以利沙说，到明年这时候，你必抱一个儿子。她说，不会的，神人，我主阿，不要欺哄你的婢女。
And he said, At this time next year you shall embrace a son. And she said, No, my lord, O man of God, do not deceive your servant.
4:17 妇人果然怀孕，到了次年那时候，生了一个儿子，正如以利沙对她所说的。
And the woman conceived and bore a son at that time the next year, as Elisha had told her.
4:18 孩子渐渐长大，一日出到他父亲和收割的人那里；
And when the child grew up, one day he went out to his father among the reapers;
4:19 他对父亲说，我的头阿！我的头阿！他父亲对仆人说，把他抱到他母亲那里。
And he said to his father, My head! My head! And he said to his attendant, Carry him to his mother.
4:20 仆人把他抱去，交给他母亲；孩子坐在母亲的膝上，到晌午就死了。
And when he had carried him in and brought him to his mother, the child lay upon her lap until noon, then died.
4:21 他母亲抱他上了楼，将他放在神人的床上，把他关在里面，就出来，
And she went up and laid him on the bed of the man of God, and she shut the door behind him and went out.
4:22 呼叫她丈夫说，请你打发一个仆人给我牵一匹驴来，我要快快的去见神人，就回来。
Then she called her husband and said, Send me one of the attendants and one of the donkeys that I may run to the man of God and return.
4:23 丈夫说，今日不是月朔，也不是安息日，你为何要去见他呢？妇人说，平安无事。
And he said, Why will you go to him today? It is neither the new moon nor the Sabbath. But she said, It will be fine.
4:24 于是她备上驴，对仆人说，你快快赶着走，我若没有告诉你，就不要为我慢下来。
Then she saddled the donkey and said to her attendant, Urge the beast, and do not restrain the ride for me unless I tell you.
4:25 妇人就往迦密山去见神人。神人远远的看见她，就对仆人基哈西说，书念的妇人在那里。
So she went. And she came to the man of God at Mount Carmel. And when the man of God saw her at a distance, he said to Gehazi his attendant, That is the
Shunammite over there.
4:26 你现在跑去迎接她，问她说，你平安么？你丈夫平安么？孩子平安么？她说，平安。
Run now to meet her, and say to her, Is it well with you? Is it well with your husband? Is it well with the child? And she said, It is well.
4:27 妇人来到山上神人那里，就抱住神人的脚。基哈西前来要推开她，但神人说，由她罢；因为她魂里愁苦，耶和华向我隐瞒，没有指示我。
And when she came to the man of God on the mountain, she clung to his feet. And Gehazi approached to pull her away, but the man of God said, Leave her
alone; for she is bitter in soul, and Jehovah has hidden from me and has not told me
4:28 妇人说，我何尝向我主求过儿子呢？我岂没有说过，不要欺哄我么？
And she said, Did I ask my lord for a son? Did I not say, Do not mislead me?
4:29 以利沙对基哈西说，你束上腰，手拿我的杖前去。若遇见人，不要向他问安；人若向你问安，也不要回答；要把我的杖放在孩子脸上。
373
Then he said to Gehazi, Gird up your loins, and take my staff in your hand, and go. If you meet anyone, do not greet him; and if anyone greets you, do not
respond to him. And lay my staff upon the face of the boy.
4:30 孩子的母亲说，我指着永活的耶和华和你的性命起誓，我必不离开你。于是以利沙起身，随着她去了。
And the mother of the boy said, As Jehovah lives and as your soul lives, I will not leave you. And he rose up and followed her.
4:31 基哈西在他们前面先去，把杖放在孩子脸上，却没有声音，也没有动静。基哈西就迎着以利沙回来，告诉他说，孩子还没有醒过来。
And Gehazi passed on before them and set the staff upon the boy's face, but there was no sound or reaction. Therefore he returned to meet him and told him,
saying, The boy has not awakened.
4:32 以利沙进了屋子，看见孩子死了，放在自己的床上。
And when Elisha went into the house, there was the dead boy, laid out on his bed.
4:33 他就关上门，只有自己和孩子在里面，他便向耶和华祷告。
And he went in and shut the door behind the two of them, and he prayed to Jehovah.
4:34 又上床伏在孩子身上，口对口，眼对眼，手对手；既俯伏在孩子身上，孩子的身体就渐渐温暖起来。
Then he got up and lay on the child, and he put his mouth on his mouth and his eyes on his eyes and his palms on his palms; and he stretched himself over him,
and the flesh of the child became warm.
4:35 然后他下来，在屋里来往走了一趟，又上去俯伏在孩子身上，孩子打了七个喷嚏，就睁开眼睛了。
And he got down and walked about in the house once to and fro. Then he got up and stretched himself over him, and the boy sneezed seven times. Then the boy
opened his eyes.
4:36 以利沙叫基哈西说，你叫那书念妇人来；于是基哈西去叫她。她来到以利沙那里，以利沙说，将你儿子抱起来。
And he called Gehazi and said, Call that Shunammite. So he called her. And when she came to him, he said, Take up your son.
4:37 妇人就进来，在以利沙脚前俯伏于地，向他下拜，然后抱起她儿子出去了。
And she came and fell at his feet and bowed herself to the ground. And she took up her son and went out.
4:38 以利沙又来到吉甲，那地正有饥荒。申言者的门徒坐在他面前，他对仆人说，你将大锅放在火上，给申言者的门徒熬汤。
Then Elisha returned to Gilgal, and there was a famine in the land. And the sons of the prophets sat before him. And he said to his attendant, Put on the big pot,
and boil some stew for the sons of the prophets.
4:39 有一个人出到田野掐菜，遇见一棵野瓜藤，就摘了一兜野瓜；他进来把瓜切了，搁在熬汤的锅中，他们并不知道那是什么东西。
And one went out into the field to gather herbs. And he found a wild vine and gathered from it a lapful of wild gourds. And he came and cut them up into the pot
of stew, though they did not know what they were.
4:40 他们把汤倒出来给众人吃；众人吃汤的时候，都喊叫说，神人哪，锅中有致死的毒物。众人就不能吃了。
And they poured out the stew for the men to eat. And while they were eating some of the stew, they cried out and said, O man of God, there is poison in the pot.
And they were not able to eat it.
4:41 以利沙说，拿点面来。他把面撒在锅中，说，倒出来，给众人吃罢。锅中就没有什么有害之物了。
And he said, Then bring some flour. And he threw it into the pot and said, Pour it out for the people that they may eat. And there was nothing harmful in the pot.
4:42 有一个人从巴力沙利沙来，把初熟大麦作的饼二十个，并新穗子，装在口袋里，带来给神人。以利沙说，把这些给众人吃。
Then a man came from Baal-shalishah and brought to the man of God bread of the firstfruits, twenty loaves of barley, and fresh ears of grain in his sack. And
Elisha said, Give it to the people that they may eat.
4:43 他的仆人说，我怎能把这一点摆在一百人面前呢？以利沙说，你只管给众人吃罢；因为耶和华如此说，众人必吃了，还剩下。
And his servant said, How can I set this before a hundred people? And he said, Give it to the people that they may eat; for thus says Jehovah, They shall eat and
have some left.
4:44 仆人就摆在众人面前，他们吃了，果然还剩下，正如耶和华所说的。
So he set it before them; and they ate, and there was some left, according to the word of Jehovah.
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 5 章
5:1 亚兰王的元帅乃缦，在他主人面前为大，极受尊宠，因耶和华曾藉他使亚兰人得胜；他又是大能的勇士，只是患了痲疯。
Now Naaman, the captain of the army of the king of Syria, was a great man in the sight of his master and highly respected, because by him Jehovah had given
deliverance to Syria. But the man, though a mighty man of valor, was a leper.
5:2 先前亚兰人结队出去，从以色列地掳了一个小女子，她就在乃缦的妻子面前伺候她。
And the Syrians had gone out in bands and had taken captive a little girl from the land of Israel, and she waited on Naaman's wife.
5:3 她对主母说，巴不得我主人在撒玛利亚的申言者面前，那么，他必能治好主人的痲疯。
And she said to her mistress, If only my master were with the prophet who is in Samaria! Then he would cure him of his leprosy.
5:4 乃缦进去，告诉他主人说，从以色列地来的女子如此如此说。
And Naaman went in and told his master, saying, Thus and thus did the girl who is from the land of Israel say.
5:5 亚兰王说，你可以去，我也会送信给以色列王。于是乃缦手中带着银子十他连得，金子六千舍客勒，衣裳十套，就去了；
Then the king of Syria said, Go then, and I will send a letter to the king of Israel. And he went and took with him ten talents of silver and six thousand shekels of
gold and ten changes of clothes.
5:6 且带信给以色列王，信上说，现在这信到了你那里，你就知道我打发臣仆乃缦去见你，是要你治好他的痲疯。
And he brought the letter to the king of Israel, which read: And now, when this letter comes to you, I am sending Naaman my servant to you, that you may cure
him of his leprosy.
5:7 以色列王读了信就撕裂衣服，说，我岂是神，能使人死、使人活呢？这人竟打发人来，叫我治好一个人的痲疯。你们留意，看看这人是怎样寻隙攻击
我。
And when the king of Israel read the letter, he tore his clothes and said, Am I God to put to death and to give life, that this man sends word to me to cure a man
of his leprosy? Therefore consider now and see how he seeks an occasion against me.
5:8 神人以利沙听见以色列王撕裂衣服，就打发人去见王，说，你为什么撕了衣服呢？可以使那人到我这里来，他就知道以色列中有申言者了。
And when Elisha the man of God heard that the king of Israel had torn his clothes, he sent word to the king, saying, Why have you torn your clothes? Let him
come to me, and he will know that there is a prophet in Israel.
374
5:9 于是，乃缦带着车马来了，站在以利沙的家门口。
And Naaman came with his horses and his chariot and stood at the entrance of the house of Elisha.
5:10 以利沙打发一个使者，对乃缦说，你去在约但河中沐浴七次，你的肉必复原，你就必得洁净。
And Elisha sent a messenger to him, saying, Go and wash in the Jordan seven times, and your flesh shall be restored; and you shall be clean.
5:11 乃缦却发怒走了，说，我想他必定出来见我，站着呼求耶和华他神的名，在患处以上摇手，治好这痲疯。
But Naaman became furious and went away and said, I thought, He will surely come out to me and stand and call on the name of Jehovah his God, and wave
his hand over the place and cure the leper.
5:12 大马色的河亚罢拿和法珥法，岂不比以色列的一切水更好么？我不能在那里沐浴，得洁净么？于是气忿忿的转身去了。
Are not the Abana and the Pharpar, the rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? Could I not wash in them and be clean? So he turned and went
away in a rage.
5:13 他的仆人进前来，对他说，我父阿，申言者若叫你作一件大事，你岂不作么？何况说你去沐浴而得洁净呢？
And his servants came near and spoke to him and said, My father, had the prophet told you to do some great thing, would you not have done it? How much
more then, when he says to you, Wash and be clean?
5:14 于是乃缦下去，照着神人的话，在约但河里浸了七次。他的肉复原，好像小孩子的肉，他就洁净了。
So he went down and dipped in the Jordan seven times according to the word of the man of God. And his flesh was restored to be like the flesh of a little boy,
and he was clean.
5:15 乃缦带着一切跟随他的人，回到神人那里；他进去，站在他面前，说，如今我知道，除了在以色列之外，全地并没有神。现在求你收下仆人的礼物。
And he returned to the man of God, he and all his company, and came and stood before him and said, Now I know that there is no God in all the earth except
with Israel. And now, please accept a present from your servant.
5:16 以利沙说，我指着永活的耶和华，就是我侍立在祂面前的那位起誓，我必不接受。
But he said, As Jehovah lives, before whom I stand, I will receive nothing. And Naaman urged him to take it, but he refused.
5:17 乃缦再三的求他，他却不接受。乃缦说，你若不肯接受，请将两骡子驮的土赐给你仆人，因你仆人必不再将燔祭或平安祭献与别神，只献给耶和华。
And Naaman said, Then if not, please let your servant be given two mule-loads of earth, for your servant will no more offer burnt offerings and sacrifices to other
gods, but to Jehovah only.
5:18 惟有这件事，愿耶和华饶恕你仆人：我主人进临门庙叩拜的时候，我用手搀他，我在临门庙也就叩拜。我在临门庙叩拜的这事，愿耶和华饶恕仆人。
In this matter may Jehovah pardon your servant: When my master goes into the house of Rimmon to bow down there and leans on my arm, and I bow down in
the house of Rimmon, when I bow down in the house of Rimmon, may Jehovah pardon your servant in this matter.
5:19 以利沙对他说，你平平安安的去罢。乃缦离开他走了不远，
And he said to him, Go in peace. And when he had gone from him a little way,
5:20 神人以利沙的仆人基哈西心里说，我主人白白放过这亚兰人乃缦，不从他手里受他带来的礼物，我指着永活的耶和华起誓，我必跑去追上他，向他要
些东西。
Gehazi, the attendant of Elisha the man of God said, Now my master has spared Naaman this Syrian by not receiving from his hand that which he brought. As
Jehovah lives, I will run after him and take something from him.
5:21 于是基哈西追赶乃缦。乃缦看见有人追赶，就急忙下车迎着他，说，都平安么？
So Gehazi pursued Naaman. And when Naaman saw him running after him, he alighted from the chariot to meet him and said, Is all well?
5:22 他说，都平安。我主人打发我来说，刚才有两个少年人，是申言者的门徒，从以法莲山地来见我；请你赐他们一他连得银子，两套衣裳。
And he said, All is well. My master has sent me, saying, Now at this moment two young men from among the sons of the prophets have come to me from the hill
country of Ephraim; please give them a talent of silver and two changes of clothes.
5:23 乃缦说，请接受二他连得。他再三的促请基哈西，并将二他连得银子包在两个口袋里，连同两套衣裳，交给两个仆人；他们就在基哈西前头抬着走。
And Naaman said, Please take two talents. And he urged him and bound two talents of silver in two bags, with two changes of clothes, and gave them to two of
his attendants; and they carried them before him.
5:24 到了山冈，基哈西从他们手中接过来，存放在屋里；然后打发他们离去，他们就走了。
And when he came to the hill, he took them from their hand and deposited them in the house. And he sent the men away, and they departed.
5:25 基哈西进去，站在他主人面前。以利沙问他说，基哈西，你从那里来？他说，仆人没有往那里去。
And he went in and stood before his master. And Elisha said to him, Where have you come from, Gehazi? And he said, Your servant has not gone anywhere.
5:26 以利沙对他说，那人下车转回迎你的时候，我的心岂没有去呢？这岂是接受银子和衣裳，买橄榄园、葡萄园、牛羊、仆婢的时候呢？
And he said to him, Did not my heart go with you when the man turned from his chariot to meet you? Is it a time to receive silver and to receive clothing and olive
groves and vineyards and sheep and oxen and male servants and female servants?
5:27 因此，乃缦的痲疯必沾附于你和你的后裔，直到永远。基哈西从以利沙面前出去，就患了痲疯，像雪那样白。
Therefore the leprosy of Naaman shall cleave to you and to your seed forever. And he went out from his presence a leper as white as snow.
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 6 章
6:1 申言者的门徒对以利沙说，看哪，我们同你所住的地方过于窄小，
Then the sons of the prophets said to Elisha, The place here where we dwell before you is too narrow for us.
6:2 求你让我们到约但河去，各人从那里取一根木料，在那里为我们自己造个处所居住。他说，你们去罢。
Let us go to the Jordan and each take a beam from there, and let us make for ourselves a place there, where we may dwell. And he said, Go.
6:3 有一人说，求你与仆人们同去。他说，我去。
And someone said, Please go with your servants. And he said, I will go.
6:4 于是以利沙与他们同去。他们到了约但河，就砍伐树木。
And he went with them. And when they came to the Jordan, they cut down the trees.
6:5 有一人砍伐木料的时候，斧头掉在水里，他就呼叫说，哀哉！我主阿，这斧子是借来的。
But as one was felling a beam, the ax head fell into the water; and he cried out and said, Alas, my master! It was borrowed.
6:6 神人问说，掉在那里了？他将那地方指给以利沙看。以利沙砍了一根木头，抛在那里，就使斧头浮上来。
And the man of God said, Where did it fall? And he showed him the place. And he cut down a stick and threw it there and made the iron float.
375
6:7 以利沙说，你自己拿上来罢。那人就伸手把斧头拿起来。
And he said, Take it up for yourself. And he stretched out his hand and took it.
6:8 亚兰王与以色列人争战，和他的臣仆商议说，我要在某处某处安营。
Now the king of Syria waged war against Israel. And he took counsel with his servants, saying, In such and such a place shall my camp be.
6:9 神人打发人去见以色列王，说，你要谨慎，不要从某处经过，因为亚兰人从那里下来了。
And the man of God sent word to the king of Israel, saying, Beware that you do not pass such a place, for the Syrians are going down there.
6:10 以色列王差人去窥探神人所告诉、所警戒他的地方，就在那里小心防备，没有受害，不只一两次。
And the king of Israel sent word to the place that the man of God told him about. So the king alerted the place and put it on guard not merely once or twice.
6:11 亚兰王因这事心里惊疑，召了臣仆来，对他们说，我们这里有谁帮助以色列王，你们不告诉我么？
And the heart of the king of Syria was enraged over this matter. And he called his servants and said to them, Tell me, which of us sides with the king of Israel?
6:12 有一个臣仆说，我主我王阿，无人帮助他；只有以色列中的申言者以利沙，将王在卧房里所说的话告诉以色列王了。
And one of his servants said, None, my lord O king; but Elisha, the prophet who is in Israel, tells the king of Israel the words which you speak in your bedroom.
6:13 王说，你们去看看他在那里，我好打发人去捉拿他。有人告诉王说，他在多坍。
And he said, Go and see where he is, that I may send for him and seize him. And it was told him, saying, He is in Dothan.
6:14 王就打发车马和大军往那里去，在夜间来到，包围那城。
And he sent horses and chariots and a massive army there. And they came by night and surrounded the city.
6:15 神人的侍从清早起来出去，看见车马军兵包围了城。少年人对神人说，哀哉！我主阿，我们怎样行才好？
And the servant of the man of God rose early and went out, and there it was: an army with horses and chariots surrounding the city. And his attendant said to
him, Alas, my master! What shall we do?
6:16 神人说，不要惧怕，因为与我们同在的，比与他们同在的更多。
And he said, Do not fear, for they who are with us are more than they who are with them.
6:17 以利沙祷告说，耶和华阿，求你开他的眼目，使他能看见。耶和华开少年人的眼目，他就看见满山有火车火马围绕以利沙。
And Elisha prayed and said, O Jehovah, open his eyes that he may see. And Jehovah opened the eyes of the attendant, and he saw: The mountain was full of
horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha.
6:18 亚兰人下到以利沙那里，以利沙祷告耶和华说，求你击打这民，使他们眼目昏迷。耶和华就照以利沙的话，击打他们，使他们眼目昏迷。
And when the Syrians came down to him, Elisha prayed to Jehovah and said, Strike this nation with blindness. And He struck them with blindness according to
Elisha's word.
6:19 以利沙对他们说，这不是那条路，也不是那座城；你们跟我去，我必领你们到所寻找的人那里。于是领他们到了撒玛利亚。
Then Elisha said to them, This is not the way, and this is not the city. Follow me, and I will bring you to the man whom you seek. And he brought them to Samaria.
6:20 他们进了撒玛利亚，以利沙祷告说，耶和华阿，求你开这些人的眼目，使他们能看见。耶和华开他们的眼目，他们就看见了，不料，是在撒玛利亚的
城中。
And when they came to Samaria, Elisha said, O Jehovah, open the eyes of these men that they may see. And Jehovah opened their eyes and they saw that they
were in the midst of Samaria.
6:21 以色列王见了他们，就问以利沙说，我父阿，我可以击杀他们么？我可以击杀他们么？
And when he saw them, the king of Israel said to Elisha, Shall I strike them? Shall I strike them, my father?
6:22 以利沙说，不可击杀他们。你用刀用弓掳来的，你岂会击杀他们么？当在他们面前设摆饮食，使他们吃喝，然后回到他们的主人那里。
And he said, You shall not strike them. Would you strike those whom you have taken captive by your sword and your bow? Set bread and water before them, and
let them eat and drink and go back to their master.
6:23 王就为他们预备了盛大的筵席；他们吃喝完了，王打发他们离去，他们就回到自己主人那里。从此，亚兰人不再结队侵犯以色列地了。
Then he prepared a great feast for them; and when they had eaten and drunk, he sent them away, and they went to their master. And the bands of Syria no
longer came into the land of Israel.
6:24 此后，亚兰王便哈达聚集他的全军，上来围困撒玛利亚。
And after this Ben-hadad the king of Syria gathered all his army and went up and besieged Samaria.
6:25 于是撒玛利亚有了大饥荒；城被围困，以致一个驴头卖八十舍客勒银子，半升鸽子粪卖五舍客勒银子。
And there was a great famine in Samaria; and they besieged it until the head of a donkey was sold for eighty pieces of silver and a fourth part of a kab of doves'
dung was sold for five pieces of silver.
6:26 一日，以色列王在城上经过，有一个妇人向他呼叫说，我主我王阿，求你帮助。
And once, as the king of Israel was passing by upon the wall, a woman cried out to him, saying, Help me, my lord O king.
6:27 王说，耶和华不帮助你，我从何处帮助你？是从禾场，或是从酒醡呢？
And he said, If Jehovah does not help you, from where shall I help you? From the threshing floor or the winepress?
6:28 王问妇人说，你有什么事？她说，这妇人对我说，将你的儿子交出来，我们今日可以吃，明日可以吃我的儿子。
And the king said to her, What is your trouble? And she said, This woman said to me, Give up your son that we may eat him today, and we will eat my son
tomorrow.
6:29 我们就煮了我的儿子吃了。次日我对她说，将你的儿子交出来，我们可以吃；她却将她的儿子藏起来了。
So we boiled my son and ate him. And on the next day I said to her, Give up your son that we may eat him; but she hid her son.
6:30 王听见妇人的话，就撕裂衣服；当时王在城上经过，百姓看见王贴身穿着麻衣。
And when the king heard the woman's words, he tore his clothes. And as he passed by upon the wall, the people could see that he had sackcloth upon his flesh
underneath.
6:31 王说，我今日若让沙法的儿子以利沙的头仍留在他身上，愿神重重的降罚与我。
And he said, God do so to me, and even more, if the head of Elisha the son of Shaphat remains on him today.
6:32 那时，以利沙正坐在家中，长老们也与他同坐。王从他面前伺候的人中打发一个人去；使者还没有到，以利沙就对长老们说，你们有没有看见这凶手
之子，打发人来取我的头？你们看着使者来到，就关上门，用门将他推出去。在他后头不是有他主人脚步的响声么？
Now Elisha was sitting in his house, and the elders were sitting with him. And the king had sent a man from before him. Before the messenger came to him, he
said to the elders, Do you see that this son of a murderer has sent someone to take away my head? When the messenger comes, see that you shut the door and
hold the door closed against him. Surely the sound of his master's feet is behind him.
6:33 以利沙还与他们说话的时候，使者下到他那里，王也到了，说，这灾祸是从耶和华那里来的，我何必再仰望耶和华呢？
376
While he was still talking with them, the king came down to him and said, This evil is from Jehovah; why should I wait for Jehovah any longer?
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 7 章
7:1 以利沙说，你们要听耶和华的话，耶和华如此说，明日约到这时候，在撒玛利亚城门那里，一细亚细面要卖一舍客勒银子，
And Elisha said, Hear the word of Jehovah: Thus says Jehovah, At about this time tomorrow a seah of fine flour will be sold for a shekel and two seahs of barley
will be sold for a shekel in the gate of Samaria.
7:2 二细亚大麦也要卖一舍客勒银子。有一个搀扶王的军长回答神人说，即便耶和华在天上开了窗户，也不能有这事。以利沙说，你必亲眼看见，却不得
吃。
Then the captain on whose arm the king leaned answered the man of God and said, Even if Jehovah made windows in heaven, could this thing happen? And he
said, Your eyes shall indeed see it, but you shall not eat from it.
7:3 在城门口那里有四个患痲疯的人，他们彼此说，我们为何坐在这里等死呢？
Now there were four leprous men at the entrance of the gate. And they said to one another, Why are we sitting here until we die?
7:4 我们若说，我们进城去罢，城里有饥荒，必死在那里；若坐在这里，也必是死。来罢，我们去投归亚兰人的军营，他们若留我们的活命，就活着；若
杀我们，就死了罢。
If we say, Let us enter the city, the famine is in the city and we will die there; but if we sit here, we will also die. Now therefore let us go and desert to the camp of
the Syrians. If they keep us alive, we will live; and if they kill us, we will die.
7:5 黄昏的时候，他们起来往亚兰人的营盘去；到了营边，不见一人在那里。
So they rose up in the twilight to go to the camp of the Syrians. And when they came to the edge of the camp of the Syrians, there was not a man there.
7:6 因为主使亚兰人的军队听见车马、大军的声音；他们就彼此说，这必是以色列王雇了赫人的诸王，和埃及人的诸王，来攻击我们。
Now the Lord had made the camp of the Syrians hear the sound of chariots and the sound of horses, the sound of a great army; and each man said to his
brother, Now the king of Israel has hired the kings of the Hittites and the kings of the Egyptians to come against us.
7:7 所以，在黄昏的时候他们起来逃跑，撇下帐棚、马、驴，营盘照旧，只顾逃命。
And they rose up and fled in the twilight, and they abandoned their tents and their horses and their donkeys, indeed the whole camp just as it was, and fled for
their lives.
7:8 那些患痲疯的到了营边，进了一座帐棚，吃了喝了，且从其中拿出金银和衣服来，去收藏了；回来又进了另一座帐棚，从其中拿出财物来，去收藏了。
So when these lepers came to the edge of the camp, they entered one tent and began to eat and drink. And they took silver and gold and clothing from there,
and went and hid And they went back and entered another tent and took from there and went and hid
7:9 那时，他们彼此说，我们所作的不对。今日是有好信息的日子，我们竟不作声。若等到天亮，罪孽必临到我们。来罢，我们现在就去向王家报信。
Then they said to one another, We are not doing right. This day is a day of good tidings, and we remain silent. If we delay until the morning's light, our iniquity will
find us out. Now therefore, come and let us go and tell the king's household.
7:10 他们就去呼叫守城门的，告诉他们说，我们到了亚兰人的营，不见一人在那里，也无人声，只有拴着的马和驴，帐棚都照旧。
So they went and called out to the gatekeepers of the city and told them saying, We went to the camp of the Syrians, and there was not a man there nor even the
sound of a man; but the horses were tied, and the donkeys were tied, and the tents were left as they were.
7:11 守城门的就宣告这消息，向里面的王家报信。
And the gatekeepers proclaimed it and told the king's household within.
7:12 王夜间起来，对臣仆说，我告诉你们亚兰人向我们如何行：他们知道我们饥饿，所以出到营外，埋伏在田野，说，以色列人出城的时候，我们就活捉
他们，并且得以进城。
And the king rose up in the night and said to his servants, I will tell you what the Syrians have done to us: They know that we are hungry; and they have gone out
from the camp to hide themselves in the field, saying, When they come out from the city, we will take them alive; and into the city we will go.
7:13 有一个臣仆回应说，我们不如用城里剩下之马中的五匹马，(这些马和城里剩下的以色列群众一样，也和那些已经灭绝的以色列群众一样，)打发人去
看看。
And one of his servants answered and said, Let some men take five of the remaining horses that are left in the city-they are like all the multitude of Israel which
remain in the city; they are like all the multitude of Israel which have perished-and let us send them and see.
7:14 于是取了两辆车和马，王差人去追寻亚兰军，说，你们去看看。
So they took two chariots with horses, and the king sent them after the army of Syria, saying, Go and see.
7:15 他们就追寻到约但河，看见满道上都是亚兰人急忙逃跑时丢弃的衣服和器具，使者就回来报告王。
And when they went after them toward the Jordan, all the way was full of garments and equipment that the Syrians had thrown off in their haste. And the
messengers returned and told the king.
7:16 众人就出去，掳掠亚兰人的营盘。于是一细亚细面卖一舍客勒银子，二细亚大麦也卖一舍客勒银子，正如耶和华所说的。
And the people went forth and plundered the camp of the Syrians. And a seah of fine flour was sold for a shekel, and two seahs of barley for a shekel, according
to the word of Jehovah.
7:17 王派搀扶他的那军长看守城门，众人在城门那里将他践踏，他就死了，正如神人在王下来见他的时候所说的。
Now the king had appointed the captain on whose arm he leaned to have charge of the gate; and the people trampled him in the gate, and he died as the man
of God had said, who spoke when the king had come down to him.
7:18 神人曾对王说，明日约到这时候，在撒玛利亚城门那里，二细亚大麦要卖一舍客勒银子，
So just as the man of God had spoken to the king, saying, Two seahs of barley will be sold for a shekel and a seah of fine flour will be sold for a shekel at about
this time tomorrow in the gate of Samaria;
7:19 一细亚细面也要卖一舍客勒银子；那军长回答神人说，即便耶和华在天上开了窗户，也不能有这事。神人说，你必亲眼看见，却不得吃。
And the captain had answered the man of God and said, Even if Jehovah made windows in heaven, could this thing happen? and the man of God had said, Your
eyes shall indeed see it, but you shall not eat from it;
7:20 这事果然发生在他身上；因为众人在城门那里将他践踏，他就死了。
So it happened to him; for the people trampled him in the gate, and he died.
377
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 8 章
8:1 以利沙曾对那儿子被他救活的妇人说，你和你的全家要起身往你可住的地方去住，因为耶和华已命饥荒来到，并且饥荒必临到这地七年之久。
Now Elisha had spoken to the woman whose son he had restored to life, saying, Rise up, and you and your household go and dwell wherever you can; for
Jehovah has called for a famine, and it will also come upon the land for seven years.
8:2 妇人就起身，照神人的话而行，带着全家离开，在非利士人之地住了七年。
So the woman rose up and did according to the word of the man of God. And she and her household went and dwelt in the land of the Philistines for seven years.
8:3 七年完了，那妇人从非利士人之地回来，就出去为自己的房屋田地哀告王。
And at the end of the seven years the woman returned from the land of the Philistines. And she went forth to cry unto the king for her house and her land.
8:4 那时王正与神人的仆人基哈西谈话，说，请你将以利沙所行的一切大事向我述说。
And the king was talking to Gehazi the attendant of the man of God, saying, Recount to me all the great things that Elisha has done.
8:5 基哈西正向王述说以利沙如何使死人复活，恰巧那儿子被以利沙救活的妇人，为自己的房屋田地来哀告王。基哈西说，我主我王阿，这就是那妇人，
这是她的儿子，就是以利沙所救活的。
And while Gehazi was telling the king how Elisha had restored the dead boy to life, there came the woman whose son he had restored to life, crying to the king
for her house and her land. And Gehazi said, My lord, O king, this is the woman, and this is her son whom Elisha restored to life.
8:6 王问那妇人，她就把那事向王述说。于是王为她派一个官员，说，凡属这妇人的都还给她，自从她离开这地直到今日，她田地的出产也都还给她。
And the king asked the woman, and she recounted it to him. And the king appointed a certain officer for her, saying, Restore all that was hers and all the produce
of her land from the day that she left the country until now.
8:7 以利沙来到大马色，亚兰王便哈达正患病。有人告诉王说，神人来到这里了。
And Elisha went to Damascus. And Ben-hadad the king of Syria was sick. And it was told him, saying, The man of God has come here.
8:8 王就对哈薛说，你带着礼物去见神人，托他求问耶和华，说，我这病能好不能好？
And the king said to Hazael, Take a gift with you, and go to meet the man of God; and inquire of Jehovah through him, saying, Will I recover from this sickness?
8:9 于是哈薛带着大马色的各样美物为礼物，用四十匹骆驼驮着，去见以利沙。到了他那里，站在他面前，说，你儿子亚兰王便哈达打发我来见你，他问
说，我这病能好不能好？
So Hazael went to meet him; and he took a gift with him, even all good things of Damascus, forty camel loads. And he came and stood before him and said,
Your son Ben-hadad the king of Syria has sent me to you, saying, Will I recover from this sickness?
8:10 以利沙对哈薛说，你去对他说，你必能好；但耶和华指示我，他必要死。
And Elisha said to him, Go and say to him, You shall certainly recover; however Jehovah has shown me that he shall certainly die.
8:11 神人定睛看着哈薛，甚至他羞惭。神人就哭了。
And he fixed his gaze and stared at him until he was ashamed. Then the man of God began to weep.
8:12 哈薛说，我主为什么哭？以利沙说，因为我知道你对以色列人所要行的恶：你要用火焚烧他们的保障，用刀杀死他们的壮丁，摔死他们的婴孩，剖开
他们的孕妇。
And Hazael said, Why are you weeping, my lord? And he said, Because I know the evil that you will do to the children of Israel: Their strongholds you will set on
fire, and their choice young men you will slay with the sword, and their little ones you will dash to pieces, and their pregnant women you will rip open.
8:13 哈薛说，你仆人算什么，不过是一条狗，怎能行这大事呢？以利沙说，耶和华指示我，你必作亚兰王。
And Hazael said, But what is your servant, who is but a dog, that he should do this great thing? And Elisha said, Jehovah has shown me that you will be king over
Syria.
8:14 哈薛离开以利沙，去见他的主人。主人问他说，以利沙对你说什么？哈薛说，他告诉我你必能好。
And he went from Elisha and came to his master. And his master said to him, What did Elisha say to you? And he said, He told me that you shall certainly recover.
8:15 次日，哈薛拿被衾浸在水中，蒙住王的脸，王就死了；于是哈薛篡了他的位。
But on the next day he took the heavy covering over Ben-hadad and dipped it in water and spread it over his face, so that he died; and Hazael reigned in his
place.
8:16 以色列王亚哈的儿子约兰第五年，犹大王约沙法还在位的时候，约沙法的儿子约兰登基作了犹大王。
Now in the fifth year of Joram the son of Ahab, the king of Israel, while Jehoshaphat was king of Judah, Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah,
began to reign.
8:17 约兰登基的时候年三十二岁，在耶路撒冷作王八年。
He was thirty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem.
8:18 他行以色列诸王所行的道路，与亚哈家所作的一样，因为他娶了亚哈的女儿为妻，行耶和华眼中看为恶的事。
And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel and as the house of Ahab had done, for Ahab's daughter was his wife; and he did what was evil in the sight of
Jehovah.
8:19 耶和华却因祂仆人大卫的缘故，不肯灭绝犹大，照祂所应许大卫的，永远为他的缘故赐灯光与他的子孙。
But Jehovah would not destroy Judah, because of David His servant, as He had promised him that for his sake He would provide a lamp for his children always.
8:20 约兰年间，以东人背叛，脱离了犹大的手下，自己立王。
In his days Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah, and they installed a king over themselves.
8:21 约兰率领他所有的战车过到撒益去；他夜间起来，攻击那些包围他的以东人和车兵长，但他的兵众逃回自己的帐棚去了。
So Joram crossed over to Zair, and all his chariots with him. And he rose up at night and struck the Edomites all around him and the captains of the chariots, but
his people fled to their tents.
8:22 这样，以东人背叛，脱离了犹大的手下，直到今日。那时立拿人也背叛了。
So Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah, as it is to this day. Then Libnah revolted at the same time.
8:23 约兰其余的事，凡他所行的，岂不都写在犹大诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Joram and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
8:24 约兰与他列祖同睡，与他列祖一同葬在大卫城。他儿子亚哈谢接续他作王。
And Joram slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David. And Ahaziah his son reigned in his place.
8:25 以色列王亚哈的儿子约兰十二年，犹大王约兰的儿子亚哈谢登基。
In the twelfth year of Joram the son of Ahab, the king of Israel, Ahaziah the son of Jehoram, the king of Judah, began to reign.
8:26 他登基的时候年二十二岁，在耶路撒冷作王一年。他母亲名叫亚他利雅，是以色列王暗利的孙女。
378
Ahaziah was twenty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Athaliah, the daughter of Omri
the king of Israel.
8:27 亚哈谢行亚哈家所行的道路，行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，与亚哈家一样，因为他是亚哈家的女婿。
And he walked in the way of the house of Ahab and did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah, like the house of Ahab; for he was a son-in-law to the house of
Ahab.
8:28 他与亚哈的儿子约兰同往基列的拉末去，与亚兰王哈薛争战。亚兰人打伤了约兰。
And he went with Joram the son of Ahab to fight with Hazael the king of Syria at Ramoth-gilead. And the Syrians struck Joram.
8:29 约兰王回到耶斯列，医治在拉末与亚兰王哈薛打仗的时候所受的伤。犹大王约兰的儿子亚哈谢，因为亚哈的儿子约兰病了，就下到耶斯列看望他。
And Joram the king returned to heal in Jezreel of his wounds that the Syrians had inflicted on him in Ramah when he fought with Hazael the king of Syria. And
Ahaziah the son of Jehoram, the king of Judah, went down to see Joram the son of Ahab in Jezreel, for he was sick.
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 9 章
9:1 申言者以利沙叫了一个申言者的门徒来，对他说，你束上腰，手拿这瓶膏油往基列的拉末去。
And Elisha the prophet called one of the sons of the prophets and said to him, Gird up your loins, and take this flask of oil in your hand, and go to Ramoth-gilead.
9:2 到了那里，你要去见宁示的孙子，约沙法的儿子耶户；你要进去，使他从同僚中起来，带他进入密室，
And when you arrive there, look there for Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat, the son of Nimshi; and go in and make him rise up from among his brothers, and bring
him to an inner room.
9:3 将瓶里的膏油倒在他头上，说，耶和华如此说，我已膏你作以色列的王。然后你就开门逃跑，不要迟延。
Then take the flask of oil and pour it on his head and say, Thus says Jehovah, I have anointed you king over Israel. Then open the door and flee, and do not delay.
9:4 于是那少年人，就是申言者的仆人，往基列的拉末去了。
So the young man, the prophet's attendant, went to Ramoth-gilead.
9:5 到了那里，看见众军长都坐着，就说，将军哪，我有话对你说。
And when he came, there the captains of the army were sitting. And he said, I have a word for you, O captain. And Jehu said, To which one of all of us? And he
said, To you, O captain.
9:6 耶户说，我们众人中，你要对那一个说呢？他说，将军哪，我要对你说。耶户就起来，进了屋子；少年人将膏油倒在他头上，对他说，耶和华以色列
的神如此说，我已膏你作耶和华之民以色列的王。
And he rose up and went into the house; and he poured the oil on his head and said to him, Thus says Jehovah the God of Israel, I have anointed you king over
the people of Jehovah, over Israel.
9:7 你要击杀你主人亚哈的家，我好在耶洗别身上伸她流我仆人众申言者和耶和华一切仆人之血的冤。
And you shall strike the house of Ahab your master, and I will avenge the blood of My servants the prophets and the blood of all the servants of Jehovah at the
hand of Jezebel.
9:8 亚哈全家必都灭亡，以色列中凡属亚哈的男丁，无论是困住的、自由的，我都要剪除；
And the whole house of Ahab will perish, and I will cut off from Ahab every male, bond and free, in Israel;
9:9 我要使亚哈的家像尼八儿子耶罗波安的家，又像亚希雅儿子巴沙的家。
And I will make the house of Ahab like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat and like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah;
9:10 至于耶洗别，狗必在耶斯列田里吃她，无人将她葬埋。说完了，少年人就开门逃跑了。
And the dogs shall eat Jezebel in the lot of Jezreel, and there will be none to bury her. Then he opened the door and fled.
9:11 耶户出来，回到他主人的臣仆那里，有人问他说，平安么？这狂妄的人来见你有什么事呢？他对他们说，你们认得那人，也知道他说什么。
And when Jehu came out to the servants of his master, someone said to him, Is all well? Why did this mad fellow come to you? And he said to them, You know
the man and his ranting.
9:12 他们说，这是假话；请你据实的告诉我们。他说，他如此如此对我说；他说，耶和华如此说，我已膏你作以色列的王。
And they said, That is a lie; please tell us. And he said, Thus and thus he said to me, saying, Thus says Jehovah, I have anointed you king over Israel.
9:13 他们就急忙各将自己的衣服铺在台阶上，使耶户坐在其上；他们吹角，说，耶户作王了！
Then they moved quickly; and every man took his garment and put it under him on the bare steps; and they blew the trumpet and said, Jehu is king!
9:14 这样，宁示的孙子，约沙法的儿子耶户，背叛约兰。(先是约兰和全以色列因为亚兰王哈薛的缘故，把守基列的拉末；
And Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat, the son of Nimshi, conspired against Joram. (Now Joram had been defending Ramoth-gilead, he and all Israel, because of
Hazael the king of Syria,
9:15 但约兰王回到耶斯列，医治与亚兰王哈薛打仗时，亚兰人使他受的伤。)耶户说，若合你们的意思，就不容人逃出城往耶斯列去报信。
But Jehoram the king returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Syrians had inflicted on him when he fought Hazael the king of Syria). And Jehu
said, If this is your desire, let no fugitive depart from the city and go and tell it in Jezreel.
9:16 于是耶户坐车往耶斯列去，因为约兰病卧在那里。犹大王亚哈谢已经下去看望他。
So Jehu rode off in a chariot and went to Jezreel, for Joram was lying ill there. And Ahaziah the king of Judah had come down to see Joram.
9:17 守望的人站在耶斯列的城楼上，看见耶户带着一大群人来，就说，我看见一大群人。约兰说，找一个骑马的，打发他去迎接他们，问说，平安不平安？
And the watchman stood on the tower in Jezreel and saw Jehu's multitude as he came, and he said, I see a multitude. And Jehoram said, Take a horseman, and
send him to meet them; and let him say, Is there peace?
9:18 骑马的就去迎接耶户，说，王如此问说，平安不平安？耶户说，平安不平安与你何干？你转到我后头罢。守望的人又报告说，使者到了他们那里，却
不回来。
So the horseman went to meet him and said, Thus says the king, Is there peace? And Jehu said, What do you have to do with peace? Turn behind me. And the
watchman reported, saying, The messenger went to them but did not return.
9:19 王又打发第二个骑马的去；这人到了他们那里，说，王如此问说，平安不平安？耶户说，平安不平安与你何干？你转到我后头罢。
And he sent out a second horseman; and he came to them and said, Thus says the king, Is there peace? And Jehu said, What do you have to do with peace?
Turn behind me.
9:20 守望的人又报告说，他到了他们那里，也不回来；车的赶法像宁示的孙子耶户的赶法，因为他赶得甚猛。
379
And the watchman reported, saying, He went to them but did not return; and the driving is like the driving of Jehu the son of Nimshi, because he drives furiously.
9:21 约兰说，套车！人就给他套车。以色列王约兰和犹大王亚哈谢，各坐自己的车出去迎接耶户，在耶斯列人拿伯的那块田里遇见他。
And Jehoram said, Yoke the chariot! And someone yoked his chariot. And Jehoram the king of Israel and Ahaziah the king of Judah went out, each in his chariot,
and went to meet Jehu; and they found him in the lot of Naboth the Jezreelite.
9:22 约兰见耶户就说，耶户阿，平安不平安？耶户说，你母亲耶洗别的淫行邪术这样多，还能有什么平安？
And when Jehoram saw Jehu, he said, Is there peace, Jehu? And he said, What peace can there be, so long as the harlotries and sorceries of Jezebel your
mother are so many?
9:23 约兰就转车逃跑，对亚哈谢说，亚哈谢阿，有阴谋！
And Jehoram turned the reins and tried to flee. And he said to Ahaziah, Treachery, Ahaziah!
9:24 耶户拉满了弓，射中约兰的脊背，箭从心窝穿出，约兰就曲身倒在车上。
And Jehu drew his bow with full strength and struck Jehoram between his arms; and the arrow went through his heart, and he sank down in his chariot.
9:25 耶户对他的军长毕甲说，你把他抬起来，抛在耶斯列人拿伯的那块田里。你当追想，你我一同坐车跟随他父亲亚哈的时候，耶和华论亚哈所说的谕言，
And Jehu said to Bidkar his officer, Take him up, and throw him in the lot of the field of Naboth the Jezreelite; for remember how you and I were riding together
behind Ahab his father, and Jehovah uttered this oracle against him:
9:26 说，我昨日实在看见了拿伯的血和他众子的血，我必在这块田里报应你；这是耶和华说的。现在你要照着耶和华的话，把他抬起来，抛在这块田里。
Surely I have seen the blood of Naboth and the blood of his sons yesterday, declares Jehovah; and I will repay you in this lot, declares Jehovah. And now, take
him up and throw him in the lot, according to the word of Jehovah.
9:27 犹大王亚哈谢见这光景，就沿着通往园亭的路逃跑；耶户追赶他，说，把这人也杀在车上。人就在靠近以伯莲的姑珥坡上击伤了他。他逃到米吉多，
就死在那里。
And Ahaziah the king of Judah saw this and fled toward the garden house; and Jehu pursued after him and said, Strike him too in his chariot. So they struck him
at the ascent of Gur, which is by Ibleam. And he fled to Megiddo and died there.
9:28 他的臣仆用车将他的尸首送到耶路撒冷，与他列祖一同葬在大卫城，他自己的坟墓里。
And his servants carried him in a chariot to Jerusalem and buried him in his grave with his fathers in the city of David.
9:29 亚哈谢登基作犹大王，是在亚哈的儿子约兰十一年。
And in the eleventh year of Joram the son of Ahab, Ahaziah began to reign over Judah.
9:30 耶户到了耶斯列；耶洗别听见，就涂眼、梳头，从窗户里往外观看。
And Jehu came to Jezreel; and Jezebel heard of it. And she put paint on her eyes and adorned her head, and she looked out the window.
9:31 耶户进门的时候，耶洗别说，杀自己主人的心利阿，平安么？
And as Jehu entered the gate, she said, Is all well, Zimri, you murderer of your master?
9:32 耶户仰脸向窗户观看，说，谁在我这边？谁？有两三个太监从窗户往外看他。
And he lifted up his face to the window and said, Who is on my side? Who? And two or three eunuchs looked out at him.
9:33 耶户说，把她扔下来。他们就把她扔下来。她的血溅在墙上和马上；于是耶户策马把她践踏了。
And he said, Throw her down. And they threw her down. And some of her blood spattered on the wall and on the horses, and he trampled her.
9:34 耶户进去，吃了喝了，就说，你们去料理这被咒诅的妇人，把她葬埋了，因为她是王的女儿。
And he came in, and ate and drank, and said, Attend now to this cursed woman and bury her, for she is a king's daughter.
9:35 他们就去葬埋她，却找不到她的全尸，只找到她的头骨、脚和手掌。
But when they went to bury her, they found no more of her than her skull and her feet and the palms of her hands.
9:36 他们回去告诉耶户，耶户说，这正是耶和华藉祂仆人提斯比人以利亚所说的话，说，在耶斯列那块田里，狗必吃耶洗别的肉；
And they returned and reported it to him. And he said, This is the word of Jehovah, which He spoke through His servant Elijah the Tishbite, saying, In the lot of
Jezreel the dogs will eat the flesh of Jezebel;
9:37 耶洗别的尸首必在耶斯列那块田里，如同田地上的粪土，甚至人不能说这是耶洗别。
And the corpse of Jezebel will be like dung upon the surface of the field in the lot of Jezreel, so that they will not say, This is Jezebel.
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 10 章
10:1 亚哈有七十个儿子在撒玛利亚。耶户写信送到撒玛利亚，给耶斯列的首领，就是众长老，并给教养亚哈众子的人，说，
Now Ahab had seventy sons in Samaria, and Jehu wrote letters and sent them to Samaria to the rulers of Jezreel, the elders, and to the guardians of the children
of Ahab, saying,
10:2 你们那里既有你们主人的众子，又有战车、马匹、坚固城和兵器，这信到了你们那里，
Now then, when this letter comes to you, since your master's sons are with you, and there are with you chariots and horses, a fortified city and weapons,
10:3 你们就可以在你们主人的众子中，选择一个最好、最合宜的，使他坐他父亲的位，你们也可以为你们主人的家争战。
Look for the best and fittest of your master's sons, and set him on the throne of his father, and fight for your master's house.
10:4 他们却甚惧怕，说，二王在他面前尚且站立不住，我们怎能站得住呢？
But they feared very greatly and said, If the two kings could not stand before him, how then can we stand before him?
10:5 家宰、邑宰、长老、和教养众子的人，打发人去见耶户，说，我们是你的仆人；凡你对我们所说的，我们都必遵行。我们不立谁作王，你看怎样好就
怎样行。
And he who was over the household and he that was over the city and the elders and the guardians sent to Jehu, saying, We are your servants; all that you say
to us, we will do. We will not make anyone king. What is good in your sight, do.
10:6 耶户第二次给他们写信说，你们若归属我，听从我的话，明日这时候，要将你们主人众子的首级带到耶斯列来见我。那时王的儿子七十人都住在城中
那些抚养他们的大臣那里。
Then he wrote a letter to them a second time, saying, If you are mine and listen to my voice, take the heads of the sons of your master, and come to me at Jezreel
tomorrow at this time. Now the king's sons, seventy men, were with the great men of the city, who had brought them up.
10:7 信一到，他们就把王的儿子七十人杀了，将首级装在筐子里，送到在耶斯列的耶户那里。
And when the letter reached them, they took the king's sons and slaughtered them, seventy men; and they placed their heads in baskets and sent them to him in
Jezreel.
380
10:8 有使者来告诉耶户说，他们将王众子的首级送来了。耶户说，将首级在城门口堆作两堆，搁到早晨。
And the messenger came and told him, saying, They have brought the heads of the king's sons. And he said, Put them in two heaps at the entrance of the gate
until the morning.
10:9 次日早晨，耶户出来，站着对众民说，你们都是公义的。我背叛我主人，将他杀了；但这些人都是谁杀的呢？
And in the morning he went out and stood and said to all the people, You are righteous. I conspired against my master and have killed him; but who struck all
these?
10:10 由此可知，耶和华指着亚哈家所说的话，一句都没有落空，因为耶和华藉祂仆人以利亚所说的，祂都成就了。
Know therefore that nothing of the word of Jehovah, which Jehovah spoke concerning the house of Ahab, shall fall to the earth; for Jehovah has done that which
He spoke through His servant Elijah.
10:11 凡属亚哈家在耶斯列所剩下的人，和他所有的大臣、朋友、祭司，耶户尽都杀了，没有留下一个。
So Jehu killed all that remained of the house of Ahab in Jezreel and all his great men and his acquaintances and his priests, until he left him no one remaining.
10:12 耶户起身往撒玛利亚去。在路上牧人相聚之处，
Then he rose up and departed and came into Samaria. And while he was at the shepherds' meeting place on the way,
10:13 耶户遇见犹大王亚哈谢的弟兄，问他们说，你们是谁？他们说，我们是亚哈谢的弟兄，现在下去要问王的众子和太后的众子安。
Jehu came upon the brothers of Ahaziah the king of Judah; and he said, Who are you? And they said, We are the brothers of Ahaziah, and have come down to
greet the sons of the king and the sons of the queen mother.
10:14 耶户说，活捉他们。跟从的人就活捉了他们，将他们杀在牧人相聚之处的坑边，共四十二人，没有留下一个。
And he said, Take them alive. And they took them alive and slew them, forty- two men, at the pit of the meeting place; and he left not one of them remaining.
10:15 耶户从那里前行，恰遇利甲的儿子约拿达来迎接他，耶户问他安，对他说，你的心对我是不是正直，像我的心对你的心那样？约拿达说，是。耶户
说，若是这样，你向我伸手，他就伸手；耶户拉他上车到自己身边。
And when he departed from there, he came upon Jehonadab the son of Rechab coming to meet him; and he greeted him and said to him, Is your heart right, as
my heart is with your heart? And Jehonadab said, It is. And Jehu said, If it is, give me your hand. And Jehu gave him his hand and took him up to himself into the
chariot.
10:16 耶户说，你和我同去，看我为耶和华发的热心；于是请他一同乘车。
And he said, Come with me, and see my zeal for Jehovah. So they made him ride in his chariot.
10:17 到了撒玛利亚，耶户就把在撒玛利亚属亚哈剩下的人都杀了，直到灭尽，正如耶和华对以利亚所说的话。
And when he came to Samaria, he struck all who were left to Ahab in Samaria, until he had destroyed him, according to the word of Jehovah, which He spoke to
Elijah.
10:18 耶户招聚众民，对他们说，亚哈只是稍微事奉巴力，耶户却要大大事奉他。
And Jehu gathered all the people together and said to them, Ahab served Baal a little, but Jehu will serve him much.
10:19 现在把巴力的众申言者、一切事奉巴力的人、并巴力的众祭司，都召到我这里来，一个也不可缺席，因为我要给巴力献大祭；凡缺席的必不得活。
耶户这样用诡计而行，是要杀尽事奉巴力的人。
Now call to me all the prophets of Baal, all his servants, and all his priests; let none be missing. For I have a great sacrifice to do to Baal. Whoever is missing will
not live. But Jehu acted in subtlety, in order that he might destroy the worshippers of Baal.
10:20 耶户说，要为巴力召开严肃会。于是他们宣告召开大会。
And Jehu said, Sanctify a solemn assembly for Baal. And they proclaimed it.
10:21 耶户差人走遍全以色列；凡事奉巴力的人都来了，没有剩下一个不来的。他们进了巴力庙，巴力庙中从这边到那边，都满了人。
And Jehu sent word throughout all Israel, and all the worshippers of Baal came; and there was not one left who did not come. And they came to the house of
Baal, and the house of Baal was filled from one end to the other.
10:22 耶户吩咐掌管礼服的人说，拿出礼服来，给一切事奉巴力的人穿。他就拿出礼服来给了他们。
And he said to the one who was over the wardrobe, Bring out garments for all the worshippers of Baal. And they brought out the garments to them.
10:23 耶户和利甲的儿子约拿达进了巴力庙，对事奉巴力的人说，你们察看察看，在你们这里不可有耶和华的仆人，只可有事奉巴力的人。
And Jehu and Jehonadab the son of Rechab came to the house of Baal; and he said to the worshippers of Baal, Search and see that none of the servants of
Jehovah are here with you; only the worshippers of Baal should be here.
10:24 耶户和约拿达进去，献平安祭和燔祭。耶户先为自己安排八十人在外面，说，我将这些人交在你们手中，若有一人脱逃，谁放的必要偿命。
And they came to offer sacrifice and burnt offerings. Now Jehu had stationed for himself eighty men outside; and he had said, He who allows any of the men to
escape whom I bring into your hands will give up his life instead.
10:25 耶户献完了燔祭，就出来对护卫兵和众军长说，你们进去杀他们，不要让一人出来。护卫兵和军长就用刀杀他们，将尸首抛出去，并到巴力庙的内
堂去，
And when he finished offering the burnt offering, Jehu said to the guards and to the captains, Go in and slay them; let no one get out. And they struck them with
the edge of the sword. And the guards and the captains threw them out, and they went to the inner room of the house of Baal.
10:26 他们将巴力庙中的柱像都拿出来烧了；
And they brought out the pillars of the house of Baal and burned them.
10:27 又毁坏了巴力柱像，拆毁了巴力庙作为厕所，直到今日。
And they broke down the pillar of Baal, and broke down the house of Baal and made it a latrine, as it is to this day.
10:28 这样，耶户从以色列中消灭了巴力。
Thus Jehu eradicated Baal from Israel.
10:29 只是耶户仍旧跟从尼八的儿子耶罗波安使以色列人犯罪的罪，就是拜伯特利和但的金牛犊，并不离开。
However as regards the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, by which he caused Israel to sin, Jehu did not turn away from them, that is, the golden calves which
were in Bethel and in Dan.
10:30 耶和华对耶户说，因你办好我眼中看为正的事，照我心中所愿的一切待亚哈家，你的子孙必坐以色列的国位，直到第四代。
And Jehovah said to Jehu, Because you have done well in executing what is right in My eyes and have dealt with the house of Ahab according to all that was in
My heart, your sons to the fourth generation shall sit on the throne of Israel.
10:31 只是耶户不全心谨慎遵行耶和华以色列神的律法，不离开耶罗波安使以色列人犯罪的罪。
But Jehu was not careful to walk in the law of Jehovah the God of Israel with all his heart; he did not turn from the sins of Jeroboam, by which he caused Israel to
sin.
381
10:32 在那些日子，耶和华开始割削以色列国；哈薛在以色列的四境击败他们，
In those days Jehovah began to cut away portions of land in Israel, and Hazael struck them in all the borders of Israel
10:33 乃是从约但河东起，攻击基列全地，就是迦得人、流便人、玛拿西人之地，从靠近亚嫩谷边的亚罗珥起，包括基列和巴珊。
From the Jordan eastward, all the land of Gilead, the Gadites, the Reubenites, and the Manassites, from Aroer, which is by the valley of Arnon, both Gilead and
Bashan.
10:34 耶户其余的事，凡他所行的，和他的勇力，岂不都写在以色列诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Jehu and all that he did and all his might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
10:35 耶户与他列祖同睡，人将他葬在撒玛利亚；他儿子约哈斯接续他作王。
And Jehu slept with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria. And Jehoahaz his son reigned in his place.
10:36 耶户在撒玛利亚作以色列王二十八年。
Now the time which Jehu reigned over Israel in Samaria was twenty-eight years.
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 11 章
11:1 亚哈谢的母亲亚他利雅见她儿子死了，就起来剿灭王室所有的后裔。
Now when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she rose up and destroyed all the royal seed.
11:2 但约兰王的女儿，亚哈谢的妹妹约示巴，将亚哈谢的儿子约阿施从那些将要被杀的王子中偷出来，把他和他的乳母都藏在卧房里。她们把他藏起来，
躲避亚他利雅，他就没有被杀。
But Jehosheba, the daughter of King Joram and sister of Ahaziah, took Joash the son of Ahaziah and stole him away from among the sons of the king who were
to be killed; she put him and his nurse into the bedchamber. So they hid him from Athaliah, and he was not killed.
11:3 约阿施和他的乳母藏在耶和华的殿里六年；亚他利雅作了那地的王。
And he was with her, hidden in the house of Jehovah, for six years while Athaliah reigned over the land.
11:4 第七年，耶何耶大打发人把迦利人和护卫兵的众百夫长带来，领他们进了耶和华的殿，到他那里。他与他们立约，使他们在耶和华殿里起誓，又将王
的儿子指给他们看，
Then in the seventh year Jehoiada sent word and gathered the captains of the hundreds over the Carites and over the guards and brought them to him at the
house of Jehovah. And he made a covenant with them and put them under an oath in the house of Jehovah, then showed them the king's son.
11:5 吩咐他们说，你们当这样行：凡安息日进班的，三分之一要看守王宫，
And he commanded them, saying, This is the thing that you shall do: A third of you who come on duty on the Sabbath shall keep watch over the king's house;
11:6 三分之一要在苏珥门，三分之一要在护卫兵院的后门。你们要看守王宫，拦阻闲人。
And another third shall keep watch in the gate of Sur; and another third shall keep watch at the gate behind the guards. You shall keep watch over the house for
a defense.
11:7 你们所有在安息日出班的，三分之二要看守耶和华的殿，护卫王；
And the two divisions of you, all who go off duty on the Sabbath, shall keep watch over the house of Jehovah for the king.
11:8 各人手拿兵器，四面围护王。凡擅入你们班次的，必被处死；王出入的时候，你们当跟随他。
And you shall surround the king, each man with his weapons in his hand; and whoever enters the ranks shall be put to death; and you shall be with the king in
his goings and comings.
11:9 众百夫长就照着祭司耶何耶大一切所吩咐的去行，各带所管安息日进班出班的人来见祭司耶何耶大。
And the captains of the hundreds did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded them. And each took his men, those who came on duty on the
Sabbath with those who went off duty on the Sabbath; and they came to Jehoiada the priest.
11:10 祭司将耶和华殿里所藏大卫王的枪和盾牌交给百夫长。
And the priest gave the spears and shields that had belonged to King David, which were in the house of Jehovah, to the captains of the hundreds.
11:11 护卫兵手中各拿兵器，在坛和殿那里，从殿右直到殿左，站在王子的四围。
And the guards stood, each man with his weapons in his hand, from the right flank of the house to the left flank of the house, by the altar and by the house, to
guard the king all around.
11:12 祭司领王子出来，给他戴上冠冕，将律法书交给他，立他作王，用膏膏他；众人拍掌说，愿王万岁！
And he brought the king's son out and gave him the crown and the testimony. And they made him king and anointed him, and they clapped their hands and
said, Long live the king!
11:13 亚他利雅听见护卫兵和民的声音，就进耶和华的殿，到民那里，
Now when Athaliah heard the noise of the guard and of the people, she went to the people at the house of Jehovah.
11:14 看见王照例站在柱旁，百夫长和吹号的人在王左右，那地的众民欢乐吹号；亚他利雅就撕裂衣服，喊叫说，反了！反了！
And she looked, and there was the king, standing by the pillar, according to the custom, with captains and their trumpets near the king. And all the people of the
land rejoiced and blew the trumpets. And Athaliah tore her clothes and cried out, Treason! Treason!
11:15 祭司耶何耶大吩咐管辖军兵的百夫长说，将她赶出班外，凡跟随她的必用刀杀死；因为祭司说，她不可在耶和华的殿里被杀。
And Jehoiada the priest commanded the captains of the hundreds who had been set over the army and said to them, Bring her out between the ranks, and
anyone who follows her kill with a sword; for the priest said, She shall not be killed in the house of Jehovah.
11:16 众兵就闪开让她去；她经由马的入口处进王宫时，便在那里被杀。
And they made way for her, and she went to the house of the king through the horses' entrance and was killed there.
11:17 耶何耶大使王和民与耶和华立约，使他们作耶和华的民；又在王与民之间立约。
And Jehoiada made a covenant between Jehovah and the king and the people that they would be Jehovah's people, and also between the king and the people.
11:18 于是那地的众民都到巴力庙，拆毁了庙，将巴力的坛和像完全打碎，又在坛前将巴力的祭司玛坦杀了。祭司耶何耶大派官看守耶和华的殿，
And all the people of the land went to the house of Baal and broke it down: The altars to him and his images they shattered to pieces, and they slew Mattan the
priest of Baal before the altars. And the priest appointed officers over the house of Jehovah.
11:19 又率领百夫长和迦利人与护卫兵，以及那地的众民，请王从耶和华的殿下来，经护卫兵的门进入王宫，他就坐上王位。
And Jehoiada gathered the captains of the hundreds and the Carites and the guards and all the people of the land. And they brought the king down from the
house of Jehovah and came by way of the guard gate to the house of the king, and he sat upon the throne of the kings.
382
11:20 那地的众民都欢乐，合城都安静；众人已将亚他利雅在王宫那里用刀杀了。
And all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was quiet; for they had slain Athaliah with the sword at the house of the king.
11:21 约阿施登基的时候年七岁。
Jehoash was seven years old when he began to reign.
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 12 章
12:1 耶户第七年，约阿施登基，在耶路撒冷作王四十年。他母亲名叫西比亚，是别是巴人。
In the seventh year of Jehu, Jehoash began to reign; and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Zibiah of Beersheba.
12:2 约阿施在祭司耶何耶大教导他的一切日子，就行耶和华眼中看为正的事；
And Jehoash did what was right in the sight of Jehovah all the days in which Jehoiada the priest instructed him.
12:3 只是邱坛还没有废去，百姓仍在邱坛献祭烧香。
However the high places were not removed; the people still sacrificed and burned incense in the high places.
12:4 约阿施对众祭司说，凡奉到耶和华殿分别为圣之物中的银子－
And Jehoash said to the priests, All the money of the sanctified things which goes into the house of Jehovah-the money of everyone who passes through the
numbering, the money of each person's assessment, and all the money that comes up in the heart of anyone to bring into the house of Jehovah -
12:5 每一个经过数点之人当纳的银子，各人被估的身价，或各人心中起意要奉到耶和华殿的银子－祭司每人当从所认识的人收了来，修理殿的一切破损之
处。
Let the priests take, each man from his acquaintance; and they shall repair what is broken in the house, wherever anything is found broken.
12:6 无奈到了约阿施王二十三年，祭司仍未修理殿的破损之处。
But as of the twenty-third year of King Jehoash, the priests had not repaired what was broken in the house.
12:7 所以约阿施王召了大祭司耶何耶大和众祭司来，对他们说，你们怎么不修理殿的破损之处呢？
So King Jehoash summoned Jehoiada the priest and the priests and said to them, Why have you not been repairing what is broken in the house? Now therefore
take no more money from your acquaintances, but deliver it for what is broken in the house.
12:8 从今以后，你们不要从所认识的人再收银子，要将所收的交出来，用以修理殿的破损之处。众祭司答应不再从百姓收银子，也不修理殿的破损之处。
And the priests agreed that they would neither take money from the people nor repair what was broken in the house.
12:9 祭司耶何耶大取了一个柜子，在柜盖上钻了一个洞孔，放于坛旁，在进耶和华殿的右边；守门的祭司将奉到耶和华殿的一切银子投在柜里。
Then Jehoiada the priest took a chest and bored a hole in its lid, and he put it beside the altar, on the right side as one comes into the house of Jehovah. And the
priests who guarded the threshold put all the money that came into the house of Jehovah into it.
12:10 他们见柜里的银子多了，便叫王的书记和大祭司上来，将耶和华殿里所得的银子包起来，加以数算。
And whenever they saw that there was a large amount of money in the chest, the king's scribe and the high priest would go up and bind the money that came
into the house of Jehovah in bags and count it.
12:11 把所称的银子交给办事的，就是耶和华殿里督工的人；督工的人把银子支付给修理耶和华殿的木匠和建筑工，
And they would give the money that was weighed out into the hands of those who did the work, who had the oversight of the house of Jehovah; and these would
pay it out to the carpenters and the builders who worked on the house of Jehovah,
12:12 并支付给泥水匠和石匠，又用以买木料和凿成的石头，修理耶和华殿的破损之处，并支付修理殿的各样开支。
And to the masons and to the stone hewers and for the purchase of timber and hewn stone, to repair what was broken in the house of Jehovah, and for any
other outlay to repair the house.
12:13 但那奉到耶和华殿的银子，没有用以作耶和华殿里的银杯、灯剪、碗、号、或任何金银器皿；
But there were no cups of silver, snuffers, basins, trumpets, or any vessels of gold or any vessels of silver prepared for the house of Jehovah out of the money that
was brought into the house of Jehovah;
12:14 乃将那银子交给办事的人，用以修理耶和华的殿。
For they gave it all to those who did the work, who repaired the house of Jehovah with it.
12:15 他们将银子交给那些人，好付给作工的人，并不与那些人算账，因为他们办事诚实可信。
And they did not ask for an accounting from the men into whose hands they had given the money to use for doing the work, for these worked faithfully.
12:16 惟有赎愆祭的银子和赎罪祭的银子，没有奉到耶和华的殿，都归祭司。
The money from the trespass offerings and the money from the sin offerings was not brought into the house of Jehovah; it was the priests'.
12:17 那时，亚兰王哈薛上来攻打迦特，攻取了；哈薛就定意上来攻打耶路撒冷。
At that time Hazael the king of Syria went up and fought against Gath and took it. And Hazael set his face to go up toward Jerusalem.
12:18 犹大王约阿施将一切分别为圣的物，就是他列祖犹大王约沙法、约兰、亚哈谢所分别为圣的物，和自己所分别为圣的物，并耶和华殿与王宫府库里
所有的金子，都送给亚兰王哈薛；哈薛就退去不攻打耶路撒冷了。
And Jehoash the king of Judah took all the sanctified things which Jehoshaphat and Jehoram and Ahaziah, his fathers the kings of Judah, had sanctified and his
own sanctified things and all the gold that was found in the treasuries of the house of Jehovah and the house of the king; and he sent it to Hazael the king of
Syria. And he went up from Jerusalem.
12:19 约阿施其余的事，凡他所行的，岂不都写在犹大诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Joash and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
12:20 约阿施的臣仆起来，同谋背叛，在下到悉拉路上的米罗宫里击杀他。
And his servants rose up and formed a conspiracy. And they struck Joash down in the house of Millo, on the way that leads down to Silla.
12:21 乃是他的臣仆示米押的儿子约撒甲和朔默的儿子约萨拔击杀他，他就死了。众人将他葬在大卫城，与他的列祖葬在一起。他儿子亚玛谢接续他作王。
And it was Jozacar the son of Shimeath and Jehozabad the son of Shomer, his servants, who struck him down; and he died. And they buried him with his fathers
in the city of David. And Amaziah his son reigned in his place.
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 13 章
383
13:1 犹大王亚哈谢的儿子约阿施二十三年，耶户的儿子约哈斯在撒玛利亚登基，作以色列王十七年。
In the twenty-third year of Jehoash the son of Ahaziah, the king of Judah, Jehoahaz the son of Jehu began to reign over Israel in Samaria; he reigned seventeen
years.
13:2 约哈斯行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，随从尼八的儿子耶罗波安使以色列人犯罪的罪，总不离开。
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah and followed after the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat by which he caused Israel to sin; he did not turn away
from them.
13:3 于是耶和华的怒气向以色列人发作，将他们屡次交在亚兰王哈薛和他儿子便哈达的手里。
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel; and He gave them continually into the hand of Hazael the king of Syria and into the hand of Ben-hadad the
son of Hazael.
13:4 (约哈斯恳求耶和华，耶和华就应允他，因为见以色列人所受亚兰王的欺压。
(And Jehoahaz entreated Jehovah; and Jehovah listened to him, for He saw the oppression of Israel, for the king of Syria oppressed them.
13:5 耶和华赐给以色列人一位拯救者，他们就从亚兰人手下出来；于是以色列人仍旧安居在自己的帐棚里。
And Jehovah gave Israel a deliverer, and they went out from under the hand of Syria; and the children of Israel dwelt in their tents as they had before.
13:6 然而他们不离开耶罗波安家的罪，就是他使以色列人犯罪的罪，仍然行在其中；并且仍然有木像立在撒玛利亚。)
However they did not depart from the sins of the house of Jeroboam, by which he caused Israel to sin, but walked in them. And also the Asherah remained
standing in Samaria.)
13:7 亚兰王杀灭约哈斯的民，使他们如同禾场上的尘沙被践踏，只给约哈斯留下五十马兵、十辆战车、和一万步兵。
For he left to Jehoahaz of the people not more than fifty horsemen and ten chariots and ten thousand foot soldiers, for the king of Syria destroyed them and made
them like the dust at threshing.
13:8 约哈斯其余的事，凡他所行的和他的勇力，岂不都写在以色列诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Jehoahaz and all that he did and his might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
13:9 约哈斯与他列祖同睡，人将他葬在撒玛利亚。他儿子约阿施接续他作王。
And Jehoahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria. And Joash his son reigned in his place.
13:10 犹大王约阿施三十七年，约哈斯的儿子约阿施在撒玛利亚登基，作以色列王十六年。
In the thirty-seventh year of Joash the king of Judah, Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz began to reign over Israel in Samaria; he reigned sixteen years.
13:11 他行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，不离开尼八的儿子耶罗波安使以色列人犯罪的一切罪，仍然行在其中。
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah; he did not turn away from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, by which he caused Israel to sin; he
walked in them.
13:12 约阿施其余的事，凡他所行的，和他与犹大王亚玛谢争战的勇力，岂不都写在以色列诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Joash and all that he did and his might with which he fought with Amaziah the king of Judah, are they not written in the book of the
chronicles of the kings of Israel?
13:13 约阿施与他列祖同睡，耶罗波安坐了他的位。约阿施与以色列诸王一同葬在撒玛利亚。
And Joash slept with his fathers; and Jeroboam sat upon his throne. And Joash was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel.
13:14 以利沙得了必死的病，以色列王约阿施下来看他，在他面前哭泣，说，我父阿！我父阿！以色列的战车马兵阿！
Now when Elisha was ill with his illness by which he eventually died, Joash the king of Israel went down to him and wept over him and said, My father! My father!
The chariots of Israel and its horsemen!
13:15 以利沙对他说，你取弓箭来。王就取了弓箭到他那里；
And Elisha said to him, Take a bow and arrows; and he took a bow and arrows to him.
13:16 以利沙对以色列王说，你用手拿弓。王就用手拿弓。以利沙按手在王的手上，
And he said to the king of Israel, Grasp the bow; and he grasped the bow. And Elisha put his hands over the hands of the king,
13:17 说，你开朝东的窗户；他就开了。以利沙说，射箭罢；他就射箭。以利沙说，这是耶和华的得胜箭，就是战胜亚兰人的箭；因为你必在亚弗击败亚
兰人，直到灭尽他们。
And he said, Open the window toward the east; and he opened it. And Elisha said, Shoot; and he shot. And he said, Jehovah's arrow of victory, an arrow of
victory against Syria; for you will strike Syria in Aphek until you have consumed it.
13:18 以利沙又说，取几枝箭来；他就取了来。以利沙对以色列王说，向地射罢；他射了三次，便止住了。
And he said, Take the arrows; and he took them. And he said to the king of Israel, Strike the ground; and he struck the ground three times then stopped.
13:19 神人向他发怒，说，你应当射五六次，就能击败亚兰人，直到灭尽；现在你只能击败亚兰人三次。
And the man of God became angry with him and said, You should have struck it five or six times; then you would have struck Syria until you had consumed them.
But now you shall strike Syria only three times.
13:20 以利沙死了，人将他葬埋。到了新年，有摩押人结队犯境。
And Elisha died, and they buried him. Now the bands of the Moabites would invade the land at the coming in of the new year.
13:21 有人正葬死人，忽然看见一队来袭的人，就把死人抛在以利沙的坟墓里；一碰着以利沙的骸骨，那死人就复活，站起来了。
And it so happened that as the people were burying a man, they saw a band; and they cast the man into the grave of Elisha. And as soon as the man touched
the bones of Elisha, he came to life and stood up on his feet.
13:22 约哈斯在世的一切日子，亚兰王哈薛屡次欺压以色列人。
And Hazael the king of Syria oppressed Israel all the days of Jehoahaz.
13:23 耶和华却因与亚伯拉罕、以撒、雅各所立的约，仍施恩给以色列人，怜恤他们，看顾他们，不肯灭尽他们，不赶逐他们离开自己面前，直到如今。
But Jehovah was gracious to them and had compassion on them and turned to them because of His covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and He would
not destroy them; and He has not cast them from His presence until now.
13:24 亚兰王哈薛死了，他儿子便哈达接续他作王。
And Hazael the king of Syria died, and Ben-hadad his son reigned in his place.
13:25 从前哈薛和约阿施的父亲约哈斯争战时所攻取的城邑，现在约哈斯的儿子约阿施，都从哈薛的儿子便哈达手中夺回；约阿施三次打败便哈达，收回
了以色列的城邑。
And Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz retook the cities out of the hand of Ben- hadad the son of Hazael that he had taken in war out of the hand of Jehoahaz his
father; Joash struck him three times and recovered the cities of Israel.
384
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 14 章
14:1 以色列王约哈斯的儿子约阿施第二年，犹大王约阿施的儿子亚玛谢登基。
In the second year of Joash the son of Joahaz, the king of Israel, Amaziah the son of Joash, the king of Judah, began to reign.
14:2 他登基的时候年二十五岁，在耶路撒冷作王二十九年；他母亲名叫约耶但，是耶路撒冷人。
He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned in Jerusalem for twenty-nine years; and his mother's name was Jehoaddin of Jerusalem.
14:3 亚玛谢行耶和华眼中看为正的事，只是不如他祖大卫；他照他父亲约阿施一切所行的而行。
And he did what was right in the sight of Jehovah, yet not like David his father; he did according to all that Joash his father had done.
14:4 只是邱坛还没有废去，百姓仍在邱坛献祭烧香。
However the high places were not removed; the people still sacrificed and burned incense in the high places.
14:5 国在他手中一坚定，他就把杀他父王的臣仆杀了；
And when the kingdom was established in his hand, he struck down his servants who had struck down his father the king.
14:6 但他没有把杀王之人的儿子处死，是照摩西律法书上所写，耶和华所吩咐的，说，父亲不可因儿子的缘故被处死，
But the children of the murderers he did not put to death, as it is written in the book of the law of Moses, in which Jehovah commanded, saying, Fathers shall not
be put to death because of their children, nor shall children be put to death because of their fathers; but every man shall be put to death for his own sin.
14:7 儿子也不可因父亲的缘故被处死；各人要因自己的罪被处死。亚玛谢在盐谷杀了以东人一万，又战取了西拉，改名叫约帖，直到今日。
He struck ten thousand of Edom in the Valley of Salt; and he captured Sela in battle and called the name of it Joktheel, as it is to this day.
14:8 那时，亚玛谢差遣使者去见耶户的孙子，约哈斯的儿子以色列王约阿施，说，你来，我们在战场上彼此见面。
Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz the son of Jehu, the king of Israel, saying, Come, let us confront each other.
14:9 以色列王约阿施差遣人去见犹大王亚玛谢，说，利巴嫩的蒺藜差遣人去见利巴嫩的香柏树，说，将你的女儿给我儿子为妻；然而利巴嫩有一只野兽经
过，把蒺藜践踏了。
And Jehoash the king of Israel sent word to Amaziah the king of Judah, saying, The thornbush that was in Lebanon sent word to the cedar that was in Lebanon,
saying, Give your daughter to my son as his wife; but a wild beast that was in Lebanon passed by and trampled the thornbush.
14:10 你打败了以东人，就心里高傲。你自以为荣，在家里安居就罢了；为何要惹祸，使自己和犹大国一同败亡呢？
You have surely struck Edom, and your heart has lifted you up. Glorify yourself, but remain in your home. Why should you stir up trouble so that you and Judah
with you fall?
14:11 亚玛谢却不肯听从；于是以色列王约阿施上来，在属犹大的伯示麦，与犹大王亚玛谢在战场上彼此见面。
But Amaziah would not listen; so Jehoash the king of Israel went up, and he and Amaziah the king of Judah confronted each other in Beth-shemesh, which
belongs to Judah.
14:12 犹大人败在以色列人面前，各人逃往自己的帐棚去了。
And Judah was defeated before Israel, and they fled, each man to his tent.
14:13 以色列王约阿施在伯示麦擒住亚哈谢的孙子，约阿施的儿子犹大王亚玛谢，就来到耶路撒冷，拆毁耶路撒冷的城墙，从以法莲门直到角门，共四百
肘。
And Jehoash the king of Israel captured Amaziah the king of Judah the son of Jehoash the son of Ahaziah in Beth- shemesh; and he came to Jerusalem and tore
down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim to the Corner Gate, four hundred cubits.
14:14 他又将耶和华殿里与王宫府库里所有的金银和器皿都拿了去，并带人去为质，就回撒玛利亚去了。
And he took all the gold and silver and all the vessels that were found in the house of Jehovah and in the treasuries of the king's house as well as hostages, and
returned to Samaria.
14:15 约阿施其余所行的事，和他的勇力，并他与犹大王亚玛谢争战的事，岂不都写在以色列诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Jehoash which he did and his might and how he fought with Amaziah the king of Judah, are they not written in the book of the
chronicles of the kings of Israel?
14:16 约阿施与他列祖同睡，葬在撒玛利亚，与以色列诸王葬在一起。他儿子耶罗波安接续他作王。
And Jehoash slept with his fathers and was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel. And Jeroboam his son reigned in his place.
14:17 以色列王约哈斯的儿子约阿施死后，犹大王约阿施的儿子亚玛谢又活了十五年。
And Amaziah the son of Joash, the king of Judah, lived for fifteen years after the death of Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz, the king of Israel.
14:18 亚玛谢其余的事，岂不都写在犹大诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Amaziah, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
14:19 耶路撒冷有人结党背叛亚玛谢，他就逃到拉吉；叛党却打发人追到拉吉，在那里将他杀了。
And they formed a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem, and he fled to Lachish; and they sent men after him to Lachish, and they killed him there.
14:20 人就用马将他的尸首驮回去，葬在耶路撒冷，在大卫城里，与他的列祖在一起。
And they brought him on horses, and he was buried in Jerusalem with his fathers in the city of David.
14:21 犹大众民选取亚撒利雅，立他接续他父亲亚玛谢作王，那时他年十六岁。
And all the people of Judah took Azariah, who was sixteen years old, and made him king in place of his father Amaziah.
14:22 亚玛谢王与他列祖同睡之后，亚撒利雅修筑以拉他，使其仍归犹大。
It was he who built Elath and restored it to Judah after Amaziah the king slept with his fathers.
14:23 犹大王约阿施的儿子亚玛谢十五年，以色列王约阿施的儿子耶罗波安在撒玛利亚登基，作王四十一年。
In the fifteenth year of Amaziah the son of Joash, the king of Judah, Jeroboam the son of Joash, the king of Israel, began to reign in Samaria; he reigned forty-
one years.
14:24 他行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，不离开尼八的儿子耶罗波安使以色列人犯罪的一切罪。
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah; he did not turn away from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, by which he caused Israel to sin.
14:25 他收回以色列边界之地，从哈马口直到亚拉巴海，正如耶和华以色列的神藉祂的仆人，迦特希弗人亚米太的儿子申言者约拿所说的。
He restored the border of Israel from the entrance of Hamath to the sea of the Arabah, according to the word of Jehovah the God of Israel, which He spoke
through His servant Jonah the son of Amittai, the prophet who was of Gath-hepher.
14:26 因为耶和华看见以色列人遭受患难，甚是艰苦，无论困住的、自由的，都没有了，也无人帮助以色列人。
For Jehovah saw the affliction of Israel, that it was very bitter, for there was neither bond nor free left, nor was there anyone to help Israel.
14:27 耶和华并没有说要将以色列的名从天下涂抹，乃藉约阿施的儿子耶罗波安拯救他们。
385
And Jehovah did not say that He would blot out the name of Israel from under heaven but saved them by the hand of Jeroboam the son of Joash.
14:28 耶罗波安其余的事，凡他所行的和他的勇力，他怎样争战，怎样收回大马色和先前属犹大的哈马归以色列，岂不都写在以色列诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Jeroboam and all that he did and his might, how he warred and how he restored for Israel Damascus and Hamath, which had
belonged to Judah, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
14:29 耶罗波安与他列祖以色列诸王同睡。他儿子撒迦利雅接续他作王。
And Jeroboam slept with his fathers, with the kings of Israel. And Zechariah his son reigned in his place.
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 15 章
15:1 以色列王耶罗波安二十七年，犹大王亚玛谢的儿子亚撒利雅登基。
In the twenty-seventh year of Jeroboam the king of Israel, Azariah the son of Amaziah, the king of Judah, began to reign.
15:2 他登基的时候年十六岁，在耶路撒冷作王五十二年；他母亲名叫耶可利雅，是耶路撒冷人。
He was sixteen years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem; and his mother's name was Jecoliah of Jerusalem.
15:3 亚撒利雅行耶和华眼中看为正的事，是照他父亲亚玛谢一切所行的；
And he did what was right in the sight of Jehovah, according to all that his father Amaziah had done.
15:4 只是邱坛还没有废去，百姓仍在邱坛献祭烧香。
However the high places were not removed; the people still sacrificed and burned incense in the high places.
15:5 耶和华击打王，使他患痲疯，直到死日；他就住在别的宫里。王的儿子约坦管理家事，治理那地的民。
And Jehovah struck the king, so that he was a leper until the day of his death; and he dwelt in a separate house. And Jotham, the king's son, was over the
household, judging the people of the land.
15:6 亚撒利雅其余的事，凡他所行的，岂不都写在犹大诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Azariah and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
15:7 亚撒利雅与他列祖同睡，人将他葬在大卫城，与他列祖在一起。他儿子约坦接续他作王。
And Azariah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the city of David. And Jotham his son reigned in his place.
15:8 犹大王亚撒利雅三十八年，耶罗波安的儿子撒迦利雅在撒玛利亚作以色列王六个月。
In the thirty-eighth year of Azariah the king of Judah, Zechariah the son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in Samaria; he reigned six months.
15:9 他行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，正如他列祖所行的，不离开尼八的儿子耶罗波安使以色列人犯罪的罪。
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah, as his fathers had done; he did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, by which he caused
Israel to sin.
15:10 雅比的儿子沙龙与人同谋背叛他，在百姓面前击杀他，篡了他的位。
And Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against him and struck him down before the people. So he killed him and reigned in his place.
15:11 撒迦利雅其余的事，都写在以色列诸王记上。
And the rest of the acts of Zechariah are there written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
15:12 这就是从前耶和华对耶户的话，说，你的子孙必坐以色列的国位，直到第四代；这话果然应验了。
This was the word of Jehovah which He spoke to Jehu, saying, Your sons to the fourth generation shall sit on the throne of Israel; and it was so.
15:13 犹大王乌西雅三十九年，雅比的儿子沙龙登基，在撒玛利亚作王一个月。
Shallum the son of Jabesh began to reign in the thirty-ninth year of Uzziah the king of Judah, and he reigned one month in Samaria.
15:14 迦底的儿子米拿现从得撒上去，到了撒玛利亚，在那里击杀雅比的儿子沙龙，篡了他的位。
And Menahem the son of Gadi went up from Tirzah and came to Samaria. And he struck down Shallum the son of Jabesh in Samaria and killed him. And he
reigned in his place.
15:15 沙龙其余的事，和他与人同谋背叛的情形，都写在以色列诸王记上。
And the rest of the acts of Shallum and the conspiracy which he formed are there written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
15:16 那时米拿现从得撒出发，攻打提斐萨和其四境，击杀城中一切的人；因为人不给他开城，他就把城击破，剖开其中所有的孕妇。
Then Menahem struck Tiphsah and all who were in it and its borders from Tirzah; because they did not open to him, he struck it; all its pregnant women he
ripped open.
15:17 犹大王亚撒利雅三十九年，迦底的儿子米拿现登基，在撒玛利亚作以色列王十年。
In the thirty-ninth year of Azariah the king of Judah, Menahem the son of Gadi began to reign over Israel; he reigned ten years in Samaria.
15:18 他行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，终身不离开尼八的儿子耶罗波安使以色列人犯罪的罪。
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah; he did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, by which he caused Israel to sin, throughout
all his days.
15:19 亚述王普勒来攻击以色列地，米拿现给他一千他连得银子，请普勒帮助他，使国在他手中得坚固。
Pul the king of Assyria came against the land, and Menahem gave Pul a thousand talents of silver so that he would support his efforts to keep the kingdom in his
hand.
15:20 米拿现向以色列一切大富户索要银子，使他们各出五十舍客勒，好给亚述王。于是亚述王回去，不在那地停留。
And Menahem exacted the money from Israel, from all the great men of wealth, each one man giving fifty shekels of silver, so that he could give it to the king of
Assyria. And the king of Assyria returned and did not stay there in the land.
15:21 米拿现其余的事，凡他所行的，岂不都写在以色列诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Menahem and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
15:22 米拿现与他列祖同睡。他儿子比加辖接续他作王。
And Menahem slept with his fathers. And Pekahiah his son reigned in his place.
15:23 犹大王亚撒利雅五十年，米拿现的儿子比加辖在撒玛利亚登基，作以色列王二年。
In the fiftieth year of Azariah the king of Judah, Pekahiah the son of Menahem began to reign over Israel in Samaria; he reigned two years.
15:24 他行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，不离开尼八的儿子耶罗波安使以色列人犯罪的罪。
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah; he did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, by which he caused Israel to sin.
386
15:25 比加辖的军长，利玛利的儿子比加与人同谋背叛他，在撒玛利亚王宫里的卫所，与亚珥歌伯和亚利耶一同杀了他；有五十个基列人帮助比加。比加
杀了他，篡了他的位。
And Pekah the son of Remaliah, his captain, conspired against him. And he struck him down, along with Argob and Arieh, in Samaria in the palace of the king's
house; and with him were fifty men from among the Gileadites. So he killed him and reigned in his place.
15:26 比加辖其余的事，凡他所行的，都写在以色列诸王记上。
And the rest of the acts of Pekahiah and all that he did are there written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
15:27 犹大王亚撒利雅五十二年，利玛利的儿子比加在撒玛利亚登基，作以色列王二十年。
In the fifty-second year of Azariah the king of Judah, Pekah the son of Remaliah began to reign over Israel in Samaria; he reigned twenty years.
15:28 他行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，不离开尼八的儿子耶罗波安使以色列人犯罪的罪。
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah; he did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, by which he caused Israel to sin.
15:29 以色列王比加年间，亚述王提革拉毗列色来夺了以云、亚伯伯玛迦、亚挪、基低斯、夏琐、基列和加利利，加利利就是拿弗他利全地，将这些地方
的居民都掳到亚述去了。
In the days of Pekah the king of Israel Tiglath-pileser the king of Assyria came and took Ijon and Abel-beth-maacah and Janoah and Kedesh and Hazor and
Gilead and Galilee, all the land of Naphtali; and he carried them away captive to Assyria.
15:30 乌西雅的儿子约坦二十年，以拉的儿子何细亚与人同谋背叛利玛利的儿子比加，击杀他，篡了他的位。
And Hoshea the son of Elah formed a conspiracy against Pekah the son of Remaliah, and he struck him down and killed him and reigned in his place in the
twentieth year of Jotham the son of Uzziah.
15:31 比加其余的事，凡他所行的，都写在以色列诸王记上。
And the rest of the acts of Pekah and all that he did are there written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
15:32 以色列王利玛利的儿子比加第二年，犹大王乌西雅的儿子约坦登基。
In the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliah, the king of Israel, Jotham the son of Uzziah, the king of Judah, began to reign.
15:33 他登基的时候年二十五岁，在耶路撒冷作王十六年；他母亲名叫耶路沙，是撒督的女儿。
He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem; and his mother's name was Jerusha, the daughter of Zadok.
15:34 约坦行耶和华眼中看为正的事，照他父亲乌西雅一切所行的而行；
And he did what was right in the sight of Jehovah; he did according to all that his father Uzziah had done.
15:35 只是邱坛还没有废去，百姓仍在邱坛献祭烧香。约坦建立耶和华殿的上门。
However the high places were not removed; the people still sacrificed and burned incense in the high places. He built the upper gate of the house of Jehovah.
15:36 约坦其余的事，凡他所行的，岂不都写在犹大诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Jotham that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
15:37 在那些日子，耶和华才打发亚兰王利汛和利玛利的儿子比加去攻击犹大。
In those days Jehovah began to send Rezin the king of Syria and Pekah the son of Remaliah against Judah.
15:38 约坦与他列祖同睡，与他列祖一同葬在他祖大卫的城。他儿子亚哈斯接续他作王。
And Jotham slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father. And Ahaz his son reigned in his place.
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 16 章
16:1 利玛利的儿子比加十七年，犹大王约坦的儿子亚哈斯登基。
In the seventeenth year of Pekah the son of Remaliah, Ahaz the son of Jotham, the king of Judah, began to reign.
16:2 他登基的时候年二十岁，在耶路撒冷作王十六年。他不像他祖大卫行耶和华他神眼中看为正的事，
Ahaz was twenty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And he did not do what was right in the sight of Jehovah his God,
as David his father had done,
16:3 却行以色列诸王所行的道路，甚至照着耶和华从以色列人面前赶出的外邦人所行可憎的事，使他的儿子经火。
But walked in the way of the kings of Israel; and he even caused his son to pass through the fire, according to the abominations of the nations that Jehovah had
dispossessed before the children of Israel.
16:4 他又在邱坛上、山冈上、各青翠树下献祭烧香。
And he sacrificed and burned incense in the high places and on the hills and under every flourishing tree.
16:5 那时，亚兰王利汛和以色列王利玛利的儿子比加上来攻打耶路撒冷，围困亚哈斯，却不能胜他。
Then Rezin the king of Syria and Pekah the son of Remaliah, the king of Israel, came up to Jerusalem to battle. And they besieged Ahaz, but they were not able to
fight with him.
16:6 当时亚兰王利汛收回以拉他归与亚兰，将犹大人从以拉他赶出去；亚兰人来到以拉他，住在那里，直到今日。
At that time Rezin the king of Syria restored Elath to Syria and drove the Jews from Elath; and the Syrians came to Elath and have dwelt there to this day.
16:7 亚哈斯差遣使者去见亚述王提革拉毗列色，说，我是你的仆人，你的儿子；现在亚兰王和以色列王起来攻击我，求你上来救我脱离他们的手。
And Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglath-pileser the king of Assyria, saying, I am your servant and your son; come up, and save me out of the hand of the king of
Syria and out of the hand of the king of Israel, who have risen up against me.
16:8 亚哈斯将耶和华殿里和王宫府库里所有的金银，都送给亚述王为礼物。
And Ahaz took the silver and the gold that was found in the house of Jehovah and in the treasuries of the king's house, and sent it as a present to the king of
Assyria.
16:9 亚述王应允了他，就上去攻打大马色，将城攻取，把城中的居民掳去吉珥，并且杀了利汛。
And the king of Assyria listened to him. And the king of Assyria went up against Damascus, and he took it and carried the people of it away captive to Kir. And he
killed Rezin.
16:10 亚哈斯王到大马色去迎接亚述王提革拉毗列色，看见在大马色的坛，就照坛的一切作法，把坛的样式和模样，送到祭司乌利亚那里。
And King Ahaz went to meet Tiglath- pileser the king of Assyria at Damascus, and he saw the altar that was at Damascus. And King Ahaz sent to Urijah the
priest the form of the altar and the pattern of it, according to all its workmanship.
16:11 祭司乌利亚照着亚哈斯王从大马色送来的一切，筑了一座坛；在亚哈斯王从大马色回来之先，就那样筑好了。
387
And Urijah the priest built an altar according to all that King Ahaz had sent him from Damascus. Urijah the priest made it that way before King Ahaz came from
Damascus.
16:12 王从大马色回来看见坛，就近前来，在坛上献祭；
And when the king came from Damascus, the king saw the altar; and the king approached the altar and offered upon it.
16:13 烧燔祭、素祭，浇上奠祭，将平安祭牲的血洒在坛上。
And he burned his burnt offering and his meal offering, and poured out his drink offering, and sprinkled the blood of his peace offerings upon the altar.
16:14 他又将耶和华面前的铜坛从殿前，从耶和华殿和新坛的中间，搬去放在新坛的北边。
And the bronze altar which was before Jehovah, he brought forward from the front of the house, from between his altar and the house of Jehovah, and put it by
the side of his altar on the north.
16:15 亚哈斯王吩咐祭司乌利亚说，早晨的燔祭和晚上的素祭，王的燔祭和素祭，那地众民的燔祭、素祭和奠祭，都要烧在大坛上，燔祭牲和平安祭牲的
血，也都要洒在这坛上；只是铜坛要给我作求问之用。
And King Ahaz commanded Urijah the priest, saying, Upon the great altar burn the morning burnt offering and the evening meal offering, and the king's burnt
offering and his meal offering, and the burnt offering of all the people of the land and their meal offering and their drink offerings; and sprinkle upon it all the
blood of the burnt offering and all the blood of the sacrifice. And the bronze altar shall be for me to inquire by.
16:16 祭司乌利亚就照着亚哈斯王所吩咐的一切行了。
And Urijah the priest did according to all that King Ahaz had commanded.
16:17 亚哈斯王打掉盆座的镶板，把洗濯盆从座上挪下来；又将铜海从驮海的铜牛上搬下来，放在铺石地。
And King Ahaz cut off the panels of the bases and removed the laver from off them; and he took down the sea from off the bronze oxen that were under it and
put it upon a pavement of stone.
16:18 他又因亚述王的缘故，将殿内为安息日所盖的廊子，和王从外边进殿的入口，从耶和华的殿挪去。
And the covered way for use on the Sabbath, which they had built in the house, and the king's entry outside, he removed from the house of Jehovah because of
the king of Assyria.
16:19 亚哈斯其余所行的事，岂不都写在犹大诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Ahaz which he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
16:20 亚哈斯与他列祖同睡，与他列祖一同葬在大卫城。他儿子希西家接续他作王。
And Ahaz slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David; and Hezekiah his son reigned in his place.
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 17 章
17:1 犹大王亚哈斯十二年，以拉的儿子何细亚在撒玛利亚登基，作以色列王九年。
In the twelfth year of Ahaz the king of Judah, Hoshea the son of Elah began to reign in Samaria over Israel; he reigned for nine years.
17:2 他行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，只是不像在他以前的以色列诸王。
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah, but not like the kings of Israel that had been before him.
17:3 亚述王撒缦以色上来攻击何细亚，何细亚就向他称臣，给他进贡。
Against him Shalmaneser the king of Assyria came up, and Hoshea became his servant and rendered presents to him.
17:4 后来亚述王发现何细亚背叛，因他差使者去见埃及王梭，不照已往年年所行的，给亚述王献上贡物；亚述王就把他锁禁，囚在监里。
But the king of Assyria found conspiracy in Hoshea; for he had sent messengers to So the king of Egypt and did not send up a present to the king of Assyria as he
had from year to year. And the king of Assyria shut him up and bound him in prison.
17:5 亚述王上来攻击以色列遍地，上到撒玛利亚，围困三年。
And the king of Assyria invaded the whole land, and he went up against Samaria and besieged it three years.
17:6 何细亚第九年，亚述王攻取了撒玛利亚，将以色列人迁徙到亚述，把他们安置在哈腊，并歌散的哈博河边，以及玛代人的城邑。
In the ninth year of Hoshea, the king of Assyria took Samaria and carried Israel away into Assyria; and he placed them in Halah and by the Habor, the river of
Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes.
17:7 这是因以色列人犯罪得罪那把他们从埃及王法老手下，从埃及地领上来的耶和华他们的神，去敬畏别神，
And this happened because the children of Israel sinned against Jehovah their God, who had brought them up out of the land of Egypt from under the hand of
Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and had feared other gods;
17:8 照耶和华在他们面前所赶出之外邦人的风俗，和以色列诸王所定的条规而行。
And they walked in the statutes of the nations that Jehovah had dispossessed from before the children of Israel and those of the kings of Israel, which they had
made.
17:9 以色列人暗中行不正的事，违背耶和华他们的神，在他们所有的城邑，从了望楼直到坚固城，为自己建筑邱坛；
And the children of Israel secretly did things against Jehovah their God that were not right; and they built high places in all their cities for themselves, from the
watchmen's tower to the fortified city.
17:10 在各高冈上、各青翠树下，为自己立柱像和木像；
And they set up for themselves pillars and Asherahs on every high hill and under every flourishing tree;
17:11 在那里各邱坛上烧香，正如耶和华在他们面前所迁出之外邦人所行的，又行恶事惹动耶和华的怒气；
And there they burned incense in all the high places, as did the nations that Jehovah had carried away from before them, and they did wicked things to provoke
Jehovah to anger;
17:12 且事奉偶像，虽然耶和华曾对他们说，你们不可行这事。
And they served idols, concerning which Jehovah had said to them, You shall not do this thing.
17:13 耶和华藉众申言者、众先见，警戒以色列人和犹大人，说，当从你们的恶道转回，照着我吩咐你们列祖，并藉我仆人众申言者所传给你们的一切律
法，谨守我的诫命和律例。
And Jehovah testified against Israel and against Judah through all the prophets and all the seers, saying, Turn from your evil ways; and keep My commandments
and My statutes, according to all the law which I commanded your fathers and which I sent to you through My servants the prophets.
17:14 他们却不听从，竟硬着颈项，像他们的列祖不相信耶和华他们的神，硬着颈项一样。
But they would not hear; and they stiffened their necks, which became like the neck of their fathers, who did not believe in Jehovah their God.
388
17:15 他们厌弃祂的律例，和祂与他们列祖所立的约，并祂警戒他们的话，随从虚无的神，自己成为虚妄，又随从周围的外邦人，虽然耶和华曾吩咐他们，
不可像那些人那样行事。
And they rejected His statutes and His covenant, which He had made with their fathers, and His testimonies, which He had testified unto them; and they followed
vanity and became vain, and went after the nations that were around them, concerning whom Jehovah had charged them not to act like them.
17:16 他们离弃耶和华他们神的一切诫命，为自己铸了两个牛犊的像，造了亚舍拉像，敬拜天上的万象；并且事奉巴力。
And they forsook all the commandments of Jehovah their God and made for themselves molten images, that is, two calves; and they made an Asherah and
worshipped all the host of heaven; and they served Baal.
17:17 又使他们的儿女经火，并且占卜、行法术，卖了自己，行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，惹动祂的怒气。
And they caused their sons and their daughters to pass through fire and practiced divination and enchantments; and they sold themselves to do what was evil in
the sight of Jehovah, in order to provoke Him to anger.
17:18 所以耶和华向以色列人大大发怒，从自己面前赶出他们，只剩下犹大一个支派。
Therefore Jehovah was very angry with Israel, and He removed them out of His sight; nothing remained except the tribe of Judah.
17:19 犹大人也不遵守耶和华他们神的诫命，反倒照以色列人所定的条例而行。
Judah also did not keep the commandments of Jehovah their God but walked in the statutes of Israel, which they had made.
17:20 耶和华就厌弃以色列所有的后裔，使他们受苦，把他们交在抢夺他们的人手中，直到赶出他们离开自己面前。
And Jehovah rejected all the seed of Israel; and He afflicted them and delivered them into the hand of plunderers, until He had cast them out of His sight.
17:21 祂将以色列国从大卫家夺回；他们就立尼八的儿子耶罗波安作王。耶罗波安驱使以色列人不随从耶和华，使他们犯了大罪。
For He tore Israel from the house of David. Now they had made Jeroboam the son of Nebat king, and Jeroboam drove Israel away from following Jehovah and
made them commit a great sin.
17:22 以色列人行在耶罗波安所犯的一切罪中，总不离开，
And the children of Israel walked in all the sins of Jeroboam which he did; they did not depart from them,
17:23 直到耶和华将以色列人从自己面前赶出，正如祂藉祂仆人众申言者所说的。这样，以色列人从本地被迁徙到亚述，直到今日。
Until Jehovah removed Israel from His sight, as He had said through all His servants the prophets. And Israel was carried away from their own land to Assyria; as
it is unto this day.
17:24 亚述王从巴比伦、古他、亚瓦、哈马、和西法瓦音把人迁来，安置在撒玛利亚的各城，
And the king of Assyria brought from Babylon and from Cuthah and from Avva and from Hamath and from Sepharvaim, and made them dwell in the cities of
Samaria in place of the children of Israel; and they took possession of Samaria and dwelt in its cities.
17:25 代替以色列人；他们就得了撒玛利亚为业，住在其中的各城。他们才住那里的时候，不敬畏耶和华，所以耶和华叫狮子进入他们中间，咬死了些人。
And when they began dwelling there, they did not fear Jehovah, so Jehovah sent lions among them, which killed some of them.
17:26 有人告诉亚述王说，你所迁徙安置在撒玛利亚各城的那些民，不知道那地之神的规矩，所以祂打发狮子进入他们中间；看哪，狮子咬死他们，因为
他们不知道那地之神的规矩。
And they spoke to the king of Assyria, saying, The nations that you have carried away and made to dwell in the cities of Samaria do not know the custom of the
God of the land; therefore He has sent lions among them, and now they are killing them because they do not know the custom of the God of the land.
17:27 亚述王就吩咐说，你们叫一个从那里迁徙来的祭司回去，住在那里，将那地之神的规矩指教那些民。
And the king of Assyria gave a command, saying, Take there one of the priests whom you have carried away from there; and let him go and dwell there, and let
him teach them the custom of the God of the land.
17:28 于是有一个从撒玛利亚迁徙去的祭司回来，住在伯特利，指教他们怎样敬畏耶和华。
Then one of the priests whom they had carried away from Samaria came and dwelt in Bethel, and he taught them how to fear Jehovah.
17:29 然而，各邦国之人在所住的城里，仍然制造自己的神像，安置在撒玛利亚人所造邱坛的庙中。
And every nation made gods of their own and put them in the houses of the high places that the Samaritans had made, every nation in their cities in which they
dwelt.
17:30 巴比伦人造疏割比讷像；古他人造匿甲像；哈马人造亚示玛像；
And the people of Babylon made Succoth-benoth, and the people of Cuth made Nergal, and the people of Hamath made Ashima,
17:31 亚瓦人造匿哈和他珥他像；西法瓦音人用火焚烧儿女，献给西法瓦音的神亚得米勒和亚拿米勒。
And the Avvites made Nibhaz and Tartak; and the Sepharvites burned their children in fire to Adrammelech and Anammelech, the gods of Sepharvaim.
17:32 他们惧怕耶和华，也从他们中间立各阶层的人作邱坛的祭司，为他们在邱坛的庙中献祭。
So they feared Jehovah; and they made for themselves from all their classes priests for the high places, who offered sacrifices for them in the houses of the high
places.
17:33 他们又惧怕耶和华，又事奉自己的神，从何邦迁来，就随何邦的风俗。
They feared Jehovah but served their own gods after the custom of the nations, from which they had been carried away.
17:34 他们直到今日仍照先前的风俗去行，不专心敬畏耶和华，不照着雅各子孙的律例和典章，也不照着耶和华吩咐他们的律法和诫命而行；这雅各，就
是从前耶和华起名叫以色列的。
Unto this day they have done according to their former customs: They do not fear Jehovah; nor do they act according to their statutes and their ordinances, nor
according to the law and commandment that Jehovah commanded the sons of Jacob, whom He named Israel.
17:35 耶和华曾与他们立约，吩咐他们说，你们不可敬畏别神，不可跪拜事奉他们，也不可向他们献祭；
And Jehovah had made a covenant with them and commanded them, saying, You shall not fear other gods, nor bow down to them, nor serve them, nor sacrifice
to them.
17:36 惟独耶和华，就是那用大能和伸出来的膀臂领你们从埃及地上来的，你们当敬畏、跪拜，向祂献祭。
But Jehovah alone, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt with great power and with an outstretched arm, Him shall you fear, and Him shall you worship,
and to Him shall you sacrifice.
17:37 祂给你们写的律例、典章、律法和诫命，你们应当永远谨守遵行；你们不可敬畏别神。
And the statutes and the ordinances and the law and the commandment which He wrote out for you, you shall be certain to do forever; and you shall not fear
other gods.
17:38 我耶和华与你们所立的约，你们不可忘记，也不可敬畏别神；
And you shall not forget the covenant that I have made with you, neither shall you fear other gods;
17:39 但要敬畏耶和华你们的神，祂必救你们脱离一切仇敌的手。
389
But you shall fear Jehovah your God, and He will deliver you out of the hand of all your enemies.
17:40 他们却不听从，仍照先前的风俗去行。
But they did not listen but acted according to their former customs.
17:41 如此，这些民又惧怕耶和华，又事奉他们雕制的偶像，他们的子子孙孙也是这样；他们的祖宗怎样行，他们也照样行，直到今日。
So these nations feared Jehovah but served their graven images, as well as their children and their children's children; as their fathers had done, so they have
done unto this day.
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 18 章
18:1 以色列王以拉的儿子何细亚第三年，犹大王亚哈斯的儿子希西家登基。
And in the third year of Hoshea the son of Elah, the king of Israel, Hezekiah the son of Ahaz, the king of Judah, began to reign.
18:2 他登基的时候年二十五岁，在耶路撒冷作王二十九年；他母亲名叫亚比，是撒迦利雅的女儿。
He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty- nine years in Jerusalem; and his mother's name was Abi, the daughter of
Zechariah.
18:3 希西家行耶和华眼中看为正的事，是照他祖大卫一切所行的。
And he did what was right in the sight of Jehovah, according to all that David his father had done.
18:4 他废去邱坛，拆毁柱像，砍下木像，打碎摩西所造的铜蛇，因为到那时以色列人仍向铜蛇烧香；希西家叫铜蛇为尼户士坦。
He removed the high places and broke down the pillars and cut down the Asherah and broke in pieces the bronze serpent that Moses had made, for until those
days the children of Israel had burned incense to it; and he called it Nehushtan.
18:5 希西家信靠耶和华以色列的神，在他前后的犹大诸王中没有一个像他的。
He trusted in Jehovah the God of Israel, so that after him there was no one like him among all the kings of Judah, nor any among those who were before him.
18:6 他紧联于耶和华，总不离开而不跟随祂，并且谨守耶和华所吩咐摩西的诫命。
And he clung to Jehovah; he did not turn away from following after Him but kept His commandments, which Jehovah commanded Moses.
18:7 耶和华与他同在，他无论往何处去，尽都顺利。他背叛亚述王，不肯事奉他。
And Jehovah was with him; everywhere he went, he prospered. And he rebelled against the king of Assyria and would not serve him.
18:8 希西家击败非利士人，直到迦萨，并迦萨的四境，从了望楼到坚固城。
He struck the Philistines as far as Gaza and its borders, from the watchmen's tower to the fortified city.
18:9 希西家王第四年，就是以色列王以拉的儿子何细亚第七年，亚述王撒缦以色上来攻打撒玛利亚，将城围困；
And in the fourth year of King Hezekiah, which was the seventh year of Hoshea the son of Elah, the king of Israel, Shalmaneser the king of Assyria came up
against Samaria and besieged it.
18:10 过了三年就攻取了城。希西家第六年，以色列王何细亚第九年，撒玛利亚被攻取了。
And at the end of three years they took it; in the sixth year of Hezekiah, that is, the ninth year of Hoshea the king of Israel, Samaria was taken.
18:11 亚述王将以色列人掳到亚述，把他们安置在哈腊，并歌散的哈博河边，以及玛代人的城邑；
And the king of Assyria carried Israel away captive to Assyria and settled them in Halah and by the Habor, the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes;
18:12 都因他们不听从耶和华他们神的话，违背祂的约，就是耶和华仆人摩西所吩咐的一切，既不听从，也不遵行。
For they would not listen to the voice of Jehovah their God but transgressed His covenant, that is, all that Moses the servant of Jehovah had commanded; and
they would not listen to it nor do it.
18:13 希西家王十四年，亚述王西拿基立上来攻击犹大的一切坚固城，将那些城攻取了。
And in the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah, Sennacherib the king of Assyria went up against all the fortified cities of Judah and took them.
18:14 犹大王希西家差人往拉吉去见亚述王，说，我有罪了，求你离开我回去；凡你罚我的，我必承当。于是亚述王罚犹大王希西家银子三百他连得，
And Hezekiah the king of Judah sent word to the king of Assyria at Lachish, saying, I have sinned; withdraw from me. I will bear whatever you impose upon me.
And the king of Assyria imposed upon Hezekiah the king of Judah a levy of three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold.
18:15 金子三十他连得。希西家就把耶和华殿里和王宫府库里所有的银子都给了他。
And Hezekiah gave all the silver that was found in the house of Jehovah and in the treasuries of the king's house.
18:16 那时，犹大王希西家将耶和华殿门上的金子，和他自己包在柱上的金子，都剥下来，给了亚述王。
At that time Hezekiah stripped the doors of the temple of Jehovah and the posts that Hezekiah the king of Judah had overlaid, and he gave them to the king of
Assyria.
18:17 亚述王从拉吉差遣元帅、太监长、和军长率领大军往耶路撒冷，到希西家王那里去。他们上到耶路撒冷；来到以后，就站在上池的引水道旁，在通
往漂布地的大路上。
And the king of Assyria sent Tartan and Rab-saris and Rab-shakeh from Lachish to Jerusalem to King Hezekiah with a great force. And they went up and came
to Jerusalem. And when they came up, they came and stood by the conduit of the upper pool, which is on the road to the Fuller's Field.
18:18 他们呼叫王；希勒家的儿子家宰以利亚敬、书记舍伯那、和亚萨的儿子记事官约亚，就出来见他们。
And they called out to the king. And Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebnah the scribe and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder,
came out to them.
18:19 军长对他们说，你们去告诉希西家，亚述大王如此说，你所倚靠的有什么可仗赖的呢？
And Rab-shakeh said to them, Say now to Hezekiah, Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria: What is this confidence in which you trust?
18:20 你说有打仗的计谋和能力，我说，不过是虚言。你到底倚靠谁才背叛我呢？
You say (but it is a vain word), There is counsel and strength for war. Now in whom do you trust, that you rebel against me?
18:21 现在你倚靠埃及，乃是倚靠压伤的苇杖，人若靠这杖，这杖必刺透他的手；埃及王法老向一切倚靠他的人正是这样。
You now have put your trust in the staff of this broken reed, in Egypt, in that which, if a man should lean on it, it will go into his hand and pierce it; so is Pharaoh,
the king of Egypt, to all who trust in him.
18:22 你们若对我说，我们信靠耶和华我们的神；希西家岂不是曾将这位神的邱坛和祭坛废去，且对犹大和耶路撒冷的人说，你们当在耶路撒冷这坛前敬
拜么？
And if you say to me, We trust in Jehovah our God; is it not He whose high places and altars Hezekiah has taken away and has said to Judah and Jerusalem, You
shall worship only before this altar in Jerusalem?
390
18:23 现在你把抵押给我主亚述王，我就给你二千匹马，看你能不能派出足够骑马的人。
Now therefore give pledges to my master, the king of Assyria; and I will give you two thousand horses, if indeed you are able to set the riders on them.
18:24 若不然，你怎能拒绝我主臣仆中一位最小的官长呢？你竟倚靠埃及供应你战车马兵么？
How then can you refuse one official of the least of my master's servants and put your trust in Egypt for chariots and horsemen?
18:25 现在我上来攻击毁灭这地方，岂没有耶和华的意思么？耶和华对我说，你上去攻击毁灭这地罢。
Have I now come up apart from Jehovah against this place to destroy it? Jehovah said to me, Go up against this land and destroy it.
18:26 希勒家的儿子以利亚敬、舍伯那和约亚对军长说，求你用亚兰语和仆人说话，因为我们懂得；不要用犹大语和我们说话，免得达到城墙上百姓的耳
中。
And Eliakim the son of Hilkiah and Shebnah and Joah said to Rab-shakeh, Please speak to your servants in Aramaic, because we understand it; and do not
speak with us in the Jews' language in the hearing of the people who are upon the wall.
18:27 军长对他们说，我主差遣我来，岂是单对你的主和你说这些话么？不也是对这些坐在城墙上，要与你们一同吃自己粪、喝自己尿的人说么？
But Rab-shakeh said to them, Has my master sent me only to your master and to you to speak these words, and not to the men who sit on the wall, that they
may eat their own dung and drink their own urine with you?
18:28 于是军长站着，用犹大语大声喊着说，你们当听亚述大王的话。
And Rab-shakeh stood and cried with a loud voice in the Jews' language and spoke and said, Hear the word of the great king, the king of Assyria:
18:29 王如此说，你们不要被希西家欺哄了，因他不能救你们脱离我的手。
Thus says the king, Do not let Hezekiah deceive you, because he is not able to deliver you out of my hand.
18:30 也不要让希西家使你们信靠耶和华，说，耶和华必拯救我们，这城必不交在亚述王的手中。
Neither let Hezekiah cause you to trust in Jehovah, saying, Jehovah will surely deliver us, and this city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.
18:31 不要听希西家的话，因亚述王如此说，你们要与我和好，出来向我投降；各人就可以吃自己葡萄树和无花果树的果子，喝自己井里的水；
Do not listen to Hezekiah; for thus says the king of Assyria, Make your peace with me, and come out to me; and let each eat from his own vine and each from his
own fig tree, and let each drink the waters of his own cistern,
18:32 等我来领你们到一地，与你们本地一样，就是有五谷和新酒之地，有粮食和葡萄园之地，有橄榄树和蜂蜜之地，好使你们存活，不至于死。希西家
劝导你们说，耶和华必拯救我们；你们不要听他的话。
Until I come and take you away to a land like your land, a land of grain and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards, a land of olive trees and honey, that you
may live and not die. So do not listen to Hezekiah when he tries to persuade you, saying, Jehovah will deliver us.
18:33 列国的神有那一个曾救自己的地脱离亚述王的手呢？
Have any of the gods of the nations delivered at all their land out of the hand of the king of Assyria?
18:34 哈马、亚珥拔的神在那里？西法瓦音、希拿、以瓦的神在那里？他们曾救撒玛利亚脱离我的手么？
Where are the gods of Hamath and of Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivvah? And have they delivered Samaria out of my hand?
18:35 这些地所有的神中，有谁曾救自己的地脱离我的手呢？难道耶和华能救耶路撒冷脱离我的手么？
Who among all the gods of these lands have delivered their land out of my hand, that Jehovah should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?
18:36 百姓静默不言，并不回答一句，因为王曾吩咐说，不要回答他。
But the people were silent and did not answer him a word, because of the commandment of the king that said, You shall not answer him.
18:37 当下，希勒家的儿子家宰以利亚敬、书记舍伯那、并亚萨的儿子记事官约亚，都撕裂衣服，来到希西家那里，将军长的话告诉了他。
Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder, came to Hezekiah with their
clothes torn and told him the words of Rab-shakeh.
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 19 章
19:1 希西家王听见，就撕裂衣服，披上麻布，进了耶和华的殿。
And when King Hezekiah heard, he tore his clothes and covered himself with sackcloth and went into the house of Jehovah.
19:2 他打发家宰以利亚敬、书记舍伯那、和祭司中的长老，都披上麻布，去见亚摩斯的儿子申言者以赛亚，
And he sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe and the elders of the priests, who had covered themselves with sackcloth, to Isaiah the
prophet, the son of Amoz.
19:3 对他说，希西家如此说，今日是急难、责罚、凌辱的日子，就如孩子临产，妇人却没有力量生产。
And they said to him, Thus says Hezekiah, This day is a day of affliction and rebuke and contempt, for children have come to the point of birth, and there is no
strength to bring them forth.
19:4 或者耶和华你的神听见军长的一切话，就是他主人亚述王打发他来辱骂活神的话，耶和华你的神听见了，就斥责这些话。故此，求你为余剩的民扬声
祷告。
It may be that Jehovah your God will hear all the words of Rab-shakeh, whom his master the king of Assyria has sent to reproach the living God, and will reprove
the words which Jehovah your God has heard. Therefore lift up a prayer for the remnant which is left.
19:5 希西家王的臣仆就去见以赛亚。
So the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah.
19:6 以赛亚对他们说，要这样对你们的主人说，耶和华如此说，你听见亚述王的仆人亵渎我的话，不要惧怕。
And Isaiah said to them, Thus shall you say to your master, Thus says Jehovah, Do not be afraid of the words which you have heard, with which the servants of
the king of Assyria have blasphemed Me.
19:7 我必使一灵进入他里面，他要听见风声就归回本地。我必使他在那里倒在刀下。
Indeed, I will put a spirit in him, so that he will hear a report and return to his land. And I will cause him to fall by the sword in his own land.
19:8 军长回去，正遇见亚述王攻打立拿；原来他早听见亚述王拔营离开拉吉。
And Rab-shakeh returned and found the king of Assyria fighting against Libnah, because he had heard that the king had departed from Lachish.
19:9 亚述王听见人论古实王特哈加，说，他出来要与你争战。于是亚述王又打发使者去见希西家，
And he heard a report about Tirhakah the king of Ethiopia, which said, He has now come forth to make war with you. And he sent messengers again to Hezekiah,
saying,
19:10 说，你们对犹大王希西家如此说，不要让你所信靠的神欺哄你，说，耶路撒冷必不交在亚述王的手中。
391
Thus shall you speak to Hezekiah the king of Judah, saying, Do not let your God in whom you trust deceive you, saying, Jerusalem will not be delivered into the
hand of the king of Assyria.
19:11 你总听说亚述诸王向各地所行的，乃是尽行毁灭，难道你还能得拯救么？
Indeed, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands, destroying them utterly. And will you be delivered?
19:12 我列祖所毁灭的，就是歌散、哈兰、利色、和在提拉撒的伊甸人，这些国的神何曾拯救这些国呢？
Have the gods of the nations whom my fathers have destroyed delivered them: Gozan and Haran and Rezeph and the children of Eden, who were in Telassar?
19:13 哈马的王和亚珥拔的王，西法瓦音城、希拿、和以瓦的王都在那里呢？
Where are the king of Hamath and the king of Arpad and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, of Hena and Ivvah?
19:14 希西家从使者手里接过书信来，念完了，就上耶和华的殿，将书信展开在耶和华面前。
And Hezekiah took the letter from the hand of the messengers and read it, and Hezekiah went up to the house of Jehovah and spread it before Jehovah.
19:15 希西家在耶和华面前祷告，说，坐在二基路伯中间耶和华以色列的神阿，惟独你是地上万国的神，你曾创造诸天与地。
And Hezekiah prayed before Jehovah and said, O Jehovah, God of Israel, who dwells between the cherubim, You, You alone, are the God of all the kingdoms of
the earth; You made the heavens and the earth.
19:16 耶和华阿，求你侧耳而听；耶和华阿，求你睁眼而看；要听西拿基立打发使者来辱骂活神的话。
Incline Your ear, O Jehovah, and hear; open Your eyes, O Jehovah, and see; and listen to the words of Sennacherib, who has sent him to reproach the living God.
19:17 耶和华阿，亚述诸王果真使列国和列国之地变为荒凉，
Truly, O Jehovah, the kings of Assyria have laid waste the nations and their lands,
19:18 将列国的神像都扔在火里，因为它们本不是神，乃是人手所造的，是木头和石头，所以被灭绝。
And have cast their gods into the fire, because they were not gods but the work of men's hands, wood and stone; so they destroyed them.
19:19 耶和华我们的神阿，现在求你救我们脱离亚述王的手，使地上万国都知道，惟独你耶和华是神。
And now, O Jehovah our God, save us from his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that You alone, O Jehovah, are God.
19:20 亚摩斯的儿子以赛亚就打发人去见希西家，说，耶和华以色列的神如此说，你既向我祷告亚述王西拿基立的事，我已听见了。
Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent a message to Hezekiah, saying, Thus says Jehovah the God of Israel, Because you have prayed to Me concerning Sennacherib
king of Assyria, I have heard.
19:21 所以耶和华论他这样说，锡安的处女藐视你，嗤笑你；耶路撒冷的女子在你背后摇头。
This is the word which Jehovah has spoken concerning him: The virgin daughter of Zion Has despised you and laughed at you; The daughter of Jerusalem Has
shaken her head behind you.
19:22 你辱骂谁？亵渎谁？你扬起声来，高举眼目攻击谁呢？乃是攻击以色列的圣者。
Whom have you reproached and reviled? Against whom have you lifted up your voice And lifted up your eyes haughtily? Against the Holy One of Israel.
19:23 你藉你的使者辱骂主，你说，我率领许多战车上了山岭的高处，到了利巴嫩极深之处；我砍伐了其中高大的香柏树和佳美的松树；
By your messengers you have reproached the Lord, And you have said, In the multitude of my chariots I have come up to the height of the mountains, To the
sides of Lebanon; And I have cut down its tall cedars, And the choicest of its cypresses; And I have entered into its farthest lodging place, And its luxuriant forest.
19:24 我进到其中极远的住处，和其中茂密的树林。我挖井喝了外邦的水；我用脚掌踏干了埃及一切的河。
I have dug And have drunk foreign waters, And with the sole of my feet I have dried up All the rivers of Egypt.
19:25 耶和华说，我早先所作的，古时所定的，你岂没有听见么？现在我将它实现，就是藉你使坚固城荒废，变为乱堆。
Have you not heard That long ago I did it And that from the days of old I had formed it? Now I have brought it to pass, That you should destroy fortified cities And
make them into ruinous heaps.
19:26 所以其中的居民力量短缺，惊惶羞愧；他们像田间的菜蔬，和嫩草的青苗，如长在房顶上的草，未长成就被晒枯。
Therefore their inhabitants were short of strength; They were dismayed and felt ashamed; They were like vegetation of the field And green shoots of tender grass,
Like grass which grows on the housetops And is scorched before it has grown up.
19:27 你坐下，你出去，你进来，你向我发烈怒，我都知道。
But I know your sitting down, And your going out and your coming in, And your raging against Me.
19:28 因你向我发烈怒，又因你狂傲的话上达我的耳中，我必用钩子钩住你的鼻子，把嚼环放在你的嘴里，使你从原路转回去。
Because your raging against Me And your arrogance have come up into My ears, I will put My hook in your nose, And My bridle in your lips; And I will turn you
back on the way by which you came.
19:29 希西家阿，这是给你的兆头：你们今年要吃遗落自生的，明年也要吃遗落自长的；至于后年，你们要撒种收割，栽植葡萄园，吃其中的果子。
And this shall be the sign to you: This year you shall eat that which grows up of itself, and in the second year that which shoots up from the same, and in the third
year sow and reap and plant vineyards and eat their fruit.
19:30 犹大家所逃脱余剩的，仍要往下扎根，向上结果。
And the remnant of those who have escaped of the house of Judah will again take root downward and bear fruit upward.
19:31 必有余剩的民从耶路撒冷而出，必有逃脱的人从锡安山而来。万军之耶和华的热心必成就这事。
For a remnant will go forth out of Jerusalem, and from Mount Zion those who have escaped. The zeal of Jehovah of hosts will perform this.
19:32 所以，耶和华论亚述王如此说，他必不得来到这城，也不在这里射箭；不得拿盾牌到城前，也不筑垒攻城。
Therefore thus says Jehovah concerning the king of Assyria, He shall not come to this city, Nor shoot an arrow there; Neither shall he come against it with a shield
And build up a mound against it.
19:33 他从那条路来，必从那条路回去，必不得进入这城；这是耶和华说的。
By the way on which he came, By the same shall he return, And into this city he shall not come, Declares Jehovah.
19:34 我为自己的缘故，又为我仆人大卫的缘故，必保护拯救这城。
And around this city I will put an enclosure, To save it, For My own sake, And for the sake of David, My servant.
19:35 当夜，耶和华的使者出去，在亚述营中杀了十八万五千人。清早有人起来一看，都是死尸了。
And that night an angel of Jehovah went out and struck the Assyrians' camp, a hundred and eighty-five thousand; and when they rose up early in the morning,
all of them were dead corpses.
19:36 亚述王西拿基立就拔营回去，住在尼尼微。
Then Sennacherib the king of Assyria departed and went back to dwell in Nineveh.
19:37 一日在他的神尼斯洛庙里叩拜，他儿子亚得米勒和沙利色用刀杀了他，就逃到亚拉腊地。他儿子以撒哈顿接续他作王。
392
And as he was worshipping in the house of Nisroch his god, Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons struck him down with the sword; and they escaped to the land
of Ararat. And Esarhaddon his son reigned in his place.
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 20 章
20:1 那些日子，希西家病得要死；亚摩斯的儿子申言者以赛亚去见他，对他说，耶和华如此说，你当留遗命给你的家，因为你将要死，不能活了。
In those days Hezekiah became mortally ill; and Isaiah the son of Amoz, the prophet, came to him and said to him, Thus says Jehovah, Put your house in order,
for you are about to die and will not live.
20:2 希西家就转脸朝墙，祷告耶和华，
And he turned his face to the wall and prayed to Jehovah, saying,
20:3 说，耶和华阿，求你记念我在你面前怎样按真实，并存完全的心行事，又作了你眼中所看为善的。希西家就痛哭了。
Now, O Jehovah, please remember how I have walked before You in truth and with a perfect heart and have done what is good in Your sight. And Hezekiah
wept many tears.
20:4 以赛亚出来，还没有出中院，耶和华的话就临到他，
And Isaiah had not gone out of the middle court when the word of Jehovah came to him, saying,
20:5 说，你回去告诉我民的领袖希西家，耶和华你祖大卫的神如此说，我听见了你的祷告，看见了你的眼泪。看哪，我必医治你；到第三日，你必上到耶
和华的殿。
Return and speak to Hezekiah the leader of My people, Thus says Jehovah, the God of David your father, I have heard your prayer; I have seen your tears. I will
now heal you: On the third day you will go up to the house of Jehovah;
20:6 我必加增你十五年的寿数，并且我要救你和这城脱离亚述王的手；我为自己和我仆人大卫的缘故，必保护这城。
And I will add to your life fifteen years; and I will deliver you and this city from the hand of the king of Assyria, and I will put an enclosure around this city for My
own sake and for the sake of David My servant.
20:7 以赛亚说，当取一块无花果饼来。人就取了来，贴在疮上，王便痊愈了。
And Isaiah said, Bring a cake of figs. And they brought it and laid it on the boil, and he recovered.
20:8 希西家问以赛亚说，耶和华必医治我，到第三日，我必上耶和华的殿，有什么兆头呢？
And Hezekiah said to Isaiah, What will be the sign that Jehovah will heal me and that I will go up to the house of Jehovah on the third day?
20:9 以赛亚说，耶和华必成就祂所说的事。这是祂给你的兆头；你要日影向前进十级呢？
And Isaiah said, This will be the sign from Jehovah to you, that Jehovah will do this thing which He has spoken. Shall the shadow go forward ten steps or go back
ten steps?
20:10 还是要往后退十级？希西家说，日影向前进十级容易，我要日影往后退十级。
And Hezekiah said, It is an easy matter for the shadow to go down ten steps. No; rather let the shadow go backward ten steps.
20:11 申言者以赛亚呼求耶和华，耶和华就使那落在亚哈斯台阶上的日影，往后退了十级。
And Isaiah the prophet cried to Jehovah; and He brought the shadow on the steps, which had descended on the steps of Ahaz, ten steps backward.
20:12 那时，巴比伦王巴拉但的儿子比罗达巴拉但听见希西家病了，就送书信和礼物给他。
At that time Berodach-baladan the son of Baladan, the king of Babylon, sent letters and a gift to Hezekiah, because he had heard that Hezekiah had been sick.
20:13 希西家听从使者的话，就把他整个宝库，银子、金子、香料、和贵重的膏油，以及他的军器库，并他所珍藏的一切，都给他们看；他家中和他所管
治的全境之内，希西家没有一样不给他们看的。
And Hezekiah listened to them and showed them all his treasury, the silver and the gold, and the spices and the fine oil, and his armory and everything which
was found among his treasures; there was nothing in his house or in all his dominion that Hezekiah did not show them.
20:14 于是申言者以赛亚来见希西家王，问他说，这些人说了什么？他们从那里来见你？希西家说，他们从远方的巴比伦来。
Then Isaiah the prophet came to King Hezekiah and said to him, What did these men say? And from where have they come to you? And Hezekiah said, They
have come from a distant land, from Babylon.
20:15 以赛亚说，他们在你家里看见了什么？希西家说，凡我家中所有的，他们都看见了；我所珍藏的，没有一样不给他们看的。
And he said, What have they seen in your house? And Hezekiah said, They have seen everything that is in my house; there is nothing among my treasures that I
have not shown them.
20:16 以赛亚对希西家说，你要听耶和华的话：
Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, Hear the word of Jehovah:
20:17 日子必到，凡你家里所有的，并你列祖积蓄到今日的，都要被带到巴比伦去，不留下一样；这是耶和华说的。
The days are now coming when everything that is in your house and that your fathers have laid up as a treasure unto this day will be carried away to Babylon;
nothing will be left, says Jehovah.
20:18 并且从你而出，你所生的子孙中，必有被掳去在巴比伦王宫里当太监的。
And they will take away some of your sons who will issue from you, whom you will beget, and they will become eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon.
20:19 希西家对以赛亚说，你所说耶和华的话甚好。他又说，在我的年日中必有太平和稳固的景况。
And Hezekiah said to Isaiah, The word of Jehovah which you have spoken is good. He said moreover, Indeed there will be peace and truth in my days.
20:20 希西家其余的事，和他的勇力，他怎样挖池、挖引水道、引水入城，岂不都写在犹大诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Hezekiah and all his might, and how he made the pool and the conduit and brought the water into the city, are they not written in the
book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
20:21 希西家与他列祖同睡。他儿子玛拿西接续他作王。
And Hezekiah slept with his fathers. And Manasseh his son reigned in his place.
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 21 章
21:1 玛拿西登基的时候年十二岁，在耶路撒冷作王五十五年；他母亲名叫协西巴。
Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem; and his mother's name was Hephzibah.
393
21:2 玛拿西行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，就像耶和华在以色列人面前赶出的外邦人所行可憎的事一样。
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah, like the abominations of the nations whom Jehovah had dispossessed from before the children of Israel.
21:3 他重建他父亲希西家所毁坏的邱坛，又为巴力立坛，造亚舍拉像，就如以色列王亚哈所行的，且敬拜事奉天上的万象。
And he rebuilt the high places that Hezekiah his father had destroyed, and he raised up altars to Baal and made an Asherah, as Ahab the king of Israel had
done; and he worshipped all the host of heaven and served them.
21:4 他又在耶和华的殿中筑坛；耶和华曾指着这殿说，我必立我的名在耶路撒冷。
And he built altars in the house of Jehovah, concerning which Jehovah had said, In Jerusalem will I put My name.
21:5 他在耶和华殿的两院中为天上的万象筑坛，
And he built altars to all the host of heaven in the two courts of the house of Jehovah.
21:6 并使他的儿子经火，又观兆，行法术，立交鬼的和行巫术的，多行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，惹动祂的怒气。
And he caused his son to pass through fire and practiced soothsaying and enchantments, and appointed mediums and spiritists; he did what was evil in the
sight of Jehovah beyond measure, provoking Him to anger.
21:7 他又把他所造的亚舍拉雕像放在殿内；论到这殿，耶和华曾对大卫和他儿子所罗门说，我要在这殿，并在我从以色列众支派中所选择的耶路撒冷，立
我的名，直到永远；
And he put the engraved image of the Asherah that he had made in that house concerning which Jehovah had said to David and to Solomon his son, In this
house and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, I will put My name forever;
21:8 只要以色列人照着我一切所吩咐他们的，并照着我仆人摩西所吩咐他们的一切律法，谨守遵行，我就不再使他们飘流，离开我所赐给他们列祖之地。
And I will no longer cause the foot of Israel to wander away from the land that I gave their fathers, if only they will be certain to act according to all that I have
commanded them and according to all the law that My servant Moses commanded them.
21:9 他们却不听从；玛拿西引诱他们行恶，比耶和华在以色列人面前所灭的列国更甚。
But they would not listen, and Manasseh led them astray to do more evil than the nations which Jehovah had destroyed from before the children of Israel.
21:10 耶和华藉祂仆人众申言者说，
And Jehovah spoke through His servants the prophets, saying,
21:11 因犹大王玛拿西行这些可憎的事，行恶比先前亚摩利人所行的更甚，并且用他的偶像，使犹大人犯罪；
Because Manasseh the king of Judah has done these abominations and has done more evil than all that the Amorites did, who were before him, and has
caused Judah also to sin with his idols;
21:12 所以耶和华以色列的神如此说，看哪，我必将这样的灾祸降与耶路撒冷和犹大，叫一切听见的人无不耳鸣。
Therefore thus says Jehovah the God of Israel, I am now bringing such evil upon Jerusalem and Judah that both ears of everyone who hears of it will tingle.
21:13 我必将量撒玛利亚的准绳，和亚哈家的线铊，拉在耶路撒冷上，且必擦净耶路撒冷，如人擦盘，擦净了就将盘倒扣。
And over Jerusalem I will stretch the line of Samaria and the plummet of the house of Ahab, and I will wipe Jerusalem as one wipes a pan, wiping it and turning it
upside down.
21:14 我必丢弃我产业中余剩的民，把他们交在自己的仇敌手中，使他们成为一切仇敌掳掠抢夺之物；
And I will forsake the remnant of My inheritance and deliver them into the hand of their enemies, and they will become plunder and spoil to all their enemies;
21:15 是因他们自从列祖出埃及之日，直到如今，常行我眼中看为恶的事，惹动我的怒气。
Because they have done what is evil in My sight and have provoked Me to anger since the day their fathers came forth out of Egypt even to this day.
21:16 玛拿西行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，使犹大人犯罪；除了这罪以外，又流许多无辜人的血，使这血充满了耶路撒冷，从这边直到那边。
And Manasseh also shed very much innocent blood, until he filled Jerusalem with it from one end to another, besides his sin by which he caused Judah to sin,
doing what was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
21:17 玛拿西其余的事，凡他所行的，和他所犯的罪，岂不都写在犹大诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Manasseh and all that he did and his sin which he committed, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
21:18 玛拿西与他列祖同睡，葬在自己宫中的园内，就是乌撒的园内。他儿子亚们接续他作王。
And Manasseh slept with his fathers and was buried in the garden of his own house, in the garden of Uzza. And Amon his son reigned in his place.
21:19 亚们登基的时候年二十二岁，在耶路撒冷作王二年；他母亲名叫米舒利密，是约提巴人哈鲁斯的女儿。
Amon was twenty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned two years in Jerusalem; and his mother's name was Meshullemeth, the daughter of
Haruz of Jotbah.
21:20 亚们行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，与他父亲玛拿西所行的一样。
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah, as Manasseh his father had done.
21:21 他行他父亲一切所行的道路，事奉并跪拜他父亲所事奉的偶像；
And he walked in all the way that his father had walked, and he served the idols that his father had served and worshipped them;
21:22 离弃耶和华他列祖的神，不行耶和华的道路。
And he forsook Jehovah, the God of his fathers, and did not walk in the way of Jehovah.
21:23 亚们的臣仆同谋背叛他，在宫里把王杀了。
And the servants of Amon conspired against him, and they killed the king in his own house.
21:24 但那地的民杀了所有同谋背叛亚们王的人，立他儿子约西亚接续他作王。
But the people of the land struck down all those who had conspired against King Amon. And the people of the land made Josiah his son king in his place.
21:25 亚们其余所行的事，岂不都写在犹大诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Amon that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
21:26 亚们葬在乌撒的园内，自己的坟墓里。他儿子约西亚接续他作王。
And he was buried in his grave in the garden of Uzza. And Josiah his son reigned in his place.
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 22 章
22:1 约西亚登基的时候年八岁，在耶路撒冷作王三十一年；他母亲名叫耶底大，是波斯加人亚大雅的女儿。
394
Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem; and his mother's name was Jedidah, the daughter of Adaiah
from Bozkath.
22:2 约西亚行耶和华眼中看为正的事，行他祖大卫一切所行的道路，不偏左右。
And he did what was right in the eyes of Jehovah and walked in all the way of David his father and did not turn to the right or to the left.
22:3 约西亚王十八年，王差遣米书兰的孙子，亚萨利的儿子，书记沙番到耶和华殿去，吩咐他说，
In the eighteenth year of King Josiah, the king sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah the son of Meshullam, the scribe, to the house of Jehovah, saying,
22:4 你上去见大祭司希勒家，使他将奉到耶和华殿的银子，就是守门的从民中收聚的银子，结算清楚，
Go up to Hilkiah the high priest and have him sum up the money that is brought to the house of Jehovah, which the doorkeepers have collected from the people.
22:5 交给办事的，就是耶和华殿里督工的人，让他们交给耶和华殿里作工的人，好修理殿的破损之处；
And let them deliver it into the hand of those who do the work, who have the oversight of the house of Jehovah; and let them deliver it to those who do the work
who are in the house of Jehovah, for the repair of what was broken in the house,
22:6 就是交给木匠、建筑工和泥水匠，去买木料和凿成的石头，修理殿宇；
To the carpenters and the builders and the masons, and for the purchase of timber and hewn stones to repair the house.
22:7 将银子交在那些人手里，但不与他们算账，因为他们办事诚实可信。
But do not ask them for an accounting of the money delivered into their hand, for they work faithfully.
22:8 大祭司希勒家对书记沙番说，我在耶和华殿里得了律法书。希勒家将书递给沙番，沙番就读了。
Then Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the scribe, I have found the book of the law in the house of Jehovah. And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan, and he
read it.
22:9 书记沙番到王那里，回覆王说，你的仆人已将殿里所有的银子倒出来，交给办事的，就是耶和华殿里督工的人。
And Shaphan the scribe came to the king and brought back word to the king and said, Your servants have emptied out the money which was found in the house
and have delivered it into the hand of those who do the work, who have the oversight of the house of Jehovah.
22:10 书记沙番又告诉王说，祭司希勒家递给我一卷书。沙番就在王面前诵读那书。
And Shaphan the scribe reported to the king, saying, Hilkiah the priest has given me a book. And Shaphan read it aloud before the king.
22:11 王听见律法上的话，便撕裂衣服。
And when the king heard the words of the book of the law, he tore his clothes.
22:12 王吩咐祭司希勒家、沙番的儿子亚希甘、米该亚的儿子亚革波、书记沙番、和王的臣仆亚撒雅，说，
And the king commanded Hilkiah the priest and Ahikam the son of Shaphan and Achbor the son of Micaiah and Shaphan the scribe and Asaiah the king's
servant, saying,
22:13 你们去为我、为民、为全犹大的人，以所发现这书上的话求问耶和华；因为我们列祖没有听从这书上的言语，没有照著书上所写关于我们的事去行，
耶和华就向我们大发烈怒。
Go; inquire of Jehovah for me and for the people and for all Judah concerning the words of this book that has been found, for the anger of Jehovah which is
kindled against us is great, because our fathers have not listened to the words of this book by doing according to all that is written concerning us.
22:14 于是祭司希勒家和亚希甘、亚革波、沙番、亚撒雅，都去见女申言者户勒大；户勒大是管礼服的沙龙的妻子；沙龙是哈珥哈斯的孙子，特瓦的儿子。
户勒大住在耶路撒冷第二区；他们把事情告诉了她。
So Hilkiah the priest and Ahikam and Achbor and Shaphan and Asaiah went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tikvah, the son of Harhas,
the keeper of the wardrobe (now she dwelt in Jerusalem in the second quarter), and they spoke to her.
22:15 她对他们说，耶和华以色列的神如此说：你们对那差遣你们来见我的人说，
And she said to them, Thus says Jehovah the God of Israel: Tell the man who has sent you to me,
22:16 耶和华如此说，我必照着犹大王所诵读那书上的一切话，降祸与这地方和其上的居民；
Thus says Jehovah, I am now bringing evil to this place and upon its inhabitants, even all the words of the book which the king of Judah has read;
22:17 因为他们离弃我，向别神烧香，用他们手所作的一切惹我发怒，所以我的忿怒必向这地方发作，总不熄灭。
Because they have forsaken Me and have burned incense to other gods, so as to provoke Me to anger with all the work of their hands. Therefore My anger is
kindled against this place, and it shall not be quenched.
22:18 然而差遣你们来求问耶和华的犹大王，你们要这样对他说：耶和华以色列的神如此说，至于你所听见的话，
But to the king of Judah who sent you to inquire of Jehovah, thus shall you say to him: Thus says Jehovah the God of Israel, regarding the words which you have
heard,
22:19 就是我指着这地方和其上的居民所说，要使这地方和其上的居民变为荒凉、并受咒诅的话，你一听见便心里柔软，在我耶和华面前自卑，又撕裂衣
服，在我面前哭泣，因此我就应允了你；这是耶和华说的。
Because your heart was tender, and you humbled yourself before Jehovah when you heard what I spoke against this place and against its inhabitants, that they
would become a desolation and a curse, and you have torn your clothes and wept before Me, I also have heard you, declares Jehovah.
22:20 为此，我必使你归到你列祖那里，你必平平安安的归到坟墓里；我要降与这地方的一切灾祸，你也不至亲眼看见。他们就回覆王去了。
Therefore I will gather you to your fathers, and you will be gathered to your grave in peace; and your eyes will not see all the evil which I will bring upon this place.
And they brought back word to the king.
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 23 章
23:1 王差遣人招聚犹大和耶路撒冷的众长老到他那里。
Then the king sent men, and they gathered to him all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem.
23:2 王和犹大众人与耶路撒冷所有的居民，并祭司、申言者、和所有的百姓，无论大小，都上到耶和华的殿；王就把耶和华殿里所得约书中的一切话，念
给他们听。
And the king went up to the house of Jehovah, and all the men of Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem were with him, as well as the priests and the
prophets and all the people, both small and great; and he read aloud, in their hearing, all the words of the book of the covenant, which had been found in the
house of Jehovah.
23:3 王站在柱旁，在耶和华面前立约，要全心全魂跟从耶和华，谨守祂的诫命、法度和律例，成就这书上所记的约言。众民都一同立这约。
395
And the king stood beside the pillar and made a covenant before Jehovah, to walk after Jehovah and to keep His commandments and His testimonies and His
statutes with all his heart and with all his soul, so as to establish the words of this covenant which were written in this book. And all the people stood with the
covenant.
23:4 王吩咐大祭司希勒家和副祭司们，并守门的，将那为巴力和亚舍拉，并天上万象所造的一切器皿，都从耶和华殿里搬出去，
And the king commanded Hilkiah the high priest and the priests of the second order and the doorkeepers to bring out of the temple of Jehovah all the vessels
that were made for Baal and for Asherah and for all the host of heaven; and he burned them outside Jerusalem in the fields of Kidron and carried their ashes to
Bethel.
23:5 在耶路撒冷外汲沦溪旁的田间烧了，把灰拿到伯特利去。从前犹大诸王所立拜偶像的祭司，在犹大城邑的邱坛和耶路撒冷的周围烧香，现在王都废去，
又废去向巴力和日、月、星宿、并天上万象烧香的人；
And he did away with the idol priests, whom the kings of Judah had appointed to burn incense in the high places in the cities of Judah and the areas surrounding
Jerusalem, as well as those who burned incense to Baal, to the sun and to the moon and to the constellations and to all the host of heaven.
23:6 又从耶和华殿里将亚舍拉像搬到耶路撒冷外的汲沦溪那里，在汲沦溪焚烧，捣碎成灰，将灰撒在平民的坟上；
And he brought the Asherah from the house of Jehovah out of Jerusalem to the brook Kidron and burned it in the brook Kidron and ground it to dust and cast its
dust on the graves of the children of the people.
23:7 又拆毁耶和华殿里娈童的屋子，就是妇女为亚舍拉织挂饰的地方；
He also broke down the houses of the cult prostitutes which were in the house of Jehovah, where the women were weaving hangings for the Asherah.
23:8 并且从犹大的城邑带众祭司来，污秽祭司烧香的邱坛，从迦巴直到别是巴，又拆毁城门旁的邱坛，这些邱坛在邑宰约书亚的门口，进城门的左边。
Then he brought all the priests from the cities of Judah and defiled the high places where the priests burned incense, from Geba to Beer-sheba; and he broke
down the high places of the gates which were at the entrance of the gate of Joshua the governor of the city, which were on one's left at the gate of the city.
23:9 但是邱坛的祭司不登耶路撒冷耶和华的坛，只在他们弟兄中间吃无酵饼。
However the priests of the high places did not come up to the altar of Jehovah in Jerusalem, but they ate unleavened bread among their brothers.
23:10 王又污秽欣嫩子谷的陀斐特，不许人在那里使儿女经火献给摩洛；
And he defiled Topheth, which is in the valley of the sons of Hinnom, so that no one could make his son or his daughter pass through fire to Molech.
23:11 又将犹大诸王在耶和华殿入口，在圣殿区域内靠近太监拿单米勒的屋子，向日头所献的马废去，且将献给日头的车用火焚烧。
And he did away with the horses which the kings of Judah had dedicated to the sun, at the entrance of the house of Jehovah, by the chamber of Nathan-
melech the officer, which was in the precincts; and he burned the chariots of the sun with fire.
23:12 犹大诸王在亚哈斯楼顶上所筑的坛，和玛拿西在耶和华殿两院中所筑的坛，王都拆毁了，从那里迅速搬走，把灰倒在汲沦溪中。
And the altars which were on the roof at the upper chamber of Ahaz, which the kings of Judah had made, and the altars which Manasseh had made in the two
courts of the house of Jehovah, the king tore down; and he removed them quickly from there and cast their dust into the brook Kidron.
23:13 从前以色列王所罗门在耶路撒冷前，在毁灭山右边，为西顿人可憎的神亚斯他录、摩押人可憎的神基抹、亚扪人可憎的神米勒公所筑的邱坛，王都
污秽了。
And the high places which were before Jerusalem, which were on the right of the mount of destruction which Solomon the king of Israel had built to Ashtoreth,
the detestable thing of the Sidonians, and to Chemosh, the detestable thing of Moab, and to Milcom, the abomination of the children of Ammon, the king defiled.
23:14 又拆毁柱像，砍下亚舍拉像，将人的骨头充满了那些地方。
And he broke in pieces the pillars and cut down the Asherahs and filled their places with human bones.
23:15 还有伯特利的坛，就是那使以色列人犯罪，尼八的儿子耶罗波安所筑的邱坛，连这坛并邱坛，他也拆毁了。他将邱坛焚烧，打碎成灰，并焚烧了亚
舍拉像。
And furthermore the altar which was at Bethel, the high place which Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin, had made, even that altar and the
high place he broke down. And he burned the high place and beat it into dust and burned the Asherah.
23:16 约西亚转身，看见山上的坟墓，就打发人将坟墓里的骸骨取出来，烧在坛上，污秽了坛，正如从前神人所宣告耶和华的话。
Then Josiah turned and saw the graves which were there in the mountain, and he sent men and took the bones from the graves and burned them on the altar
and defiled it, according to the word of Jehovah, which the man of God proclaimed, who proclaimed these things.
23:17 约西亚问说，我所看见的是什么碑？那城里的人对他说，先前有神人从犹大来，预先宣告王现在向伯特利坛所行的事，这就是他的坟墓。
Then he said, What is this monument which I see? And the men of the city said to him, It is the grave of the man of God who came from Judah and proclaimed
these things which you have done against the altar in Bethel.
23:18 约西亚说，由他安息罢；不要让任何人挪移他的骸骨。他们就不动他的骸骨，
And he said, Let him rest; let no man move his bones. So they left his bones alone with the bones of the prophet who came from Samaria.
23:19 也不动从撒玛利亚来那申言者的骸骨。从前以色列诸王在撒玛利亚的城邑建筑邱坛的庙，
And Josiah also removed all the houses of the high places which were in the cities of Samaria, which the kings of Israel made, provoking Jehovah to anger, and
did to them according to all that he had done in Bethel.
23:20 惹动耶和华的怒气，现在约西亚也都废去了，并照着他在伯特利所行的一切，处理这些庙。他又将那里邱坛的祭司都宰杀在坛上，并在坛上烧人的
骨头，然后回耶路撒冷去。
And all the priests of the high places who were there he slaughtered on the altars and burned human bones on them. Then he returned to Jerusalem.
23:21 王吩咐众民说，你们当照这约书上所写的，向耶和华你们的神守逾越节。
And the king commanded all the people saying, Hold the Passover to Jehovah your God according to all that is written in this book of the covenant.
23:22 自从士师治理以色列人的日子，和以色列王、犹大王在位的一切日子以来，实在没有守过这样的逾越节；
Surely no Passover like this had been held since the days of the judges who judged Israel nor in all the days of the kings of Israel and of the kings of Judah.
23:23 只有约西亚王十八年在耶路撒冷向耶和华守这逾越节。
But in the eighteenth year of King Josiah this Passover was held to Jehovah in Jerusalem.
23:24 凡犹大地和耶路撒冷所见交鬼的、行巫术的、家中的神像、偶像、并一切可憎之物，约西亚尽都除掉，为要成就祭司希勒家在耶和华殿里所得之书
上所写律法的话。
And moreover Josiah utterly removed the mediums and the soothsayers and the teraphim and the idols and all the detestable things that were seen in the land
of Judah and in Jerusalem, that he might confirm the words of the law which were written in the book that Hilkiah the priest found in the house of Jehovah.
23:25 在约西亚以前，没有王像他照着摩西的一切律法，全心、全魂、全力回转归向耶和华；在他以后也没有一个王兴起像他。
396
And before him there was no king like him who turned to Jehovah with all his heart and with all his soul and with all his might according to all the law of Moses,
and after him no one has risen up like him.
23:26 然而，耶和华向犹大所发猛烈的怒气没有转消，是因玛拿西诸事惹动祂。
However Jehovah did not turn from His great burning anger with which His anger burned against Judah, because of all the provocations by which Manasseh
provoked Him.
23:27 耶和华说，我也必将犹大人从我面前赶出，如同赶出以色列人一般；我必弃掉我从前所选择的这城耶路撒冷，和我所说，我的名必立在那里的殿。
And Jehovah said, I will remove Judah also from My sight, as I have removed Israel. And I will cast off this city which I have chosen, Jerusalem, and the house of
which I said, My name will be there.
23:28 约西亚其余的事，凡他所行的，岂不都写在犹大诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Josiah and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
23:29 约西亚年间，埃及王法老尼哥上到伯拉河攻击亚述王；约西亚王出去接战。埃及王在米吉多看见约西亚，就杀了他。
In his days Pharaoh Neco, the king of Egypt, went up against the king of Assyria to the river Euphrates. And King Josiah went out to meet him; and when Pharaoh
Neco saw him at Megiddo, he killed him.
23:30 他的臣仆用车将他的死尸从米吉多送到耶路撒冷，葬在他自己的坟墓里。犹大地的民选取约西亚的儿子约哈斯，膏了他，立他接续他父亲作王。
And his servants drove him dead in a chariot from Megiddo and brought him to Jerusalem and buried him in his grave. And the people of the land took
Jehoahaz the son of Josiah and anointed him and made him king in the place of his father.
23:31 约哈斯登基的时候年二十三岁，在耶路撒冷作王三个月；他母亲名叫哈慕他，是立拿人耶利米的女儿。
Jehoahaz was twenty-three years old when he began to reign, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem; and the name of his mother was Hamutal, the
daughter of Jeremiah, from Libnah.
23:32 约哈斯行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，是照他列祖一切所行的。
And he did what was evil in the eyes of Jehovah, according to all that his fathers had done.
23:33 法老尼哥将约哈斯锁禁在哈马地的利比拉，不许他在耶路撒冷作王，又罚犹大地银子一百他连得，金子一他连得。
And Pharaoh Neco imprisoned him in Riblah, in the land of Hamath, so that he might not reign in Jerusalem; and he imposed on the land a fine of one hundred
talents of silver and a talent of gold.
23:34 法老尼哥立约西亚的儿子以利亚敬接续他父亲约西亚作王，给他改名叫约雅敬，却将约哈斯带到埃及，他就死在那里。
And Pharaoh Neco made Eliakim the son of Josiah king in the place of Josiah his father and changed his name to Jehoiakim. And he took Jehoahaz and brought
him to Egypt, and he died there.
23:35 约雅敬将金银给法老；他向那地的民征税，好照着法老的命令缴纳银子；他按着对各人所估定的，向那地的民索要金银，好给法老尼哥。
And Jehoiakim gave silver and gold to Pharaoh, but he taxed the land to give the silver according to Pharaoh's word. He exacted the silver and the gold from the
people of the land, from each man according to his estimation, to give it to Pharaoh Neco.
23:36 约雅敬登基的时候年二十五岁，在耶路撒冷作王十一年；他母亲名叫西布大，是鲁玛人毗大雅的女儿。
Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem; and the name of his mother was Zebidah, the daughter
of Pediah from Rumah.
23:37 约雅敬行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，是照他列祖一切所行的。
And he did what was evil in the eyes of Jehovah, according to all that his fathers had done.
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 24 章
24:1 约雅敬在位的日子，巴比伦王尼布甲尼撒上到犹大；约雅敬作他的臣仆三年，然后又背叛他。
In his days Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon came up, and Jehoiakim became his servant for three years; then he turned and rebelled against him.
24:2 耶和华打发迦勒底人、亚兰人、摩押人、和亚扪人，结队攻击约雅敬；祂打发他们攻击毁灭犹大，正如耶和华藉祂仆人众申言者所说的话。
And Jehovah sent against him bands of the Chaldeans and bands of the Syrians and bands of the Moabites and bands of the children of Ammon; and He sent
them against Judah to destroy it, according to the word of Jehovah, which He spoke through his servants the prophets.
24:3 这事临到犹大人，诚然是耶和华所命的，要将他们从自己面前赶出，是因玛拿西的罪，就是他一切所行的；
Surely it was at the command of Jehovah that this came to pass against Judah, to remove them out of His sight because of the sins of Manasseh, according to all
that he had done,
24:4 又因他流无辜人的血，使耶路撒冷满了无辜人的血；耶和华不肯赦免。
And also for the innocent blood that he shed; for he filled Jerusalem with innocent blood; and Jehovah would not forgive.
24:5 约雅敬其余的事，凡他所行的，岂不都写在犹大诸王记上么？
And the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
24:6 约雅敬与他列祖同睡。他儿子约雅斤接续他作王。
And Jehoiakim slept with his fathers. And Jehoiachin his son reigned in his place.
24:7 埃及王不再从他本地出来，因为巴比伦王将原属埃及王的地，从埃及小河，直到伯拉河，都夺去了。
And the king of Egypt did not come out of his land again, for the king of Babylon had taken all that belonged to the king of Egypt from the brook of Egypt to the
river Euphrates.
24:8 约雅斤登基的时候年十八岁，在耶路撒冷作王三个月；他母亲名叫尼护施他，是耶路撒冷人以利拿单的女儿。
Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he began to reign, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem; and the name of his mother was Nehushta, the daughter
of Elnathan from Jerusalem.
24:9 约雅斤行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，是照他父亲一切所行的。
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah, according to all that his father had done.
24:10 那时，巴比伦王尼布甲尼撒的臣仆上到耶路撒冷，城就被他们围困了。
At that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon went up to Jerusalem, and the city came under siege.
24:11 当他的臣仆围困城的时候，巴比伦王尼布甲尼撒亲自来攻城。
And Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon came against the city while his servants were besieging it.
24:12 犹大王约雅斤和他母亲、臣仆、首领、太监一同出城，投降巴比伦王；巴比伦王便拿住他，那时是巴比伦王第八年。
397
And Jehoiachin the king of Judah went out to the king of Babylon, he and his mother and his servants and his captains and his eunuchs; and the king of Babylon
took him in the eighth year of his reign.
24:13 巴比伦王从那里，将耶和华殿的一切宝物，和王宫里的宝物都拿去了，将以色列王所罗门所造耶和华殿里的一切金器都捣毁了，正如耶和华所说的；
And he brought out from there all the treasures of the house of Jehovah and the treasures of the king's house. And he cut in pieces all the golden vessels which
Solomon the king of Israel had made in Jehovah's temple, as Jehovah had said.
24:14 又将全耶路撒冷的人民和众首领，并所有大能的勇士，共一万人，连一切工匠、铁匠都迁徙了去；除了那地极贫穷的人以外，没有剩下的；
And he carried away into exile all Jerusalem and all the captains and all the mighty men of valor, ten thousand captives, and all the craftsmen and smiths. None
remained except the poorest people of the land.
24:15 并将约雅斤和王母、后妃、太监、与那地的权贵，都从耶路撒冷迁徙到巴比伦去了；
And he carried Jehoiachin away into exile to Babylon; and the king's mother and the king's wives and his eunuchs and the leading men of the land, he carried
away into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon.
24:16 又将一切勇士七千人，和工匠、铁匠一千人，都是能上阵的勇士，全迁徙到巴比伦去了。
And all the seven thousand men of valor and the one thousand craftsmen and smiths, all mighty men fit for war, even these the king of Babylon carried away into
exile to Babylon.
24:17 巴比伦王立约雅斤的叔叔玛探雅接替他作王，给玛探雅改名叫西底家。
Then the king of Babylon made Jehoiachin's uncle Mattaniah king in his place, and he changed his name to Zedekiah.
24:18 西底家登基的时候年二十一岁，在耶路撒冷作王十一年；他母亲名叫哈慕他，是立拿人耶利米的女儿。
Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem; and his mother's name was Hamutal, the daughter of
Jeremiah, from Libnah.
24:19 西底家行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，是照约雅敬一切所行的。
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah, according to all that Jehoiakim had done.
24:20 这些事临到耶路撒冷和犹大，是因耶和华的怒气发作，直到祂将人民从自己面前赶出。
For it was through the anger of Jehovah that this came to pass in Jerusalem and in Judah until He cast them out from His presence. And Zedekiah rebelled
against the king of Babylon.
列王纪下 2 Kings 第 25 章
25:1 后来西底家背叛了巴比伦王。西底家作王第九年十月初十日，巴比伦王尼布甲尼撒率领全军来攻击耶路撒冷，对城安营，四围筑垒攻城。
In the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon came, he and his whole army, against
Jerusalem and encamped against it; and they built a siege wall against it all around.
25:2 于是城被围困，直到西底家王十一年。
So the city came under siege until the eleventh year of King Zedekiah.
25:3 四月初九日，城里饥荒严重，甚至那地的百姓都没有粮食。
On the ninth day of the fourth month, the famine was so severe within the city that there was no food for the people of the land.
25:4 城被攻破，一切兵丁就在夜间从靠近王园两城墙之间的门，出城逃跑；迦勒底人正在四围攻城，王沿着通往亚拉巴的路逃去。
Then the city was breached, and all the men of war fled by night by way of the gate between the two walls, which was by the king's garden, while the Chaldeans
were all around the city; and the king went on the way toward the Arabah.
25:5 迦勒底人的军队追赶王，在耶利哥的平原追上他；他的全军都离开他四散了。
And the army of the Chaldeans pursued after the king, and they overtook him in the plains of Jericho; and all his army was scattered from him.
25:6 迦勒底人拿住王，带他到在利比拉的巴比伦王那里审判他。
And they seized the king and brought him up to the king of Babylon at Riblah, and they pronounced judgment upon him.
25:7 他们在西底家眼前杀了他的众子，并且剜了西底家的眼睛，用铜链锁着他，带到巴比伦去。
And they slaughtered Zedekiah's sons before his eyes then put out Zedekiah's eyes and bound him with bronze fetters and brought him to Babylon.
25:8 巴比伦王尼布甲尼撒十九年五月初七日，巴比伦王的臣仆，护卫长尼布撒拉旦来到耶路撒冷，
In the fifth month, on the seventh day of the month (this was the nineteenth year of King Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon), Nebuzaradan, the captain of the
bodyguard, the servant of the king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem.
25:9 焚烧耶和华的殿和王宫，并耶路撒冷的一切房屋；每一大幢的房屋，他都用火焚烧了。
And he burned the house of Jehovah and the king's house and all the houses of Jerusalem, and every large house he burned with fire.
25:10 跟从护卫长的迦勒底人全军，就拆毁耶路撒冷四围的城墙。
And all the army of the Chaldeans who were with the captain of the bodyguard broke down the walls around Jerusalem.
25:11 那时护卫长尼布撒拉旦将城里所剩下的百姓，并已经投降巴比伦王的人，以及所剩下的群众，都迁徙去了。
And the rest of the people who were left in the city and the deserters who deserted to the king of Babylon and the rest of the multitude, Nebuzaradan the captain
of the bodyguard carried away into exile.
25:12 但护卫长留下那地一些最穷的人，使他们修理葡萄园，耕种田地。
But the captain of the bodyguard left some of the poorest of the land to be vinedressers and field workers.
25:13 耶和华殿的铜柱，并耶和华殿的盆座和铜海，迦勒底人都打碎了，将那些铜运到巴比伦去了。
And the Chaldeans broke in pieces the bronze pillars, which were in the house of Jehovah, and the bases and the bronze sea, which were in the house of
Jehovah. And they carried their bronze to Babylon.
25:14 他们又把锅、铲、灯剪、调羹、并供职用的一切铜器，都带去了。
And they took away the pots and the shovels and the snuffers and the spoons and all the bronze vessels with which they ministered.
25:15 火盆和碗，无论金的银的，护卫长也都带去了。
And the captain of the bodyguard took away the firepans and the bowls: that which was of gold, for its gold, and that which was of silver, for its silver.
25:16 所罗门为耶和华殿所造的两根铜柱、一个铜海、和几个盆座，这一切器物的铜，多得无法可称。
As for the two pillars, the one sea, and the bases which Solomon had made for the house of Jehovah, the bronze of all these vessels was beyond weight.
25:17 这一根柱子高十八肘，柱上有铜的柱顶，高三肘；柱顶的周围有网子和石榴，都是铜的；那一根柱子，照此一样，也有网子。
398
The height of one pillar was eighteen cubits, and a bronze capital was upon it; and the height of the capital was three cubits; and a network and pomegranates
were upon the capital all around, all of bronze; and the second pillar was like these with a network.
25:18 护卫长拿住祭司长西莱雅、副祭司西番亚、和三个守门的；
And the captain of the bodyguard took Seraiah the chief priest and Zephaniah the second priest and the three doorkeepers.
25:19 又从城中拿住一个管理兵丁的太监，并在城里所遇常见王面的五个人，和检点那地人民之军长的书记，以及城里所遇见那地的民六十个人。
And from the city he took one eunuch, who was overseer of the men of war, and five men from the king's inner circle who were found in the city, and the scribe of
the captain of the army, who mustered the people of the land, and sixty men of the people of the land who were found in the city.
25:20 护卫长尼布撒拉旦将这些人带到在利比拉的巴比伦王那里。
And Nebuzaradan the captain of the bodyguard took them and brought them to the king of Babylon in Riblah.
25:21 巴比伦王就击杀他们，在哈马地的利比拉把他们处死。这样，犹大人被迁徙离开了本地。
And the king of Babylon struck them down and put them to death in Riblah, in the land of Hamath; so Judah was carried away into exile out of its land.
25:22 至于犹大地剩下的民，就是巴比伦王尼布甲尼撒所剩下的，巴比伦王立了沙番的孙子，亚希甘的儿子基大利管理他们。
And for the people who were left in the land of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon left behind, he appointed Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son
of Shaphan over them.
25:23 众军长和属他们的人听见巴比伦王立了基大利管理他们，就到米斯巴见基大利，其中有尼探雅的儿子以实玛利、加利亚的儿子约哈难、尼陀法人单
户篾的儿子西莱雅、玛迦人的儿子雅撒尼亚、和属他们的人。
And when all the captains of the forces, they and their men, heard that the king of Babylon had appointed Gedaliah, they came to Gedaliah at Mizpah, that is,
Ishmael the son of Nethaniah and Johanan the son of Kareah and Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite and Jaazaniah the son of the Maacathite, they
and their men.
25:24 基大利向他们和属他们的人起誓，说，你们不必惧怕迦勒底人的臣仆，只管住在这地服事巴比伦王，就可以安好无事。
And Gedaliah swore to them and their men and said to them, Do not be afraid of the servants of the Chaldeans; dwell in the land and serve the king of Babylon,
and it will be well with you.
25:25 七月间，王室的后裔以利沙玛的孙子，尼探雅的儿子以实玛利，带着十个人来，击杀了基大利，和同他在米斯巴的犹大人与迦勒底人。
In the seventh month, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah the son of Elishama, of the royal seed, came with ten men with him; and they struck down Gedaliah and he
died. And they did the same to the Jews and the Chaldeans who were with him at Mizpah.
25:26 于是众民，无论大小，连众军长，因为惧怕迦勒底人，都起身往埃及去了。
And all the people, both small and great, and the captains of the forces rose up and went to Egypt, for they were afraid of the Chaldeans.
25:27 犹大王约雅斤被迁徙后三十七年，就是巴比伦王以未米罗达登基那一年，十二月二十七日，巴比伦王使犹大王约雅斤抬头，提他出监；
In the thirty-seventh year of the exile of Jehoiachin the king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, Evil-merodach the king of
Babylon, in the year that he became king, released Jehoiachin the king of Judah from prison.
25:28 又对他说恩慈的话，使他的位高过与他一同在巴比伦众王的位。
And he spoke with him kindly and set his throne above the throne of the kings who were with him in Babylon.
25:29 他换下囚服，终身常在巴比伦王面前吃饭。
And Jehoiachin changed his prison clothes and ate his food in his presence continually all the days of his life.
25:30 他所需用的食物，不断由王赐给，每日一分，终身都是这样。
And for his allowance, a continual allowance was given to him by the king, a portion for each day, all the days of his life.