64. 约翰三书 3 John
约翰三书 3 John 第 1 章
1:1 作长老的写信给亲爱的该犹，就是我真实所爱的。
The elder to Gaius the beloved, whom I love in truthfulness.
1:2 亲爱的，我愿你凡事兴盛，身体健康，正如你的魂兴盛一样。
Beloved, concerning all things I wish that you may prosper and be in health, even as your soul prospers.
1:3 有弟兄来见证你持守真理，就是你在真理中行事为人，我就大大欢乐。
For I rejoiced greatly at the brothers' coming and testifying to your steadfastness in the truth, even as you walk in truth.
1:4 我听见我的儿女们在真理中行事为人，我的喜乐就没有比这个更大的。
I have no greater joy than these things, that I hear that my children are walking in the truth.
1:5 亲爱的，凡你向作客旅之弟兄所行的，都是忠信的；
Beloved, you do faithfully in whatever you have wrought for the brothers, and this for strangers,
1:6 他们在召会面前见证了你的爱；你照着与神相配的，送他们往前行，就作得好；
Who testified to your love before the church; whom you will do well to send forward in a manner worthy of God;
1:7 因他们是为那名出外，对于外邦人一无所取。
For on behalf of the Name they went out, taking nothing from the Gentiles.
1:8 所以我们应该款待、供应这样的人，使我们能成为在真理上的同工。
We therefore ought to support such ones that we may become fellow workers in the truth.
1:9 我曾略略的写信给召会；但那在他们中间好为首的丢特腓，不接待我们。
I wrote something to the church; but Diotrephes, who loves to be first among them, does not receive us.
1:10 所以我若去，必要提起他所行的事，就是他用恶言妄论我们；还不以此为足，他自己不接待弟兄，有人愿意接待，他也禁止，并且把他们赶出召会。
For this reason, if I come, I will bring to remembrance his works which he does, babbling against us with evil words; and not being satisfied with these, neither
does he himself receive the brothers, and those intending to do so he forbids and casts out of the church.
1:11 亲爱的，不要效法恶，只要效法善。行善的是出于神，行恶的未曾见过神。
Beloved, do not imitate the evil, but the good. He who does good is of God; he who does evil has not seen God.
1:12 有众人给低米丢作见证，又有真理本身给他作见证，就是我们也给他作见证，你也知道我们的见证是真的。
To Demetrius testimony has been borne by all and by the truth itself; and we also testify, and you know that our testimony is true.
1:13 我原有许多事要写给你，却不愿意用笔墨写给你；
I had many things to write to you, but I do not want to write to you with ink and pen;
1:14 但盼望快快的见你，我们当面交谈。愿你平安。朋友们都问你安。请你替我按着姓名问朋友们安。
But I hope to see you shortly, and we will speak face to face. Peace to you. The friends greet you. Greet the friends by name.