30. 阿摩司书 Amos
阿摩司书 Amos 第 1 章
1:1 当犹大王乌西雅，以色列王约阿施的儿子耶罗波安在位的日子，大地震前二年，提哥亚牧羊人中的阿摩司得了论以色列的话。
The words of Amos, who was among the sheep tenders from Tekoa, which he saw concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah the king of Judah and in the days of
Jeroboam the son of Joash, the king of Israel, two years before the earthquake.
1:2 他说，耶和华必从锡安吼叫，从耶路撒冷发声；牧人的草场要悲哀，迦密的山顶要枯干。
And he said, Jehovah will roar from Zion, And from Jerusalem He will utter His voice; And the pastures of the shepherds will mourn, And the top of Carmel will dry
up.
1:3 耶和华如此说，因大马色三番四次的犯罪，我必不免去他们的刑罚；因为他们以打粮食的尖利铁器打过基列。
Thus says Jehovah, Because of three transgressions of Damascus, Indeed, because of four, I will not turn away the punishment; Because they have threshed
Gilead With sharp threshing tools of iron.
1:4 我却要降火在哈薛的家中，烧灭便哈达的宫殿。
And I will send fire into the house of Hazael, And it will devour the palaces of Ben-hadad.
1:5 我必折断大马色的门闩，剪除亚文平原的居民和伯伊甸掌握权杖的；亚兰人必被掳到吉珥，这是耶和华说的。
And I will break the bar of Damascus, And I will cut off the inhabitant of the valley of Aven And him who holds the scepter from the Beth-eden; And the people of
Aram will go into captivity unto Kir, Says Jehovah.
1:6 耶和华如此说，因迦萨三番四次的犯罪，我必不免去他们的刑罚；因为他们将掳掠的众民全然掳掠，交给以东。
Thus says Jehovah, Because of three transgressions of Gaza, Indeed, because of four, I will not turn away the punishment; Because they carried away captive the
entire captivity In order to deliver them up to Edom.
1:7 我却要降火在迦萨的城墙，烧灭其中的宫殿。
And I will send fire to the wall of Gaza, And it will devour its palaces.
1:8 我必剪除亚实突的居民，和亚实基伦掌握权杖的；也必反手攻击以革伦；非利士人所余剩的必都灭亡，这是主耶和华说的。
And I will cut off the inhabitant from Ashdod And him who holds the scepter from Ashkelon, And I will turn My hand against Ekron; And the remnant of the
Philistines will perish, Says the Lord Jehovah.
1:9 耶和华如此说，因推罗三番四次的犯罪，我必不免去他们的刑罚；因为他们将掳掠的众民全然掳掠，交给以东，并不记念弟兄之间的盟约。
Thus says Jehovah, Because of three transgressions of Tyre, Indeed, because of four, I will not turn away the punishment; Because they delivered up the entire
captivity to Edom And did not remember a covenant among brothers.
1:10 我却要降火在推罗的城墙，烧灭其中的宫殿。
And I will send fire to the wall of Tyre, And it will devour its palaces.
1:11 耶和华如此说，因以东三番四次的犯罪，我必不免去他的刑罚；因为他拿刀追赶兄弟，塞住怜恤，时常发怒撕裂，长怀忿怒。
Thus says Jehovah, Because of three transgressions of Edom, Indeed, because of four, I will not turn away the punishment; Because he pursued his brother with
the sword And stifled his compassions; And his anger raged continually, And he kept his overflowing wrath perpetually.
1:12 我却要降火在提幔，烧灭波斯拉的宫殿。
And I will send fire upon Teman, And it will devour the palaces of Bozrah.
1:13 耶和华如此说，因亚扪人三番四次的犯罪，我必不免去他们的刑罚；因为他们剖开基列的孕妇，扩张自己的境界。
Thus says Jehovah, Because of three transgressions of the children of Ammon, Indeed, because of four, I will not turn away the punishment; Because they ripped
up the pregnant women of Gilead In order to enlarge their border.
1:14 我却要在争战呐喊的日子，在暴风动荡的时候，点火在拉巴的城墙，烧灭其中的宫殿。
And I will kindle a fire in the walls of Rabbah, And it will devour its palaces With shouting in the day of battle, With a tempest in the day of the storm wind.
1:15 他们的王和首领必一同被掳去，这是耶和华说的。
And their king will go into captivity, He and his princes together, Says Jehovah.
阿摩司书 Amos 第 2 章
2:1 耶和华如此说，因摩押三番四次的犯罪，我必不免去他的刑罚；因为他将以东王的骸骨焚烧成灰。
Thus says Jehovah, Because of three transgressions of Moab, Indeed, because of four, I will not turn away the punishment; Because he burned the bones Of the
king of Edom into lime.
2:2 我却要降火在摩押，烧灭加 的宫殿；摩押必在哄嚷、呐喊、角声中死亡。
And I will send fire upon Moab, And it will devour the palaces of Kerioth; And Moab will die amid tumult, With shouting, with the sound of a trumpet.
2:3 我必剪除摩押中的审判者，将其中的一切首领，和他一同杀戮，这是耶和华说的。
And I will cut off the judge from the midst of it And will slay all its princes with him, Says Jehovah.
2:4 耶和华如此说，因犹大三番四次的犯罪，我必不免去他们的刑罚；因为他们厌弃耶和华的律法，不遵守祂的律例；他们列祖所随从的虚假偶像使他们
走迷了。
Thus says Jehovah, Because of three transgressions of Judah, Indeed, because of four, I will not turn away the punishment; Because they have rejected the law of
Jehovah And have not kept His statutes; And their lies have caused them to err, The lies which their fathers walked after.
2:5 我却要降火在犹大，烧灭耶路撒冷的宫殿。
And I will send fire upon Judah, And it will devour the palaces of Jerusalem.
2:6 耶和华如此说，因以色列三番四次的犯罪，我必不免去他们的刑罚；因他们为银子卖了义人，为一双鞋卖了穷人。
Thus says Jehovah, Because of three transgressions of Israel, Indeed, because of four, I will not turn away the punishment; Because they have sold the righteous
for silver And the needy for a pair of sandals -
2:7 他们见穷人头上所蒙的尘土也都垂涎，阻碍谦卑人的道路；父子同去亲近一个少年女子，以致亵渎我的圣名。
They who pant after the dust of the earth upon the heads of the poor, And turn aside the way of the meek. And a man and his father go in unto the same young
woman, In order to profane My holy name.
864
2:8 他们在各坛旁铺人所抵押的衣服，卧在其上；又在他们神的庙中，喝受罚之人的酒。
And upon garments taken as pledge they lay themselves down Beside every altar, And in the house of their God they drink The wine of those who have been
fined.
2:9 我从以色列人面前除灭亚摩利人；他虽高大如香柏树，坚固如橡树，我却毁坏其上的果子，灭绝其下的根本。
But I destroyed the Amorite before them, Whose height was like the height of the cedars, And he was as strong as the oaks; Yet I destroyed his fruit from above
And his roots from beneath.
2:10 我也将你们从埃及地领上来，在旷野引导你们四十年，使你们得亚摩利人之地为业。
And I brought you up from the land of Egypt And led you in the wilderness for forty years, To possess the land of the Amorites.
2:11 我从你们子孙中兴起申言者，又从你们少年人中兴起拿细耳人。以色列人哪，不是这样么？这是耶和华说的。
And I raised up some of your sons as prophets And some of your young men as Nazarites. Is it not indeed so, O children of Israel? Declares Jehovah.
2:12 你们却给拿细耳人酒喝，嘱咐申言者说，不要说预言。
But you made the Nazarites drink wine And commanded the prophets, saying, Do not prophesy.
2:13 看哪，我必压你们，如同装满禾捆的车压物一样。
Indeed I will press on you, As a cart that is full of sheaves presses.
2:14 快跑的不能逃走，强壮的不能加力，刚勇的也不能救自己；
And flight will perish from the swift, And the strong will not strengthen his force, Nor will the mighty deliver his soul;
2:15 拿弓的不能站立，腿快的不能逃脱，骑马的也不能救自己。
And he who wields the bow will not stand, And he who is swift of foot will not deliver himself, And he who rides the horse will not deliver his soul.
2:16 到那日，勇士中最有胆量的，必赤身逃跑，这是耶和华说的。
And he who is stout-hearted among the mighty men Will flee away naked in that day, Declares Jehovah.
阿摩司书 Amos 第 3 章
3:1 以色列人哪，你们全族是我从埃及地领上来的，当听耶和华攻击你们的这话，说，
Hear this word that Jehovah has spoken against you, O children of Israel, against the whole family that I brought up from the land of Egypt, saying,
3:2 在地上万族中，我只认识你们；因此，我必追讨你们的一切罪孽。
Only you have I known Of all the families of the earth; Therefore I will visit upon you All your iniquities.
3:3 二人若不在约定的地方相会，岂能同行呢？
Will two walk together If they have not met at an appointed place?
3:4 狮子若无猎物，岂会在林中咆哮么？少壮狮子若无所得，岂会从洞中发声么？
Will the lion roar in the forest When he has no prey? Will a young lion utter his voice from his den If he has not seized anything?
3:5 若没有设网罗的，雀鸟岂会陷在地上的网罗里么？网罗若无所得，岂会从地上弹起么？
Will a bird fall into a trap on the earth When there is no snare laid for it? Will a trap spring up off the ground When it has seized nothing at all?
3:6 城中若吹角，百姓岂不惊恐么？城中若有灾祸，岂非耶和华所降的么？
Can a trumpet be blown in a city And the people not dread? Can there be ill in a city And Jehovah did not do it?
3:7 主耶和华若不将秘密启示祂的仆人众申言者，就一无所行。
Surely the Lord Jehovah will not do anything unless He reveals His secret to His servants the prophets.
3:8 狮子吼叫，谁不惧怕呢？主耶和华说了话，谁能不申言呢？
The lion has roared-Who will not fear? The Lord Jehovah has spoken-Who can but prophesy?
3:9 要在亚实突的宫殿中，和埃及地的宫殿里，使人听见，说，你们要聚集在撒玛利亚的山上，就看见城中有何等大的扰乱，在城内有何等的欺压；
Cause it to be heard in the palaces of Ashdod And in the palaces of the land of Egypt, and say, Assemble yourselves in the mountains of Samaria, And see what
great tumults are in the midst of it And what oppressions are within it;
3:10 那些把强暴和残害，积蓄在自己宫中的人，不知道行正直的事；这是耶和华说的。
And they do not know to do what is right, Declares Jehovah, They who store up violence and devastation in their palaces.
3:11 所以主耶和华如此说，必有敌人包围这地，使你的势力衰微，抢掠你的宫殿。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, An adversary! Indeed one surrounding the land; And he will bring down your strength from you, And your palaces will be
plundered.
3:12 耶和华如此说，牧人怎样从狮子口中抢回两条羊腿或一片耳朵，住撒玛利亚的以色列人得救，也不过只剩床榻的一角，和一件铺丝毯的床褥。
Thus says Jehovah, As the shepherd rescues Out of the mouth of the lion Two legs or a piece of the ear, So will the children of Israel Who dwell in Samaria be
rescued, With the corner of a bed And a silk cushion of a couch.
3:13 主耶和华万军之神说，当听这话，作证警戒雅各家。
Hear, and testify against the house of Jacob, declares the Lord Jehovah, the God of hosts.
3:14 我追讨以色列罪的日子，也要追讨伯特利祭坛的罪；坛角必被砍下，坠落于地。
For in the day when I visit The transgressions of Israel upon him, I will visit the altars of Bethel, And the horns of the altar will be cut off And will fall to the ground.
3:15 我要击打过冬和过夏的房屋，象牙的房屋也必毁灭，许多房屋必归无有，这是耶和华说的。
And I will strike the winter house Along with the summer house; And the houses of ivory will perish, And many houses will come to an end, Declares Jehovah.
阿摩司书 Amos 第 4 章
4:1 你们在撒玛利亚山上的巴 母牛阿，当听这话；你们欺负贫寒的，压碎穷乏的，对他们的主人说，拿酒来，我们喝罢。
Hear this word, O heifers of Bashan, which are on the mountain of Samaria, Who oppress the poor And crush the needy, Who say to their lords, Bring, and let us
drink.
4:2 主耶和华指着自己的圣别起誓，说，日子快要临到你们，人必用钩子将你们钩去，用鱼钩将你们的后代钩去。
The Lord Jehovah has sworn by His holiness Indeed days are coming upon you When one will take you away with hooks, And your posterity, with fish hooks.
865
4:3 你们各人必从破口直往前行，投入哈门；这是耶和华说的。
And you will go out through the breaches, each one straight ahead of her; And you will cast yourselves into Harmon, declares Jehovah.
4:4 你们往伯特利去犯罪，到吉甲加增罪过；每日早晨献上你们的祭物，每三日奉上你们的十分之一。
Come to Bethel, and transgress; To Gilgal, and multiply transgression; And bring your sacrifices every morning And your tithes every three days,
4:5 以色列人哪，你们献有酵的感谢祭，宣报甘心祭给众人听见；因为这些是你们所喜爱的，这是主耶和华说的。
And offer in smoke a thank offering out of what is leavened; And proclaim freewill offerings; make them known; For you love them, O children of Israel, Declares
the Lord Jehovah.
4:6 我也使你们在一切城中牙齿干净，在你们各处粮食缺乏。你们仍不归向我；这是耶和华说的。
And I also have given you Cleanness of teeth in all your cities And want of bread in all your places. Yet you have not returned to Me, Declares Jehovah.
4:7 在收割的前三月，我使雨停止，不降给你们；我降雨在一座城，不降雨在另一座城；一块地有雨，另一块地无雨，就枯干了。
And I have also withheld the rain from you When there was yet three months until the harvest; And I made it rain on one city, But on another city I did not make it
rain; One portion was rained on, And the portion that was not rained on dried up.
4:8 两三城的人凑到一城去喝水，却喝不足。你们仍不归向我；这是耶和华说的。
And two or three cities wandered to one city to drink water, But they were not satisfied. Yet you have not returned to Me, Declares Jehovah.
4:9 我以旱风、霉烂击打你们；你们的许多园子和葡萄园，你们的无花果树、橄榄树，都被剪蝗吞吃；你们仍不归向我；这是耶和华说的。
I have stricken you with blight and mildew; The multitudes of your gardens and your vineyards, And your fig trees and your olive trees, the cutting locust has
devoured. Yet you have not returned to Me, Declares Jehovah.
4:10 我打发瘟疫到你们中间，像到埃及一样；用刀杀戮你们的少年人，使你们的马匹被掳掠；我使你们营中尸首的臭气扑鼻；你们仍不归向我；这是耶和
华说的。
I have sent among you pestilence after the manner of Egypt; I have slain your choice young men with the sword, taking your horses captive; And I have caused
the stench of your camp to go up even into your own nostrils. Yet you have not returned to Me, Declares Jehovah.
4:11 我倾覆你们中间的城邑，如同神从前倾覆所多玛、蛾摩拉一样，使你们好像从火中抽出来的一根柴；你们仍不归向我，这是耶和华说的。
I have overturned cities among you, As when God overturned Sodom and Gomorrah; And you were like a brand plucked out of the burning. Yet you have not
returned to Me, Declares Jehovah.
4:12 因此，以色列阿，我必向你这样行；以色列阿，我既必这样行，你当预备迎见你的神。
Therefore this is what I will do to you, O Israel; And because I will do this to you, Prepare to meet your God, O Israel.
4:13 那造山，创风，将祂的意念指示人，使晨光变为幽暗，脚踏在地之高处的，耶和华万军之神是祂的名！
For it is He who forms the mountains and creates the wind And declares to man what His thought is; He who makes the morning darkness And treads upon the
high places of the earth-Jehovah the God of hosts is His name!
阿摩司书 Amos 第 5 章
5:1 以色列家阿，要听这话，就是我为你们所作的哀歌。
Hear this word that I take up as a lamentation over you, O house of Israel.
5:2 以色列处女跌倒，不得再起；她被抛在自己地上，无人搀扶。
Fallen and no more to rise Is the virgin of Israel; She has been cast down upon her land; There is none to raise her up.
5:3 因为主耶和华如此说，以色列家的城发出一千兵的，只剩一百；发出一百的，只剩十个。
For thus says the Lord Jehovah, The city that sent forth a thousand Will have a hundred left, And that which sent forth a hundred Will have ten left, To the house of
Israel.
5:4 耶和华向以色列家如此说，你们要寻求我，就必存活；
For thus says Jehovah to the house of Israel, Seek Me, and live;
5:5 不要寻求伯特利，不要进入吉甲，不要过到别是巴；因为吉甲必被掳掠，伯特利也必归于无有。
And do not seek Bethel, Nor go to Gilgal, Nor pass on to Beer-sheba; For Gilgal will surely go into captivity, And Bethel will become vanity.
5:6 要寻求耶和华，就必存活；免得祂在约瑟家如火焚烧，将其吞灭；伯特利的火无人扑灭。
Seek Jehovah, and live; Lest He rush upon the house of Joseph like fire, And it devour it, and there be none to extinguish the fire in Bethel.
5:7 他们使公平变为茵蔯，将公义丢弃于地。
They turn justice to wormwood And thrust righteousness down to the ground.
5:8 那造昴星和参星，使死荫变为早晨，使白日变为黑夜，召唤海水倾倒在地面上的，耶和华是祂的名，
He who makes the Pleiades and Orion And turns the shadow of death into the morning And darkens the day with the night; He who calls for the water of the sea
And pours it upon the surface of the earth, Jehovah is His name,
5:9 祂使强壮的忽遭毁灭，以致保障遭遇毁坏。
Who causes destruction to flash forth upon the strong, So that destruction comes upon the fortress.
5:10 你们怨恨那在城门口责备人的，憎恶那说话纯全的。
They hate him who reproves in the gate, And him who speaks with integrity they abhor.
5:11 因为你们践踏贫民，从他们强取麦子为礼物；所以你们用凿过的石头建造房屋，却不得住在其内，栽种美好的葡萄园，却不得喝所出的酒。
Therefore because you trample upon the poor And take a forced gift of wheat from them; You have built houses of hewn stone, But you will not dwell in them;
You have planted desirable vineyards, But you will not drink their wine.
5:12 因为我知道你们的过犯甚多，你们的罪极大；你们苦待义人，收受赎金，在城门口屈枉穷乏人。
For I know that your transgressions are many And that your sins are mighty, You who vex the righteous and take ransom payment And turn aside justice for the
needy in the gate.
5:13 所以通达人在这时候，必静默不言，因为时候邪恶。
Therefore he who has insight will keep silent at this time, for it is an evil time.
5:14 你们要求善，不要求恶，就必存活；这样，耶和华万军之神必照你们所说的，与你们同在。
Seek good and not evil, In order that you may live; And so Jehovah the God of hosts will be with you, As you say.
5:15 要恨恶邪恶，喜爱良善，在城门口建立公义；或者耶和华万军之神，向约瑟的余民施恩。
866
Hate evil and love good, And set up justice in the gate. Perhaps Jehovah the God of hosts will be gracious To the remnant of Joseph.
5:16 因此主耶和华万军之神如此说，在一切宽阔处必有哀号的声音；在各街道上必有人说，哀哉！哀哉！又必叫农夫来哭号，叫善唱哀歌的来哀哭。
Therefore thus says Jehovah, The God of hosts, the Lord: In all the open plazas there will be wailing, And in all the streets they will say, Alas! Alas! And they will
call the farmer to mourning, And for wailing to those skilled in lamentation.
5:17 在各葡萄园必有哀哭的声音，因为我必从你中间经过；这是耶和华说的。
In all the vineyards there will be wailing, For I will pass through your midst, says Jehovah.
5:18 想望耶和华日子来到的，有祸了！耶和华的日子与你们有什么好处呢？那日黑暗无光，
Woe to you who desire The day of Jehovah! What good is the day of Jehovah to you? It will be darkness and not light,
5:19 好像人躲避狮子，却遇见熊，或是进房屋以手靠墙，就被蛇咬。
As when a man flees from before a lion And encounters a bear, Or goes into the house and leans his hand against the wall, And a serpent bites him.
5:20 耶和华的日子，不是黑暗无光么？不是幽暗毫无光辉么？
Will not the day of Jehovah be darkness and not light, Even deep darkness and no brightness to it?
5:21 我恨恶厌弃你们的节期，也不喜悦你们的严肃会。
I hate, I despise, your feasts, And I will not delight in your solemn assemblies.
5:22 你们虽然向我献上燔祭和素祭，我却不悦纳；也不顾你们用肥畜所献的平安祭。
For if you offer up to Me burnt offerings And your meal offerings, I will not accept them; Nor will I regard the peace offerings of your fatted animals.
5:23 你们要使歌唱的声音远离我，因为我不听你们弹琴的响声。
Take the noise of your songs away from Me, For I will not hear the melody of your harps.
5:24 惟愿公平如大水滚滚，公义如江河滔滔。
But let justice roll down like water, And righteousness, like an ever-flowing river.
5:25 以色列家阿，你们在旷野四十年，岂是将祭牲和素祭献给我呢？
Did you bring Me sacrifices and meal offerings In the wilderness for forty years, O house of Israel?
5:26 你们抬 你们的王索古特，并抬着你们的星神科完的像，就是你们为自己所造的。
Indeed, you took up Sikkuth your king And Kiyyun your images, the star of your gods that you made for yourselves.
5:27 所以我要把你们掳到大马色以外；这是耶和华说的；万军之神是祂的名。
Thus I will bring you into captivity Beyond Damascus, says Jehovah; The God of hosts is His name.
阿摩司书 Amos 第 6 章
6:1 在列国首领中著名，且为以色列家所归向，在锡安安然无虑，在撒玛利亚山自恃安稳的，有祸了！
Woe to those who are at ease in Zion And to those who are secure in the mountain of Samaria, The distinguished among the chief of the nations, To whom the
house of Israel comes!
6:2 你们要过到甲尼察看，从那里往大城哈马去，又下到非利士人的迦特。他们比这些国还强么？他们的境界比你们的境界还大么？
Go over into Calneh, and see; And go from there to Hamath the great; Then go down to Gath of the Philistines. Are they better than these kingdoms? Or is their
territory greater than your territory?
6:3 你们推开降祸的日子，又使强暴的座位靠近，
You who thrust away the evil day And cause the seat of violence to draw near,
6:4 你们躺卧在象牙床上，舒身在榻上，吃群中的羊羔和棚里的牛犊，
You who lie upon beds of ivory And sprawl out upon your couches And eat the lambs from the flock And the calves from the midst of the stall,
6:5 在琴声中闲谈，为自己制造乐器，如同大卫所造的，
You who prattle to the tune of the harp, Who make for yourselves instruments of song like David,
6:6 以献祭用的碗喝酒，用上等的油抹身；却不为约瑟的毁坏忧伤。
You who drink wine in sacrificial bowls And anoint yourselves with the finest oils; Yet you are not grieved about the destruction of Joseph.
6:7 所以现在这些人必在被掳的人中首先被掳；舒身的人荒宴狂欢之声必消灭了。
Therefore they will now go into captivity with the first of the captives, And the cry of revelry from those who sprawled themselves out will pass away.
6:8 主耶和华万军之神指着自己起誓，说，我憎恶雅各的骄傲，厌恨他的宫殿；因此，我必将城和其中所充满的，都交付敌人。
The Lord Jehovah has sworn by Himself, Declares Jehovah the God of hosts, I abhor the pride of Jacob, And his palaces I hate; Therefore I will deliver up the city
and its fullness.
6:9 那时，若在一房之内剩下十个人，也都必死。
And if ten men remain in one house, they will die.
6:10 死人的亲属，就是烧他尸首的，要将骸骨搬到房外，对房屋内间的人说，你那里还有人没有？他必说，没有；又说，不要作声，因为不可题耶和华的
名。
When his kinsman, that is, he who should burn his body, takes him up to bring his bones from the house, and says to him who is in the innermost part of the
house, Are there any more with you, and that one says, None; then he will say, Hush, for the name of Jehovah should not be mentioned.
6:11 因为耶和华出令，祂必将大房击破，将小屋打碎。
For it is Jehovah who commands, And He will strike the great house into fragments And the little house into pieces.
6:12 马岂能在崖石上奔跑？人岂能在那里用牛耕种呢？你们却使公理变为毒草，使公义的果子变为茵蔯，
Do horses run on rock? Or does one plow there with oxen? But you have turned justice into poison, And the fruit of righteousness into wormwood,
6:13 你们喜爱虚无的事，你们说，我们不是凭自己的力量取得了角么？
You who rejoice in that which is nothing, You who say, Have we not taken By our own strength horns for ourselves?
6:14 耶和华万军之神说，以色列家阿，我必兴起一国攻击你们；他们必欺压你们，从哈马口直到亚拉巴的河。
For I am about to raise up a nation over you, O house of Israel, declares Jehovah the God of hosts, And they will oppress you From the entrance of Hamath To the
brook of the Arabah.
867
阿摩司书 Amos 第 7 章
7:1 主耶和华指给我看：在为王割草之后，春季作物刚开始生长时，主造了蝗虫。
Thus the Lord Jehovah showed me, and there He was, forming locusts in the beginning of the springing up of the spring crop; and it was the spring crop after the
king's mowings.
7:2 蝗虫吃尽那地的青物，我就说，主耶和华阿，求你赦免！因为雅各微小，他怎能站立得住呢？
And when their eating of the herbage of the land was complete, I said, O Lord Jehovah, forgive, I beseech You! How will Jacob stand, for he is small?
7:3 耶和华就为此后悔：耶和华说，这灾必不发生。
Jehovah repented concerning this: It shall not be, says Jehovah.
7:4 主耶和华又指给我看：主耶和华召来火的刑罚，火就吞灭深渊，烧灭那地。
Thus the Lord Jehovah showed me, and there the Lord Jehovah was, calling to contend with them with fire; and it devoured the great deep, and it devoured the
land.
7:5 我就说，主耶和华阿，求你止息！因为雅各微小，他怎能站立得住呢？
Then I said, O Lord Jehovah, Stop, I beseech You! How will Jacob stand, for he is small?
7:6 耶和华就为此后悔：主耶和华说，这灾也必不发生。
Jehovah repented concerning this: This also shall not be, says the Lord Jehovah.
7:7 祂又指给我看：主站在一道按准绳筑好的墙上，祂手中拿着准绳。
Thus He showed me, and there the Lord was, standing upon a perfectly plumbed wall; and in His hand was a plumb line.
7:8 耶和华对我说，阿摩司阿，你看见什么？我说，一条准绳。主说，我要安放准绳在我民以色列中；我必不再放过他们。
And Jehovah said to me, What do you see, Amos? And I said, A plumb line. And the Lord said, I am now setting a plumb line in the midst of My people Israel; I
will not pass them by again any more.
7:9 以撒的邱坛必然荒废，以色列的圣所必成荒场；我必兴起，用刀攻击耶罗波安的家。
And the high places of Isaac will be desolated, And the sanctuaries of Israel will be made waste; And I will rise up against the house of Jeroboam with a sword.
7:10 伯特利的祭司亚玛谢打发人到以色列王耶罗波安那里，说，阿摩司在以色列家中，图谋背叛你；他所说的一切话，这地担当不起。
Then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent word to Jeroboam the king of Israel, saying, Amos has conspired against you in the midst of the house of Israel; the land is
not able to endure all his words.
7:11 因为阿摩司如此说，耶罗波安必被刀杀，以色列民定被掳去，离开本地。
For thus says Amos, By the sword Jeroboam will die, and Israel will surely go into captivity out from its land.
7:12 亚玛谢又对阿摩司说，你这先见哪，要逃往犹大地去，在那里糊口，在那里说预言；
Then Amaziah said to Amos, Go, you seer; flee into the land of Judah, and eat bread there, and prophesy there;
7:13 却不要在伯特利再说预言，因为这里是王的圣所，是王的宫殿。
But in Bethel you shall not ever prophesy again, for it is the king's sanc- tuary and it is the royal residence.
7:14 阿摩司回答亚玛谢说，我原不是申言者，也不是申言者的儿子；我是牧人，又是修剪桑树的。
Then Amos answered and said to Amaziah, I am no prophet, nor am I the son of a prophet; rather I am a herdsman and a dresser of sycamores.
7:15 耶和华选召我，使我不跟从羊群，对我说，你去向我民以色列说预言。
And Jehovah took me from following the flock, and Jehovah said to me, Go, prophesy to My people Israel.
7:16 亚玛谢阿，现在你要听耶和华的话；你说，不要说预言攻击以色列，也不要说话攻击以撒家。
And now hear the word of Jehovah: You say, You shall not prophesy against Israel, nor shall you speak against the house of Isaac.
7:17 所以耶和华如此说，你的妻子必在城中作妓女，你的儿女必倒在刀下，你的地必有人用绳子量了分取，你自己必死在污秽之地；以色列民定被掳去离
开本地。
Therefore thus says Jehovah, Your wife will go about as a harlot in the city, And your sons and your daughters will fall by the sword, And your land will be divided
by the line, And you yourself will die in a land that is unclean; And Israel will indeed go into captivity Out from its land.
阿摩司书 Amos 第 8 章
8:1 主耶和华又指给我看：有一筐夏天的果子。
Thus the Lord Jehovah showed me, and there was a basket of summer fruit.
8:2 祂说，阿摩司阿，你看见什么？我说，一筐夏天的果子。耶和华对我说，我民以色列的结局到了；我必不再放过他们。
And He said, What do you see, Amos? And I said, A basket of summer fruit. Then Jehovah said to me, The end has come upon My people Israel; I will not pass
them by again any more.
8:3 主耶和华说，那日殿中的诗歌必变为哀号。必有许多尸首在各处被人抛弃。你们不要作声！
And the songs of the temple will be wailings In that day, declares the Lord Jehovah. The corpses will be many; In every place They will cast them. Hush!
8:4 你们这些渴求夺取穷乏人，要除灭地上困苦人的，当听这话。
Hear this, you who pant after the needy To destroy the wretched of the earth,
8:5 你们说，月朔几时过去，我们好卖粮？安息日几时过去，我们好摆开麦子，把卖出用的量器弄小，把收银用的法码弄大，用诡诈的天平欺哄人；
Saying, When will the new moon be over, that we may sell grain? And the Sabbath, that we may lay open the wheat? In order to make the ephah small and the
shekel large And to falsify the balances for deceit;
8:6 好用银子买贫寒人，用一双鞋换穷乏人，将坏了的麦子卖给人。
That we may buy the poor for silver And the needy for a pair of sandals, And sell the refuse of the wheat.
8:7 耶和华指着雅各的超绝起誓，说，他们的一切行为，我必永远不忘。
Jehovah has sworn by the excellency of Jacob, I shall by no means forget any of their deeds forever.
8:8 地岂不因这事震动，住在其上的不也都悲哀么？地必全然像尼罗河涨起，如同埃及河涌上落下。
Will the land not quake because of this, And will all who dwell in it not mourn? Indeed all of it will rise up like the River, And it will be driven and will sink like the
river of Egypt.
8:9 主耶和华说，到那日，我必使日头在午间落下，使地在白日的光中变暗。
868
And in that day, Declares the Lord Jehovah, I will cause the sun to go down at noon, And I will darken the land in the light of day.
8:10 我必使你们的节期变为悲哀，一切歌曲变为哀歌；我必使众人腰束麻布，头上光秃；也必使这场悲哀如丧独生子，至终如痛苦的日子一样。
And I will turn your feasts into mourning And all your songs into lamentation; And I will bring up sackcloth upon all the loins And baldness upon every head; And I
will make it like the mourning for an only child And the end of it like a bitter day.
8:11 主耶和华说，日子将到，我必打发饥荒临到这地；人饥饿非因无饼，干渴非因无水，乃因听不见耶和华的话。
Indeed days are coming, Declares the Lord Jehovah, When I will send a hunger into the land, Not a hunger for bread Nor a thirst for water, But for hearing the
words of Jehovah.
8:12 他们必飘流，从这海到那海，从北边到东边；往来奔跑寻求耶和华的话，却寻不着。
And they will totter from sea to sea, And from the north even to the east; They will rove about, seeking the word of Jehovah, But they will not find it.
8:13 当那日，美貌的处女和少年的男子，必因干渴发昏。
In that day the beautiful virgins and the young men Will swoon because of thirst.
8:14 那指着撒玛利亚罪愆起誓的，说，但哪，我们指着你那里永活的神起誓！又说，我们指着别是巴永活的道起誓；这些人都必仆倒，不再起来。
They who swear by the trespass of Samaria And say, As your god lives, O Dan! And, As the way of Beer-sheba lives! Indeed they will fall and not rise up again.
阿摩司书 Amos 第 9 章
9:1 我看见主站在祭坛上面；祂说，你要击打柱顶，使门槛震动，打碎柱顶落在众人头上，所剩下的人我必用刀杀戮；无一人能逃避，无一人能逃脱。
I saw the Lord standing upon the altar. And He said, Strike the capitals of the pillars That the thresholds may shake. And break them off upon the heads of them
all, And the last of them I will slay with the sword: Any one of them who flees will not flee away, And any one of them who escapes will not slip by.
9:2 他们虽然挖进阴间，我的手必从那里取出他们来；虽然爬上天去，我必从那里拿下他们来。
Though they dig into Sheol, From there My hand will take them; And though they go up into heaven, From there I will bring them down.
9:3 虽然藏在迦密山顶，我必从那里搜寻捉出他们来；虽然从我眼前藏在海底，我必在那里命蛇咬他们。
And though they hide at the top of Carmel, From there I will seek them and take them. And though they hide themselves from My sight on the floor of the sea,
There I will command the serpent, and it will bite them.
9:4 虽然被仇敌掳去，我必在那里命刀剑杀戮他们；我必向他们定住眼目，降祸不降福。
And though they go into captivity before their enemies, There I will command the sword, and it will slay them; And I will set My eyes upon them For evil and not for
good.
9:5 主万军之耶和华摸地，地就镕化，凡住在其中的都必悲哀；地必全然像尼罗河涨起，如同埃及河落下。
For the Lord Jehovah of hosts Is the One who touches the land and it melts, And all those who dwell in it mourn; And all of it rises like the River, And it sinks like
the river of Egypt.
9:6 那在天上建造楼阁，在地上立定穹苍，召唤海水倾倒在地面的，耶和华是祂的名。
He is the One who builds His upper stories in the heavens And has founded His vault over the earth; He is the One who calls for the water of the sea And pours it
upon the surface of the earth; Jehovah is His name.
9:7 耶和华说，以色列人哪，我岂不看你们如古实人么？我岂不是领以色列人从埃及地上来，领非利士人从迦斐托出来，领亚兰人从吉珥出来么？
Are you not like the children of the Cushites To Me, O children of Israel? Declares Jehovah. Have I not brought up Israel Out from the land of Egypt, And the
Philistines out from Caphtor, And Aram out from Kir?
9:8 主耶和华的眼目察看这有罪的国，必将这国从地面上除灭，却不将雅各家灭绝净尽，这是耶和华说的。
Yes, the eyes of the Lord Jehovah Are on the sinful kingdom, And I will destroy it From off the face of the earth, Except that I will not utterly destroy the house of
Jacob, Declares Jehovah.
9:9 因为我必出令，将以色列家筛在列国中，好像谷粒用筛子筛过，然而连一粒也不落在地上。
For I will command And shake the house of Israel among all the nations, As grain is shaken in the sieve; Yet a kernel will not fall to the ground.
9:10 我民中的一切罪人必死在刀下，他们说，灾祸必追不上我们，也不四面临到我们。
All the sinners of My people Will die by the sword, Those who say, Evil will not overtake us Nor come before us on all sides.
9:11 到那日，我必建立大 倒塌的帐幕，堵住其中的破口，把那毁坏的建立起来，重新修造，像古时一样；
In that day I will raise up The fallen tabernacle of David, And I will wall up its breaches And raise up its ruins And build it up as it was in the days of old;
9:12 使以色列人得以东所余剩的，和所有称为我名下的国；这是行这事的耶和华说的。
That they may possess the remnant of Edom and all the nations which are called by My name, declares Jehovah who does this.
9:13 耶和华说，日子将到，耕种的必追上收割的，踹葡萄的必追上撒种的；大山要滴下甜酒，小山都必镕化。
Indeed days are coming, Declares Jehovah, When the plowman will overtake the reaper, And the grape treader, him who sows the seed; And the mountains will
drip sweet wine, And all the hills will melt.
9:14 我必使我民以色列被掳的归回，他们必修建荒废的城邑居住，栽种葡萄园，喝其中所出的酒，修造园子，吃其中的果子。
And I will turn the captivity of My people Israel, And they will build the desolated cities and inhabit them; And they will plant vineyards and drink the wine from
them, And make gardens and eat the fruit from them.
9:15 我要将他们栽于本地，他们不再从我所赐给他们的地上拔出来；这是耶和华你的神说的。
And I will plant them upon their land, and they will not be plucked up again from their land, which I have given to them, says Jehovah your God.