51. 歌罗西书 Colossians
歌罗西书 Colossians 第 1 章
1:1 凭神旨意，作基督耶稣使徒的保罗，和弟兄提摩太，
Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, and Timothy the brother,
1:2 写信给在歌罗西的圣徒，就是在基督里忠信的弟兄：愿恩典与平安，从神我们的父归与你们。
To the saints in Colossae and faithful brothers in Christ: Grace to you and peace from God our Father.
1:3 我们感谢神，我们主耶稣基督的父，常常为你们祷告，
We give thanks to God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always concerning you,
1:4 因听见你们对基督耶稣的信，并对众圣徒的爱，
Because we have heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and the love which you have unto all the saints
1:5 是因那给你们存在诸天之上的盼望，就是你们从前在福音真理的话上所听见的；
Because of the hope laid up for you in the heavens, of which you heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel,
1:6 这福音传到你们那里，也传到全世界，一直结果增长，正如在你们中间，自从你们听见，并在真实中认识神恩典的日子一样；
Which has come to you, even as it is also in all the world, bearing fruit and growing, as also in you, since the day you heard and knew the grace of God in truth;
1:7 正如你们从我们所亲爱，一同作奴仆的以巴弗所学的，他为你们作了基督忠信的执事，
Even as you learned from Epaphras, our beloved fellow slave, who is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf,
1:8 也把你们在那灵里的爱告诉了我们。
Who also has made known to us your love in the Spirit.
1:9 所以，我们自从听见的日子，也就为你们不住的祷告祈求，愿你们在一切属灵的智慧和悟性上，充分认识神的旨意，
Therefore we also, since the day we heard of it, do not cease praying and asking on your behalf that you may be filled with the full knowledge of His will in all
spiritual wisdom and understanding,
1:10 行事为人配得过主，以致凡事蒙祂喜悦，在一切善工上结果子，借着认识神而长大，
To walk worthily of the Lord to please Him in all things, bearing fruit in every good work and growing by the full knowledge of God,
1:11 照祂荣耀的权能，得以在各样的力上加力，使你们凡事欢欢喜喜的忍耐宽容，
Being empowered with all power, according to the might of His glory, unto all endurance and long-suffering with joy,
1:12 感谢父，叫你们够资格在光中同得所分给众圣徒的分；
Giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you for a share of the allotted portion of the saints in the light;
1:13 祂拯救了我们脱离黑暗的权势，把我们迁入祂爱子的国里；
Who delivered us out of the authority of darkness and transferred us into the kingdom of the Son of His love,
1:14 我们在爱子里得蒙救赎，就是罪得赦免。
In whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins;
1:15 爱子是那不能看见之神的像，是一切受造之物的首生者。
Who is the image of the invisible God, the Firstborn of all creation,
1:16 因为万有，无论是在诸天之上的、在地上的、能看见的、不能看见的、或是有位的、主治的、执政的、掌权的，都是在祂里面造的；万有都是借着祂
并为着祂造的；
Because in Him all things were created, in the heavens and on the earth, the visible and the invisible, whether thrones or lordships or rulers or authorities; all
things have been created through Him and unto Him.
1:17 祂在万有之先，万有也在祂里面得以维系；
And He is before all things, and all things cohere in Him;
1:18 祂也是召会身体的头；祂是元始，是从死人中复活的首生者，使祂可以在万有中居首位；
And He is the Head of the Body, the church; He is the beginning, the Firstborn from the dead, that He Himself might have the first place in all things;
1:19 因为一切的丰满，乐意居住在祂里面，
For in Him all the fullness was pleased to dwell
1:20 并且既借着祂在十字架上的血，成就了和平，便借着祂叫万有，无论是在地上的、或是在诸天之上的，都与自己和好了。
And through Him to reconcile all things to Himself, having made peace through the blood of His cross -- through Him, whether the things on the earth or the
things in the heavens.
1:21 你们从前是隔绝的，因着恶行心思里与祂为敌，
And you, though once alienated and enemies in your mind because of your evil works,
1:22 但如今祂在基督肉体的身体里，借着死，叫你们与自己和好了，把你们圣别、没有瑕疵、无可责备的呈献在自己面前；
He now has reconciled in the body of His flesh through death, to present you holy and without blemish and without reproach before Him;
1:23 只要你们一直留于信仰中，根基立定，坚定不移，不被移动离开福音的盼望；这福音就是你们所听过，传与天下一切受造之物的，我保罗也作了这福
音的执事。
If indeed you continue in the faith, grounded and steadfast and not being moved away from the hope of the gospel, which you heard, which was proclaimed in
all creation under heaven, of which I Paul became a minister.
1:24 现在我因着为你们所受的苦难喜乐，并且为基督的身体，就是为召会，在我一面，在我肉身上补满基督患难的缺欠；
I now rejoice in my sufferings on your behalf and fill up on my part that which is lacking of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh for His Body, which is the church;
1:25 我照神为你们所赐我的管家职分，作了召会的执事，要完成神的话，
Of which I became a minister according to the stewardship of God, which was given to me for you, to complete the word of God,
1:26 就是历世历代以来所隐藏的奥秘，但如今向祂的圣徒显明了；
The mystery which has been hidden from the ages and from the generations but now has been manifested to His saints;
1:27 神愿意叫他们知道，这奥秘的荣耀在外邦人中是何等的丰富，就是基督在你们里面成了荣耀的盼望；
To whom God willed to make known what are the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory,
1:28 我们宣扬祂，是用全般的智慧警戒各人，教导各人，好将各人在基督里成熟的献上；
Whom we announce, admonishing every man and teaching every man in all wisdom that we may present every man full-grown in Christ;
1:29 我也为此劳苦，照着祂在我里面大能的运行，竭力奋斗。
For which also I labor, struggling according to His operation which operates in me in power.
歌罗西书 Colossians 第 2 章
2:1 我愿意你们晓得，我为你们和那些在老底嘉，甚至所有在肉身上没有见过我面的人，是何等竭力奋斗，
For I want you to know how great a struggle I have for you and for those in Laodicea, even all who have not seen my face in the flesh,
2:2 要叫他们的心得安慰，在爱里结合一起，以致丰丰富富的在悟性上有充分的确信，能以完全认识神的奥秘，就是基督；
That their hearts may be comforted, they being knit together in love and unto all the riches of the full assurance of understanding, unto the full knowledge of the
mystery of God, Christ,
2:3 一切智慧和知识的宝藏，都藏在祂里面。
In whom all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge are hidden.
2:4 我说这话，免得有人用花言巧语欺骗你们。
This I say that no one may delude you with persuasive speech.
2:5 我在肉身里虽然离开，在灵里却与你们同在，欢喜看见你们整齐有序，并坚定的信入基督。
For even though I am absent in the flesh, yet in the spirit I am with you, rejoicing and seeing your order and the solid basis of your faith in Christ.
2:6 你们既然接受了基督，就是主耶稣，
As therefore you have received the Christ, Jesus the Lord, walk in Him,
2:7 在祂里面已经生根，并正被建造，且照着你们所受的教导，在信心上得以坚固，洋溢着感谢，就要在祂里面行事为人。
Having been rooted and being built up in Him, and being established in the faith even as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving.
2:8 你们要谨慎，恐怕有人用他的哲学，和虚空的欺骗，照着人的传统，照着世上的蒙学，不照着基督，把你们掳去；
Beware that no one carries you off as spoil through his philosophy and empty deceit, according to the tradition of men, according to the elements of the world,
and not according to Christ;
2:9 因为神格一切的丰满，都有形有体的居住在基督里面，
For in Him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily,
2:10 你们在祂里面也得了丰满。祂是一切执政掌权者的元首；
And you have been made full in Him, who is the Head of all rule and authority.
2:11 你们在祂里面也受了非人手所行的割礼，乃是在基督的割礼里，脱去了肉体的身体，
In Him also you were circumcised with a circumcision not made with hands, in the putting off of the body of the flesh, in the circumcision of Christ,
2:12 在受浸中与祂一同埋葬，也在受浸中，借着那叫祂从死人中复活之神所运行的信心，与祂一同复活。
Buried together with Him in baptism, in which also you were raised together with Him through the faith of the operation of God, who raised Him from the dead.
2:13 你们从前在过犯，和未受割礼的肉体中死了，神赦免了你们一切的过犯，叫你们一同与基督活过来；
And you, though dead in your offenses and in the uncircumcision of your flesh, He made alive together with Him, having forgiven us all our offenses;
2:14 涂抹了规条上所写，攻击我们，反对我们的字据，并且把它撤去，钉在十字架上。
Wiping out the handwriting in ordinances, which was against us, which was contrary to us; and He has taken it out of the way, nailing it to the cross.
2:15 既将执政的和掌权的脱下，神就把他们公然示众，仗着十字架在凯旋中向他们夸胜。
Stripping off the rulers and the authorities, He made a display of them openly, triumphing over them in it.
2:16 所以不拘在饮食上、或在节期、月朔、或安息日方面，都不可让人论断你们，
Let no one therefore judge you in eating and in drinking or in respect of a feast or of a new moon or of the Sabbath,
2:17 这些原是要来之事的影儿，那实体却属于基督。
Which are a shadow of the things to come, but the body is of Christ.
2:18 不可让人凭故意卑微，并敬拜天使，所作反对你们的判断，骗取你们的奖赏；这等人留恋于所见过的，随着自己肉体的心思，徒然自高自大，
Let no one defraud you by judging you unworthy of your prize, in self-chosen lowliness and the worship of the angels, dwelling on the things which he has seen,
vainly puffed up by his mind set on the flesh,
2:19 不持定元首；本于祂，全身借着节和筋，得了丰富的供应，并结合一起，就以神的增长而长大。
And not holding the Head, out from whom all the Body, being richly supplied and knit together by means of the joints and sinews, grows with the growth of God.
2:20 20-21
If you died with Christ from the elements of the world, why, as living in the world, do you subject yourselves to ordinances:
2:21 你们若是与基督同死，脱离了世上的蒙学，为什么仍像在世界中活着，服从那不可拿，不可尝，不可摸等类的规条？
Do not handle, nor taste, nor touch,
2:22 这些都是照着人的吩咐和教导，一经使用，就都败坏了。
(Regarding things which are all to perish when used) according to the commandments and teachings of men?
2:23 这些事在私意敬拜，自表卑微和苦待己身上，确有智慧之名，但在克制肉体的放纵上，却是毫无价值。
Such things indeed have a reputation of wisdom in self-imposed worship and lowliness and severe treatment of the body, but are not of any value against the
indulgence of the flesh.
歌罗西书 Colossians 第 3 章
3:1 所以你们若与基督一同复活，就当寻求在上面的事，那里有基督坐在神的右边。
If therefore you were raised together with Christ, seek the things which are above, where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God.
3:2 你们要思念在上面的事，不要思念在地上的事。
Set your mind on the things which are above, not on the things which are on the earth.
3:3 因为你们已经死了，你们的生命与基督一同藏在神里面。
For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God.
3:4 基督是我们的生命，祂显现的时候，你们也要与祂一同显现在荣耀里。
When Christ our life is manifested, then you also will be manifested with Him in glory.
3:5 所以要治死你们在地上的肢体，就是淫乱、污秽、邪情、恶欲和贪婪，贪婪就是拜偶像，
Put to death therefore your members which are on the earth: fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and greediness, which is idolatry;
3:6 因这些事，神的忿怒正临到那悖逆之子。
Because of which things the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience;
3:7 当你们在这些事中活着的时候，也曾在其间行事为人过。
In which you also once walked, when you lived in these things.
3:8 但现在你们要脱去这一切的事，就是忿怒、恼恨、恶毒、毁谤，并你们口中所出可耻的秽语。
But now, you also, put away all these things: wrath, anger, malice, blasphemy, foul abusive language out of your mouth.
3:9 不要彼此说谎，因你们已经脱去旧人，同旧人的行为，
Do not lie to one another, since you have put off the old man with his practices
3:10 并且穿上了新人；这新人照着创造他者的形像渐渐更新，以致有充足的知识；
And have put on the new man, which is being renewed unto full knowledge according to the image of Him who created him,
3:11 在此并没有希利尼人和犹太人、受割礼的和未受割礼的、化外人、西古提人、为奴的、自主的，惟有基督是一切，又在一切之内。
Where there cannot be Greek and Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free man, but Christ is all and in all.
3:12 所以你们既是神的选民，圣别蒙爱的人，就要穿上怜恤的心肠、恩慈、卑微、温柔、恒忍。
Put on therefore, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, inward parts of compassion, kindness, lowliness, meekness, long-suffering;
3:13 倘若这人与那人有嫌隙，总要彼此容忍，彼此饶恕；主怎样饶恕了你们，你们也要怎样饶恕人。
Bearing one another and forgiving one another, if anyone should have a complaint against anyone; even as the Lord forgave you, so also should you forgive.
3:14 在这一切之上，还要穿上爱，爱是全德的联索。
And over all these things put on love, which is the uniting bond of perfectness.
3:15 又要让基督的平安在你们心里作仲裁，你们在一个身体里蒙召，也是为了这平安；且要感恩。
And let the peace of Christ arbitrate in your hearts, to which also you were called in one Body; and be thankful.
3:16 当用各样的智慧，让基督的话丰丰富富的住在你们里面，用诗章、颂辞、灵歌，彼此教导，互相劝戒，心被恩感歌颂神；
Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in
your hearts to God.
3:17 凡你们所作的，无论是什么，或说话，或行事，都要在主耶稣的名里，借着祂感谢父神。
And whatever you do in word or in deed, do all things in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through Him.
3:18 作妻子的，要服从丈夫，这在主里是相宜的。
Wives, be subject to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord.
3:19 作丈夫的，要爱妻子，不可苦待她们。
Husbands, love your wives and do not be bitter against them.
3:20 作儿女的，要凡事顺从父母，因为这在主里是可喜悦的。
Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing in the Lord.
3:21 作父亲的，不要惹你们儿女的气，免得他们灰心丧志。
Fathers, do not vex your children, that they may not be disheartened.
3:22 作奴仆的，要凡事顺从肉身的主人，不要只在眼前事奉，像是讨人喜欢的，乃要凭心中的单纯敬畏主。
Slaves, obey in all things those who are your masters according to the flesh, not with eye-service as men-pleasers, but in singleness of heart fearing the Lord.
3:23 你们无论作什么，都要从心里作，像是给主作的，不是给人作的，
Whatever you do, work from the soul as to the Lord and not to men,
3:24 知道你们从主那里必得着基业为赏报；你们所事奉的乃是主基督。
Knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as recompense. You serve the Lord Christ.
3:25 那行不义的，必受不义的报应，并没有偏待人的事。
For he who does unrighteously will receive what he unrighteously did, and there is no respect of persons.
歌罗西书 Colossians 第 4 章
4:1 作主人的，要公公平平的对待奴仆，知道你们也有一位主在天上。
Masters, grant to your slaves that which is just and equal, knowing that you also have a Master in heaven.
4:2 你们要坚定持续的祷告，在此儆醒感恩，
Persevere in prayer, watching in it with thanksgiving,
4:3 同时也要为我们祷告，求神给我们开传道的门，能以讲说基督的奥秘，（我也为此被捆锁，）
Praying at the same time for us also, that God would open to us a door for the word, to speak the mystery of Christ (because of which also I am bound),
4:4 叫我按着所当说的，将这奥秘显明出来。
That I may make it manifest as I ought to speak.
4:5 你们对于外人要凭智慧行事，要赎回光阴。
Walk in wisdom toward those who are without, redeeming the time.
4:6 你们的言语总要带着恩典，好像用盐调和，就可知道你们应当怎样回答各人。
Let your speech be always with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how you ought to answer each one.
4:7 一切关于我的事，有亲爱的弟兄，忠信的执事，在主里同作奴仆的推基古，要告诉你们。
All the things concerning me, Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow slave in the Lord, will make known to you,
4:8 我为这事打发他到你们那里去，好叫你们知道关于我们的事，又叫他安慰你们的心；
Whom I have sent to you for this very thing, that you might know the things concerning us and that he might comfort your hearts;
4:9 还有忠信亲爱的弟兄欧尼西母同去，他是你们那里的人。他们要把这里一切的事都告诉你们。
With Onesimus, the faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They will make known to you all the things here.
4:10 与我一同坐监的亚里达古问你们安。巴拿巴的表弟马可也问你们安。（说到这马可，你们已经受了吩咐，他若到了你们那里，你们就接待他。）
Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, greets you, as well as Mark, the cousin of Barnabas, (concerning whom you received commandments, If he comes to you, receive
him),
4:11 那称为犹士都的耶数，也问你们安；奉割礼的人中，只有这些人是为神的国作我的同工，他们也成了我的安慰。
And Jesus, who is called Justus; these alone of the circumcision are my fellow workers for the kingdom of God, ones who have become a consolation to me.
4:12 有你们那里的人，作基督耶稣奴仆的以巴弗问你们安；他在祷告中常为你们竭力奋斗，要你们得以成熟，站立得住，在神一切的旨意上满有确信。
Epaphras, who is one of you, a slave of Christ Jesus, greets you, always struggling on your behalf in his prayers that you may stand mature and fully assured in
all the will of God.
4:13 我可以给他作见证，他为你们和那些在老底嘉，并在希拉波立的人，多多的辛劳。
For I testify of him that he labors much for you and for those in Laodicea and for those in Hierapolis.
4:14 亲爱的医生路加，和底马问你们安。
Luke, the beloved physician, greets you, as well as Demas.
4:15 请问在老底嘉的弟兄和宁法，并他家里的召会安。
Greet the brothers in Laodicea, as well as Nymphas and the church, which is in his house.
4:16 这书信在你们中间念了之后，务要叫在老底嘉的召会也念，你们也要念从老底嘉来的书信。
And when this letter is read among you, cause that it be read in the church of the Laodiceans also, and that you also read the one from Laodicea.
4:17 要告诉亚基布：务要留心你在主里所领受的职事，好尽这职事。
And say to Archippus, Take heed to the ministry which you have received in the Lord, that you fulfill it.
4:18 我保罗亲笔问安。你们要记念我的捆锁。愿恩典与你们同在。
The greeting in my own hand -- Paul. Remember my bonds. Grace be with you.