27. 但以理书 Daniel
但以理书 Daniel 第 1 章
1:1 犹大王约雅敬在位第三年，巴比伦王尼布甲尼撒来到耶路撒冷，将城围困。
In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim the king of Judah Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon came to Jerusalem and besieged it.
1:2 主将犹大王约雅敬，并神殿中的一些器皿交付他手，他就把这些器皿带到示拿地，他神的庙里，带进他神的库中。
And the Lord gave Jehoiakim the king of Judah into his hand with some of the vessels of the house of God; and he brought them into the land of Shinar to the
house of his god, and he brought the vessels into the treasury of his god.
1:3 王吩咐太监长亚施毗拿，从以色列人中，从王室后裔和贵胄中，带进几个人来，
Then the king told Ashpenaz, the chief of his eunuchs, to bring some of the sons of Israel, including some from the royal seed and from the nobility,
1:4 就是年少没有残疾，相貌俊美，通晓各样智慧，知识通达，思想敏捷，足能侍立在王宫里的，要教他们迦勒底人的学问和语言。
Children in whom was no defect, who were good in appearance, who showed insight in all wisdom, understanding in knowledge, and apprehension in thought,
and in whom was the ability to stand in the king's palace. And he told him to teach them the learning and language of the Chaldeans.
1:5 王派定将自己所用的膳和所饮的酒，每日赐他们一分，养他们三年；好叫他们在期满以后可以在王面前侍立。
And the king appointed to them a daily portion from the king's choice provision and from the wine that he drank, and appointed that they should be brought up
for three years so that at the end of the time they might stand before the king.
1:6 他们中间有犹大族的人，但以理、哈拿尼雅、米沙利、亚撒利雅；
Now among these from the sons of Judah were Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah.
1:7 太监长给他们起名，称但以理为伯提沙撒，称哈拿尼雅为沙得拉，称米沙利为米煞，称亚撒利雅为亚伯尼歌。
And the leader of the eunuchs gave them names: he gave Daniel the name Belteshazzar; Hananiah, the name Shadrach; Mishael, the name Meshach; and
Azariah, the name Abed-nego.
1:8 但以理却立定心意，不以王的膳和王所饮的酒玷污自己，所以求太监长容他不玷污自己。
But Daniel set his heart not to defile himself with the king's choice provision and with the wine that the king drank, so he requested of the leader of the eunuchs
that he might not defile himself.
1:9 神使但以理在太监长眼前蒙恩惠，受怜恤；
And God granted Daniel favor and compassion in the sight of the leader of the eunuchs;
1:10 太监长对但以理说，我惧怕我主我王，他已经派定你们的饮食；为何叫他看见你们的面貌，比你们同岁的少年人瘦弱难看呢？这样，你们就使我的头
在王那里难保。
And the leader of the eunuchs said to Daniel, I fear my lord the king, who has appointed your food and drink; for why should he see your faces being more
morose than those of the children who are of your own age? Then you would bring guilt upon my head before the king.
1:11 但以理对太监长所派管理但以理、哈拿尼雅、米沙利、亚撒利雅的委办说，
Then Daniel said to the steward whom the leader of the eunuchs had appointed over Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah,
1:12 求你试试仆人们十天，给我们蔬菜吃，白水喝，
Please test your servants for ten days, and let vegetables be given to us to eat and water to drink.
1:13 然后当面察看我们的面貌，和用王膳那些少年人的面貌；就照你所看的待仆人罢。
Then let our countenances be watched in your presence, as well as the countenances of the children who eat the king's choice provision; and do with your
servants according to what you see.
1:14 委办便允准他们这件事，试看他们十天。
So he listened to them in this matter and tested them for ten days.
1:15 过了十天，见他们的面貌更显俊美，比用王膳的一切少年人更加健壮；
And at the end of ten days their countenances appeared better, and they were more fully fleshed than all the children who ate the king's choice provision.
1:16 于是委办撤去派定他们用的膳、饮的酒，只给他们蔬菜吃。
Therefore the steward withheld their portion of the choice provision and the wine that they were to drink and gave them vegetables.
1:17 这四个少年人，神在各样学问、智慧上，赐给他们知识聪明；但以理又明白各样的异象和梦兆。
Now as for these four children, God gave them knowledge and insight in all learning and wisdom; and Daniel had understanding in all visions and dreams.
1:18 尼布甲尼撒王吩咐带进少年人来的日期到了，太监长就把他们带到王面前。
Then at the end of the days when the king had said that the children should be brought in, the leader of the eunuchs brought them in before Nebuchadnezzar;
1:19 王与他们谈论，见少年人中，无一人能比但以理、哈拿尼雅、米沙利、亚撒利雅；于是他们就在王面前侍立。
And the king spoke with them. And among them all none were found like Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah; therefore they stood in the presence of the
king.
1:20 王考问他们一切智慧、学问的事，见他们比通国的术士和用法术的，胜过十倍。
And in every matter of wisdom and understanding that the king inquired of them, he found them ten times better than all the magicians and conjurers who were
in all his realm.
1:21 直到古列王元年，但以理还在。
And Daniel continued until the first year of Cyrus the king.
但以理书 Daniel 第 2 章
2:1 尼布甲尼撒在位第二年，他作了梦，灵里烦乱，不能睡觉。
And in the second year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchadnezzar dreamed dreams and his spirit was troubled and his sleep left him.
2:2 王吩咐人将术士、用法术的、行邪术的、和迦勒底人召来，要他们将王的梦告诉王；他们就来站在王前。
And the king ordered the call for the magicians, conjurers, sorcerers, and the Chaldeans to declare to the king his dreams; and they came in and stood before
the king.
2:3 王对他们说，我作了一个梦，灵里烦乱，要知道这梦是什么。
837
And the king said to them, I have dreamed a dream, and my spirit is troubled to know the dream.
2:4 迦勒底人用亚兰语对王说，愿王万岁！请将那梦告诉仆人，仆人就可以讲解说明。
Then the Chaldeans spoke to the king in Aramaic, O king, live forever! Tell the dream to your servants, and we will declare the interpretation.
2:5 王回答迦勒底人说，我已发出命令，你们若不将梦和梦的讲解告诉我，就必被凌迟，你们的房屋必成为粪堆；
The king answered and said to the Chaldeans, The command from me is published: If you do not make the dream and its interpretation known to me, you shall
be cut into pieces and your houses shall be made a dunghill.
2:6 你们若将梦和梦的讲解告诉我，就必从我这里得赠品、赏赐、和大尊荣。现在你们要将梦和梦的讲解告诉我。
But if you declare the dream and its interpretation, you shall receive gifts and a reward and much honor from me. Therefore declare the dream and its
interpretation to me.
2:7 他们第二次回答王，说，请王将梦告诉仆人，仆人就可以讲解说明。
They answered a second time and said, Let the king tell his servants the dream, and we will declare the interpretation.
2:8 王回答说，我准知道你们是在拖延时间，因为你们看见我已发出命令；
The king answered and said, I know for certain that you are trying to buy time because you have seen that the command from me is published.
2:9 你们若不将梦告诉我，只有一条法令对待你们，因为你们在我面前协同说虚谎败坏的话，要等候时势改变。所以你们要将梦告诉我，我就知道你们能
将梦的讲解告诉我。
But if you do not make the dream known to me, there is but one decree for you; for you have agreed together to speak false and corrupt words before me until
the time is changed. Therefore tell me the dream, and I will know that you can declare its interpretation to me.
2:10 迦勒底人在王面前回答说，地上没有人能将王所问的事说出来，因为没有大君王或掌权者，向术士、用法术的、或迦勒底人，问过这样的事。
The Chaldeans answered before the king and said, There is not a man upon the earth who can declare the matter for the king, because no great king or ruler
has ever asked any magician, conjurer, or Chaldean for something like this.
2:11 王所问的事甚难，除了不与血肉之人同居的神明，没有人能在王面前说出来。
And the thing that the king asks is rare, and there is no one else who can declare it before the king except the gods, whose dwelling is not with flesh.
2:12 王为此生气，大发烈怒，吩咐灭绝巴比伦所有的哲士。
Because of this the king was angry and very furious, and he gave orders to destroy all the wise men of Babylon.
2:13 于是命令发出，哲士将要被杀；人就寻找但以理和他的同伴，要杀他们。
And the decree went forth that the wise men should be slain; and they sought Daniel and his companions so that they might be slain.
2:14 王的护卫长亚略出来，要杀巴比伦的哲士，但以理就用机智、审慎的话回答他，
Then Daniel responded in counsel and with discretion to Arioch, the captain of the king's bodyguard, who had gone forth to slay the wise men of Babylon.
2:15 向王的军长亚略说，从王发出的命令为何这样严厉呢？亚略就将情节告诉但以理。
He answered and said to Arioch, the king's commander, Why is the decree from before the king so harsh? Then Arioch made the thing known to Daniel.
2:16 但以理遂进去求王宽限，就可以将梦的讲解告诉王。
Daniel then went in and sought from the king that he would give him a time to declare the interpretation to the king.
2:17 但以理回到他的家，将这事告诉他的同伴哈拿尼雅、米沙利、亚撒利雅，
Then Daniel went to his house and made the thing known to Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, his companions,
2:18 要他们为这奥秘的事，在天上的神面前求怜恤，免得但以理和他的同伴，与巴比伦其余的哲士一同灭亡。
That they might request compassions from before the God of the heavens concerning this mystery so that Daniel and his companions would not be destroyed
with the rest of the wise men of Babylon.
2:19 这奥秘的事，就在夜间异象中，启示给但以理。但以理便颂赞天上的神。
Then the mystery was revealed to Daniel in a night vision. Then Daniel blessed the God of the heavens.
2:20 但以理说，从亘古直到永远，神的名是当受颂赞的，因为智慧、能力都属乎祂。
Daniel answered and said, Let the name of God Be blessed from eternity to eternity, For wisdom and might are His.
2:21 祂改变时候和时期；废王、立王，将智慧赐与智慧人，将知识赐与通达人。
And it is He who changes the times and seasons; He deposes kings and causes kings to ascend. He gives wisdom to the wise And knowledge to those who
have understanding.
2:22 祂启示深奥隐秘的事，知道暗中所含的，光也与祂同居。
He reveals the deep things and the hidden things; He knows what is obscured in the darkness, And the light dwells with Him.
2:23 我列祖的神阿，我感谢你，赞美你，因你将智慧、能力赐给了我；如今你已使我知道我们向你所求的，把王的事指示我们。
To You, O God of my fathers, I render thanks and praise, For You have given me wisdom and might; And You have now made known to me what we requested
of You, For You have made known the king's matter to us.
2:24 于是但以理进去见亚略，就是王所派灭绝巴比伦哲士的，对他说，不要灭绝巴比伦的哲士，求你领我到王面前，我要将梦的讲解告诉王。
Therefore Daniel went in unto Arioch, whom the king had appointed to destroy the wise men of Babylon; he went and said thus to him, Do not destroy the wise
men of Babylon; bring me before the king, and I will declare the interpretation to the king.
2:25 亚略就急忙将但以理领到王面前，对王说，我在被掳的犹大人中遇见一人，他要将梦的讲解告诉王。
Then Arioch brought Daniel hurriedly before the king and spoke in this way to him, I have found a man among the captives of Judah who will make the
interpretation known to the king.
2:26 王对称为伯提沙撒的但以理说，你能将我所作的梦和梦的讲解，告诉我么？
The king answered and said to Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, Are you able to make known to me the dream that I have seen and its interpretation?
2:27 但以理在王面前回答说，王所问的那奥秘事，哲士、用法术的、术士、观兆的，都不能告诉王；
Daniel answered before the king and said, As to the mystery which the king has inquired about, no wise men, no conjurers, magicians, or diviners, are able to
declare it to the king.
2:28 只有一位在天上的神，能启示奥秘的事，祂已将末后日子必发生的事，指示尼布甲尼撒王。你的梦，就是你在床上脑中的异象，乃是这样。
But there is a God in the heavens who reveals mysteries, and He has made known to King Nebuchadnezzar what will happen in the last days. This is your dream,
even the visions of your head upon your bed.
2:29 王阿，你在床上想到后来要发生的事，那启示奥秘事的主，就把将来必发生的事指示你。
As for you, O king, your thoughts on your bed came upon what would happen after these times, and He who reveals mysteries has made known to you what will
happen.
838
2:30 至于我，这奥秘的事启示给我，并非因我的智慧胜过一切活人，乃为使王知道梦的讲解，并使王知道心里的思念。
But as for me, this mystery has not been revealed to me because of some wisdom that is in me more than in any other living person, but so that the interpretation
may be made known to the king and that you may understand the thoughts of your heart.
2:31 王阿，你观看，看见一个大像。这像巨大，极其光耀，站在你面前，样子甚是可怕。
You, O king, were watching, and there was a single great image. This image, large and its brightness surpassing, stood opposite you; and its appearance was
frightful.
2:32 这像的头是精金的，胸膛和膀臂是银的，肚腹和腰是铜的，
Concerning this image, its head was of fine gold, its breast and its arms of silver, its abdomen and its thighs of bronze,
2:33 腿是铁的，脚是半铁半泥的。
Its legs of iron, its feet partly of iron and partly of clay.
2:34 你观看，见有一块非人手凿出来的石头，打在这像半铁半泥的脚上，把脚砸碎。
You were watching until a stone was cut out without hands, and it struck the image at its feet of iron and clay and crushed them.
2:35 于是铁、泥、铜、银、金，都一同砸得粉碎，成如夏天禾场上的糠秕，被风吹散，无处可寻。打碎这像的石头，变成一座大山，充满全地。
Then the iron, the clay, the bronze, the silver, and the gold were crushed all at once, and they became like chaff from the summer threshing floors; and the wind
carried them away so that no trace of them was found. And the stone that struck the image became a great mountain and filled the whole earth.
2:36 这就是那梦；我们在王面前要讲解那梦。
This is the dream; and we will tell its interpretation before the king.
2:37 王阿，你是诸王之王，天上的神已将国度、权能、力量、荣耀，都赐给了你；
You, O king, are king of kings, to whom the God of the heavens has given kingship, power, and strength and glory.
2:38 无论住在何处的世人、田野的走兽、并天空的飞鸟，祂都已交付你手，使你掌管这一切。你就是那金头。
And wherever the children of men, the beasts of the field, or the birds of the sky dwell, He has given them into your hand and has made you ruler over all of them.
You are the head of gold.
2:39 在你以后必另有一国兴起，不及于你；又有第三国，就是铜的，必掌管全地。
And after you another kingdom will arise, inferior to you; and there will be another kingdom, a third one, of bronze, which will rule over all the earth.
2:40 必有第四国，坚强如铁，像铁一样能打碎克制百物；铁怎样能压碎一切，那国也必照样打碎压制列国。
And there will be a fourth kingdom as strong as iron, inasmuch as iron crushes and shatters everything; and like iron that smashes all these, it will crush and
smash.
2:41 你既看见那像的脚和脚指头，一半是窑匠的泥，一半是铁，那国将来也必是混杂的；你既看见铁与陶泥搀杂，那国也必有铁的坚硬；
And in that you saw the feet and the toes, partly of potter's clay and partly of iron, the kingdom will be a confused mass; but there will be some of the firmness of
iron in it, for you saw the iron mixed with the earthy clay.
2:42 那些脚指头，既是半铁半泥，那国也必半强半弱；
And as the toes of the feet were partly of iron and partly of clay, so some of the kingdom will be strong and part of it will be fragile.
2:43 你既看见铁与陶泥搀杂，那国的民也必人种搀杂，却不能彼此相合，正如铁与泥不能搀合一样。
And in that you saw the iron mixed with the earthy clay, they will be mixed together through the seed of men, but they will not cleave to one another, even as iron
does not mix with clay.
2:44 当那列王在位的日子，天上的神必兴起一国，永不败灭，国权也不留归别民，却要打碎灭绝那一切国；这国必存到永远。
And in the days of those kings the God of the heavens will raise up a kingdom which will never be destroyed, and its reign will not be left to another people; it will
crush and put an end to all these kingdoms; and it will stand forever.
2:45 你既看见非人手凿出来的一块石头，从山而出，打碎铁、铜、泥、银、金，那就是至大的神把后来必发生的事给王指明。这梦准是这样，这讲解也是
可信的。
Inasmuch as you saw that out of the mountain a stone was cut without hands and that it crushed the iron, the bronze, the clay, the silver, and the gold, the great
God has made known to the king what will happen afterward; and the dream is certain, and its interpretation trustworthy.
2:46 当时尼布甲尼撒王面伏于地，向但以理下拜，并且吩咐人给他奉上供物和香。
Then King Nebuchadnezzar fell on his face and worshipped Daniel and commanded that they offer an oblation and incense to him.
2:47 王对但以理说，你既能将这奥秘的事启示出来，你们的神诚然是万神之神，万王之主，又是奥秘事的启示者。
The king answered Daniel and said, It is certain that your God is the God of gods and the Lord of kings and a Revealer of mysteries, for you have been able to
reveal this mystery.
2:48 于是王使但以理尊大，赏赐他许多贵重礼物，派他管理巴比伦全省，又立他为总长，掌管巴比伦的一切哲士。
Then the king made Daniel great and gave many great gifts to him; and he made him ruler over the whole province of Babylon and chief of the prefects over all
the wise men of Babylon.
2:49 但以理求王，王就派沙得拉、米煞、亚伯尼歌管理巴比伦省的事务；只是但以理常在王的朝廷中。
And Daniel requested of the king, and he appointed Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego over the administration of the province of Babylon; but Daniel was at
the king's court.
但以理书 Daniel 第 3 章
3:1 尼布甲尼撒王造了一个金像，高六十肘，宽六肘，立在巴比伦省的杜拉平原。
Nebuchadnezzar the king made an image of gold, its height sixty cubits and its width six cubits; he set it up in the plain of Dura in the province of Babylon.
3:2 尼布甲尼撒王差人将总督、司令、省长、审判长、财政官员、司法官员、审判官、和各省的官员，都招聚来，为尼布甲尼撒王所立的像，行开光之礼。
Then Nebuchadnezzar the king sent word to assemble the satraps, the prefects and the governors, the chief judges, the treasury officials, the law officials, the
judges, and all the rulers of the provinces to come to the dedication of the image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up.
3:3 于是总督、司令、省长、审判长、财政官员、司法官员、审判官、和各省的官员，都聚集了来，要为尼布甲尼撒王所立的像，行开光之礼，就站在尼
布甲尼撒所立的像前。
Then the satraps, the prefects and the governors, the chief judges, the treasury officials, the law officials, the judges, and all the rulers of the provinces assembled
themselves for the dedication of the image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up; and they stood before the image that Nebuchadnezzar had set up.
839
3:4 那时传令的，大声呼叫说，各族、各国、各方言的人哪，有令传与你们。
Then a herald proclaimed loudly, To you it is commanded, O peoples, nations, and languages,
3:5 你们一听见角、笛、七弦琴、三角琴、瑟、风笛、和各样乐器的声音，就当俯伏敬拜尼布甲尼撒王所立的金像；
At the time that you hear the sound of the horn, flute, lyre, trigon, psaltery, bagpipe, and all kinds of music, you shall fall down and worship the golden image that
Nebuchadnezzar the king has set up;
3:6 凡不俯伏敬拜的，必立时扔在烈火的窑中。
And whoever does not fall down and worship shall be thrown into the midst of a blazing furnace of fire in that very hour.
3:7 因此各族、各国、各方言的人，一听见角、笛、七弦琴、三角琴、瑟、风笛、和各样乐器的声音，就都俯伏敬拜尼布甲尼撒王所立的金像。
Therefore at that time, when all the peoples heard the sound of the horn, flute, lyre, trigon, psaltery, bagpipe, and all kinds of music, all the peoples, nations, and
languages fell down and worshipped the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up.
3:8 那时有几个迦勒底人，为此进前来控告犹大人。
Because of this at that time certain Chaldeans drew near and accused the Jews.
3:9 他们对尼布甲尼撒王说，愿王万岁！
They responded and said to Nebuchadnezzar the king, O king, live forever!
3:10 王阿，你曾降旨说，凡听见角、笛、七弦琴、三角琴、瑟、风笛、和各样乐器声音的人，都当俯伏敬拜金像；
You, O king, have made a decree that every man who hears the sound of the horn, flute, lyre, trigon, psaltery, bagpipe, and all kinds of music shall fall down and
worship the golden image;
3:11 凡不俯伏敬拜的，必扔在烈火的窑中。
And whoever does not fall down and worship shall be thrown into the midst of a blazing furnace of fire.
3:12 现在有几个犹大人，就是王所派管理巴比伦省事务的沙得拉、米煞、亚伯尼歌，王阿，这些人不尊重你，不事奉你的神，也不敬拜你所立的金像。
There are certain Jews, whom you have appointed over the administration of the province of Babylon-Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego-these men have not
respected you, O king; they do not serve your gods nor worship the golden image that you have set up.
3:13 当时尼布甲尼撒大发烈怒，吩咐人把沙得拉、米煞、亚伯尼歌带过来；他们就把那些人带到王面前。
Then Nebuchadnezzar in rage and fury commanded men to bring Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego; then they brought these men before the king.
3:14 尼布甲尼撒问他们说，沙得拉、米煞、亚伯尼歌，你们不事奉我的神，也不敬拜我所立的金像，是故意的么？
Nebuchadnezzar responded and said to them, Do you, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, purposely not serve my gods nor worship the golden image that I
have set up?
3:15 如今你们一听见角、笛、七弦琴、三角琴、瑟、风笛、和各样乐器的声音，若立既俯伏敬拜我所造的像，却还可以；若不敬拜，必立时扔在烈火的窑
中，谁是那能救你们脱离我手的神呢？
Now then, if, at the time when you hear the sound of the horn, flute, lyre, trigon, psaltery, bagpipe, and all kinds of music, you are ready to fall down and worship
the image that I have made, very well; but if you do not worship, you will be thrown into the midst of a blazing furnace of fire in that very hour; and who is that
god who will deliver you out of my hands?
3:16 沙得拉、米煞、亚伯尼歌回答王说，尼布甲尼撒阿，这件事我们不必回答你。
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego answered and said to the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, there is no need for us to give you an answer in this matter.
3:17 既便如此，我们所事奉的神，也能将我们从烈火的窑中救出来；王阿，祂必救我们脱离你的手。
If it be so, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the blazing furnace of fire, and He will deliver us out of your hand, O king.
3:18 既或不然，王阿，你当知道，我们决不事奉你的神，也不敬拜你所立的金像。
But if He does not, let it be known to you, O king, that we will not serve your gods nor worship the golden image that you have set up.
3:19 当时尼布甲尼撒怒气填胸，向沙得拉、米煞、亚伯尼歌变了脸色，吩咐人把窑烧热，比平常更热七倍。
Then Nebuchadnezzar was filled with fury and the countenance of his face was changed toward Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego. He responded and
commanded that the furnace be made seven times hotter than it was usually heated.
3:20 又吩咐他军中的几个壮士，将沙得拉、米煞、亚伯尼歌捆起来，扔在烈火的窑中。
And he commanded certain mighty men who were in his army to bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, and throw them into the blazing furnace of fire.
3:21 当时这三个人是穿着衬衣、内袍、外衣、和别的衣服，被捆起来扔在烈火的窑中。
Then these men were bound in their shirts, tunics, and mantles, and other clothing, and thrown into the midst of the blazing furnace of fire.
3:22 因为王命严厉，窑又烧得极热，那抬沙得拉、米煞、亚伯尼歌的人，都被火焰烧死。
For this reason, because the king's word was so harsh and the furnace had been heated to an extreme, the flame of the fire slew those men who carried up
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego.
3:23 沙得拉、米煞、亚伯尼歌这三个人，都被捆着落在烈火的窑中。
And these three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, fell into the midst of the blazing furnace of fire bound up.
3:24 那时尼布甲尼撒王惊奇，急忙起来，对谋士说，我们岂不是把三个人捆起来扔在火里么？他们回答王说，王阿，确实是的。
Then Nebuchadnezzar the king was astonished and stood up in haste; he responded and said to his counselors, Did we not throw three men into the midst of
the fire bound up? They answered and said to the king, Certainly, O king.
3:25 王说，看哪，我见有四个人，并没有捆绑，在火中行走，也没有受伤；那第四个的相貌，好像神子。
He answered and said, Look, I see four men loose, walking in the midst of the fire; and they are not harmed. And the appearance of the fourth is like a son of the
gods.
3:26 于是尼布甲尼撒就近烈火窑门，说，至高神的仆人沙得拉、米煞、亚伯尼歌出来，到这里来罢。沙得拉、米煞、亚伯尼歌就从火中出来了。
Then Nebuchadnezzar came near to the door of the blazing furnace of fire. He responded and said, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, servants of God the
Most High, come out and come here. Then Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego came out of the midst of the fire.
3:27 那些总督、司令、省长、和王的谋士，一同聚集看这三个人，见火无力伤及他们的身体，他们的头发没有烧焦，衣裳没有变色，身上也没有火燎的气
味。
And the satraps, prefects, and governors, and the king's counselors, being gathered together, saw concerning these men that the fire had no effect on their
bodies and that the hair of their heads was not singed, nor had their clothes been affected, nor had the smell of fire come upon them.
3:28 尼布甲尼撒说，沙得拉、米煞、亚伯尼歌的神是当受颂赞的，祂差遣使者救护祂的仆人，他们信靠祂，不遵王言，宁舍己身，在他们神以外不肯事奉
敬拜别神；
840
Nebuchadnezzar responded and said, Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, who has sent His angel and delivered His servants who
trusted in Him and changed the king's word and yielded their bodies that they might not serve nor worship any god except their own God.
3:29 现在我降旨，无论何族、何国、何方言的人，谤讟沙得拉、米煞、亚伯尼歌之神的，必被凌迟，他的房屋必成粪堆，因为没有别神能这样施行拯救。
Therefore I make a decree that any people, nation, or language that speaks something offensive against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego shall
be cut into pieces and their houses shall be made a dunghill, because there is no other god who is able to deliver in this way.
3:30 那时王使沙得拉、米煞、亚伯尼歌在巴比伦省得亨通。
Then the king caused Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego to prosper in the province of Babylon.
但以理书 Daniel 第 4 章
4:1 尼布甲尼撒王晓谕住在全地各族、各国、各方言的人，说，愿你们大享平安。
Nebuchadnezzar the king to all the peoples, nations, and languages that dwell in the whole earth: May your peace abound!
4:2 我乐意将至高的神向我所行的神迹奇事，宣扬出来。
It pleases me to declare the signs and wonders that God the Most High has done for me.
4:3 祂的神迹何其伟大，祂的奇事何其有能！祂的国是永远的国，祂的权柄存到万代。
How great are His signs, And how mighty are His wonders! His kingdom is an eternal kingdom, And His dominion is from generation to generation.
4:4 我尼布甲尼撒在宫中处安逸，在殿内享昌隆。
I, Nebuchadnezzar, was at ease in my house and was flourishing in my palace.
4:5 我作了一个梦使我惧怕，我在床上的思念并脑中的异象使我惊惶；
I saw a dream and it frightened me, and the imaginings upon my bed and the visions of my head alarmed me.
4:6 所以我降旨召巴比伦的一切哲士到我面前，叫他们把梦的讲解告诉我。
Therefore I made the decree to bring before me all the wise men of Babylon that they might make the interpretation of the dream known to me.
4:7 于是那些术士、用法术的、迦勒底人、观兆的都进来，我将那梦告诉了他们，他们却不能把梦的讲解告诉我。
Then the magicians, conjurers, Chaldeans, and diviners came in, and I told the dream to them; but they could not make its interpretation known to me.
4:8 末后那照我神的名称为伯提沙撒，里头有圣神明之灵的但以理，来到我面前；我将梦告诉他，说，
But at last there came in before me Daniel, whose name is Belteshazzar, according to the name of my god, and in whom is a spirit of the holy gods; and I told the
dream to him, saying,
4:9 术士的领袖伯提沙撒阿，因我知道你里头有圣神明的灵，没有什么奥秘的事能使你为难；这是我梦中所见的异象，你要把讲解告诉我。
O Belteshazzar, chief of the magicians, because I know that a spirit of the holy gods is in you and no mystery troubles you, here are the visions of my dream that I
have seen; now tell me its interpretation.
4:10 我在床上脑中的异象是这样：我观看，见地当中有一棵树，极其高大。
Now these were the visions of my head upon my bed: I was watching and there was a tree in the midst of the earth, and its height was great.
4:11 那树渐渐长大，而且坚固，高达于天，从地极都能看见。
The tree grew great and became strong, And its height reached to heaven, And the sight of it to the end of all the earth.
4:12 树的叶子华美，果子甚多，可作众生的食物。野地的走兽卧在荫下，天空的飞鸟宿在枝上，凡有血肉的，都从这树得食。
Its foliage was beautiful and its fruit abundant, And in it was food for all. The beasts of the field found shade under it, And the birds of the sky dwelt in its
branches; And all flesh fed from it.
4:13 我在床上脑中的异象里，正观看时，见有一位守望者，就是圣者，从天而降。
I was watching in the visions of my head upon my bed, and there was a watcher, indeed, a holy one, coming down from heaven.
4:14 他大声呼叫说，伐倒这树，砍下枝子，摇掉叶子，抛散果子，使走兽逃开树下，飞鸟逃离树枝。
He cried out loudly and spoke in this way, Cut down the tree and cut off its branches; Strip off its foliage and scatter its fruit; Let the beasts flee from under it, And
the birds from its branches.
4:15 树根的不却要留在地内，用铁圈和铜圈箍住，在野地的青草中；让他被天露沾湿，且与走兽同分，吃地上的草；
Yet leave its stump of roots In the earth, But with an iron and bronze band around it, In the tender grass of the field; And let him be wet with the dew of heaven,
And let his portion be with the beasts in the grass of the earth;
4:16 使他的心变得不是人心，给他一个兽心，使他经过七个时期。
Let his mind be changed from that of a man's, And let a beast's mind be given to him; And let seven periods of time pass over him.
4:17 这乃是众守望者的命令，这决定乃是众圣者的吩咐，好叫活人知道，至高者才是人国的掌权者，要将国赐与谁，就赐与谁；祂立极卑微的人掌权。
This matter is by the decree of the watchers, and the decision is a command of the holy ones, to the intent that the living may know that the Most High is the Ruler
over the kingdom of men and gives it to whomever He wills and sets up over it the lowliest of men.
4:18 这是我尼布甲尼撒王所作的梦，伯提沙撒阿，你要说出这梦的讲解，因为我国中的一切哲士，都不能将梦的讲解告诉我；惟独你能，因你里头有圣神
明的灵。
This dream I, King Nebuchadnezzar, have seen. Now you, Belteshazzar, tell me the interpretation, inasmuch as all the wise men of my kingdom are not able to
make the interpretation known to me; but you are able, for a spirit of the holy gods is in you.
4:19 那时，称为伯提沙撒的但以理，惊讶片刻，心意惊惶。王说，伯提沙撒阿，不要因梦和梦的讲解惊惶。伯提沙撒回答说，我主阿，愿这梦归与恨你的
人，讲解归与你的敌人！
Then Daniel, whose name is Belteshazzar, was appalled for a while as his thoughts alarmed him. The king responded and said, Belteshazzar, do not let the
dream or its interpretation alarm you. Belteshazzar answered and said, My lord, may the dream be for those who hate you, and its interpretation for your
enemies!
4:20 你所见的树渐渐长大，而且坚固，高达于天，从地极都能看见；
The tree that you saw, which grew great and became strong, and whose height reached to heaven and the sight of it to all the earth,
4:21 树的叶子华美，果子甚多，可作众生的食物，野地的走兽住在其下，天空的飞鸟宿在枝上；
And whose foliage was beautiful and its fruit abundant, and in which was food for all, and under which the beasts of the field dwelt, and in whose branches the
birds of the sky lodged -
4:22 王阿，这长大又坚固的树就是你，因为你的威势渐长及天，你的权柄达到地极。
841
It is you, O king, who have grown great and become strong, for your greatness has grown and reaches to heaven, and your dominion to the end of the earth.
4:23 王既看见一位守望者，就是圣者从天而降，说，将这树砍伐毁坏，树根的不却要留在地内，用铁圈和铜圈箍住，在野地的青草中；让他被天露沾湿，
且与走兽同分，直到经过七个时期。
And in that the king saw a watcher, indeed, a holy one, coming down from heaven and saying, Cut down the tree and destroy it; yet leave its stump of roots in
the earth, but with an iron and bronze band around it, in the tender grass of the field; and let him be wet with the dew of heaven, and let his portion be with the
beasts of the field until seven periods of time pass over him;
4:24 王阿，这就是讲解；临到我主我王的事，乃是至高者的命令：
This is the interpretation, O king, and this is the decree of the Most High, which has come upon my lord the king:
4:25 你必被赶出离开人类，与野地的兽同住；你必吃草如牛，被天露沾湿，且要经过七个时期，等你知道至高者才是人国的掌权者，要将国赐与谁，就赐
与谁。
You shall be driven out from among mankind, and with the beasts of the field shall your dwelling place be; and you shall be made to eat grass as bulls do and
shall be wet with the dew of heaven; and seven periods of time will pass over you, until you come to know that the Most High is the Ruler over the kingdom of
men and gives it to whomever He wills.
4:26 守望者既吩咐存留树根的不，等你知道诸天掌权，以后你的国必定归你。
And in that it was commanded that the stump of roots of the tree be left, your kingdom will be assured to you after you have come to know that the heavens do
rule.
4:27 所以王阿，求你悦纳我的谏言：以行义断绝罪过，以怜悯穷人除掉罪孽，或者你的荣华可以延长。
Therefore, O king, let my counsel be acceptable to you: Break off your sins by doing righteousness, and your iniquities by showing mercy to the poor; perhaps
there may be a prolonging of your prosperity.
4:28 这一切都临到尼布甲尼撒王。
All this came upon Nebuchadnezzar the king.
4:29 过了十二个月，他在巴比伦王宫顶上行走。
At the end of twelve months he was walking upon the roof of the royal palace of Babylon.
4:30 他说，这大巴比伦不是我用自己权能的力量建为王家，要显我威严的荣耀么？
The king responded and said, Is this not Babylon the great, which I have built up as a royal house by the might of my power and for the glory of my majesty?
4:31 这话在王口中尚未说完，有声音从天降下，说，尼布甲尼撒王阿，有话对你说，你的国位离开你了；
While the word was still in the king's mouth, a voice came down from heaven: To you it is spoken, King Nebuchadnezzar: The kingdom has passed on from you;
4:32 你必被赶出离开人类，与野地的兽同住；你必吃草如牛，且要经过七个时期，等你知道至高者才是人国的掌权者，要将国赐与谁，就赐与谁。
And from among mankind you shall be driven out, and with the beasts of the field shall your dwelling place be; you shall be made to eat grass as bulls do; and
seven periods of time will pass over you, until you come to know that the Most High is the Ruler over the kingdom of men and gives it to whomever He wills.
4:33 当时这话就应验在尼布甲尼撒的身上，他被赶出离开人类，吃草如牛，身被天露沾湿，直到头发长长好像鹰毛，指甲长长如同鸟爪。
In that very hour the word concerning Nebuchadnezzar was fulfilled; and from among mankind he was driven out, and he began to eat grass as bulls do, and
his body was wet with the dew of heaven, until his hair had grown like eagles' feathers and his nails like birds' claws.
4:34 那些日子过后，我尼布甲尼撒举目望天，我的理性复归于我，我便颂赞至高者，赞美尊敬那永活者；因为祂的权柄是永远的权柄，祂的国存到万代。
And at the end of those days I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted up my eyes to heaven, and reason returned to me; and I blessed the Most High, and I praised and
honored the ever-living One; For His dominion is an eternal dominion, And His kingdom is from generation to generation;
4:35 地上所有的居民，都算为虚无；但在天上的万军和地上的居民中，祂照自己的意旨行事；无人能拦住祂的手，或对祂说，你作什么呢？
And all the inhabitants of earth are considered as nothing, But He does according to His will in the army of heaven And among the inhabitants of the earth; And
there is no one who can resist His hand Or say to Him, What are You doing?
4:36 那时，我的理性复归于我；为了我国的荣耀，威严和光耀也都复归于我；我的谋士和大臣也来求见我，我又得坚立在国位上，超越的尊大加增于我。
At that time reason returned to me; and for the glory of my kingdom, my majesty and splendor returned to me; and my counselors and my lords sought me out,
and I was established in my kingdom, and surpassing greatness was added to me.
4:37 现在我尼布甲尼撒赞美、高举、尊敬天上的王，因为祂一切的作为全是真的，祂的道路是公平的，因为祂能使那行动骄傲的降为卑。
Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and exalt and honor the King of the heavens, because all His works are truth and His ways justice, and because He is able to
abase those who walk in pride.
但以理书 Daniel 第 5 章
5:1 伯沙撒王为他的一千大臣设摆盛筵，与这一千人对面饮酒。
Belshazzar the king made a great feast for a thousand of his lords; and he drank wine before the thousand.
5:2 伯沙撒饮酒欢畅时，吩咐人将他先祖尼布甲尼撒从耶路撒冷殿中所掠的金银器皿拿来，王与大臣、皇后、妃嫔好用这些器皿饮酒。
Belshazzar, under the influence of the wine, commanded men to bring the gold and silver vessels that Nebuchadnezzar his forefather had taken out of the
temple which was in Jerusalem, that the king and his lords, his wives, and his concubines might drink from them.
5:3 于是他们把耶路撒冷殿中，就是神家中所掠的金器皿拿来，王和大臣、皇后、妃嫔就用这些器皿饮酒。
Then they brought the golden vessels that had been taken out of the temple of the house of God, which was in Jerusalem; and the king and his lords, his wives,
and his concubines drank from them.
5:4 他们饮酒，赞美那用金、银、铜、铁、木、石所造的神。
They drank wine and praised the gods of gold and of silver, of bronze, iron, wood, and stone.
5:5 当时有人手的指头显出来，在王宫里灯台对面的粉墙上写字；王看见写字的手指头，
At that moment the fingers of a man's hand came forth and wrote opposite the lampstand upon the plaster of the wall of the king's palace. And the king saw that
part of the hand that wrote.
5:6 就变了脸色，心意惊惶，腰骨好像脱节，双膝彼此相碰。
Then the king's countenance changed and his thoughts alarmed him; and the joints of his hips loosened and his knees began to knock together.
5:7 王大声吩咐将用法术的、迦勒底人、并观兆的领进来；王对巴比伦的哲士说，什么人能读这文字，把讲解告诉我，他必身穿紫袍，项戴金链，在我国
中掌权，位列第三。
842
The king cried loudly to bring the conjurers, the Chaldeans, and the diviners. The king responded and said to the wise men of Babylon, Any man who reads this
writing and declares its interpretation to me shall be clothed in purple and shall have a chain of gold around his neck and shall rule as the third ruler in the
kingdom.
5:8 于是王的一切哲士都进来，却不能读那文字，也不能把讲解告诉王。
Then all the king's wise men came, but they could not read the writing nor make its interpretation known to the king.
5:9 伯沙撒王就极其惊惶，脸色更为改变，他的大臣也都惊奇。
Then King Belshazzar was greatly alarmed; his countenance was further changed, and his lords were perplexed.
5:10 太后因王和他大臣所说的话，就进入宴宫，说，愿王万岁！你的心意不要惊惶，脸色不要改变。
The queen mother, because of the words of the king and his lords, came to the banquet house. The queen mother responded and said, O king, live forever! Do
not let your thoughts alarm you, nor let your countenance change.
5:11 在你国中有一个人，他里头有圣神明的灵，你先祖在世的日子，见这人里头有光，又有聪明智慧，好像神明的智慧；你先祖尼布甲尼撒王，就是王的
先祖，立他为术士、用法术的、迦勒底人、并观兆者的领袖；
There is a man in your kingdom in whom is a spirit of the holy gods; and in the days of your forefather light and insight and wisdom like the wisdom of the gods
were found in him. And King Nebuchadnezzar your forefather-your forefather, O king-made him chief of the magicians, conjurers, Chaldeans, and diviners,
5:12 因为在他里头有美好的灵，又有知识聪明，能圆梦，释谜语，解难题，这人名叫但以理，尼布甲尼撒王称他为伯提沙撒；现在可以把但以理召来，他
必讲解说明。
Because an excellent spirit and knowledge and insight, and the interpretation of dreams, the declaring of riddles, and the resolving of problems were found in
this Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar. Let Daniel now be called, and he will declare the interpretation.
5:13 于是但以理被领到王前；王问但以理说，你是被掳之犹大人中的但以理么？就是我的先祖王从犹大带来的么？
Then Daniel was brought before the king. The king responded and said to Daniel, Are you Daniel, one of the captives of Judah, whom my forefather the king
brought from Judah?
5:14 我听说你里头有神明的灵，并且有光，又有聪明和超越的智慧。
Now I have heard about you that a spirit of the gods is in you and that light and insight and surpassing wisdom are found in you.
5:15 现在哲士和用法术的，都被领到我面前，为叫他们读这文字，把讲解告诉我，但他们都不能讲解说明。
And now the wise men, the conjurers, have been brought in before me that they might read this writing and make its interpretation known to me, but they cannot
declare the interpretation of the thing.
5:16 我听说你善于讲解，能解难题；现在你若能读这文字，把讲解告诉我，就必身穿紫袍，项戴金链，在我国中掌权，位列第三。
But I have heard about you that you can give interpretations and resolve problems. If you can now read the writing and make its interpretation known to me, you
shall be clothed in purple and shall have a chain of gold around your neck and shall rule as the third ruler in the kingdom.
5:17 但以理在王面前回答说，你的赠品可以归你自己；你的赏赐可以赐给别人；我却要为王读这文字，把讲解告诉王。
Then Daniel answered and said before the king, Let your gifts remain with you, or give your rewards to another; nevertheless I will read the writing for the king
and make the interpretation known to him.
5:18 王阿，至高的神曾将国度、尊大、荣耀、威严，赐与你的先祖尼布甲尼撒。
Regarding you, O king, God the Most High gave to Nebuchadnezzar your forefather kingship, greatness, glory, and majesty;
5:19 因神所赐他的尊大，各族、各国、各方言的人，都在他面前战兢恐惧，他可以随意生杀，随意升降。
And because of the greatness which He gave to him, all peoples, nations, and languages trembled and feared before him; whomever he wished he slew, and
whomever he wished he kept alive, and whomever he wished he raised up, and whomever he wished he brought down.
5:20 但他的心高傲，灵也刚愎，甚至行事狂傲，就被革去王位，夺去荣耀。
But when his heart was lifted up and his spirit became so arrogant that he conducted himself in pride, he was deposed from his royal throne, and his glory was
taken away from him.
5:21 他被赶出离开世人，他的心变如兽心，与野驴同住；他吃草如牛，身被天露沾湿，等他知道至高的神才是人国的掌权者，随自己的意旨立人治国。
And he was driven from the sons of men, and his heart was made like that of the beasts, and his dwelling place was with the wild donkeys; men fed him with
grass as they do bulls, and his body was wet with the dew of heaven, until he came to know that God the Most High is the Ruler over the kingdom of men and
sets over it whomever He wills.
5:22 伯沙撒阿，你是他的子孙，你虽知道这一切，你的心仍不谦卑，
And you his descendant, Belshazzar, have not humbled your heart, though you knew all this;
5:23 竟向天上的主自高，使人将祂殿中的器皿拿到你面前，你和大臣、皇后、妃嫔用这些器皿饮酒；你又赞美那不能看、不能听，无知无识，用金、银、
铜、铁、木、石所造的神；却没有将尊荣归与那手中有你气息，管理你一切道路的神；
But you have exalted yourself against the Lord of the heavens; and they have brought the vessels of His house before you, and you and your lords, your wives,
and your concubines have drunk wine from them; and you have praised the gods of silver and of gold, of bronze, iron, wood, and stone, which do not see nor
hear nor know. But the God in whose hand is your breath and to whom all your ways belong, you have not honored.
5:24 因此从神面前差出手指头来，写这文字。
Then that part of the hand was sent from before Him, and this writing was inscribed.
5:25 所写的文字是：弥尼，弥尼，提客勒，乌法珥新。
And this is the writing that was inscribed: MENE, MENE, TEKEL, UPHARSIN.
5:26 这话的讲解是这样。弥尼，就是神已经数算你国的年日，使其终止；
This is the interpretation of the matter: MENE-God has numbered your kingdom and brought it to an end;
5:27 提客勒，就是你被称在天平里，显出你的亏欠；
TEKEL-You have been weighed in the scales and found to be lacking.
5:28 毗勒斯，就是你的国分裂，归与玛代人和波斯人。
PERES-Your kingdom has been divided and given to the Medes and Persians.
5:29 伯沙撒下令，人就把紫袍给但以理穿上，把金链给他戴在颈项上，又传令使他在国中掌权，位列第三。
Then Belshazzar commanded; and they clothed Daniel in purple and put a chain of gold around his neck, and they made the proclamation concerning him that
he should rule as the third ruler in the kingdom.
5:30 当夜迦勒底王伯沙撒被杀；
In that very night Belshazzar the Chaldean king was slain.
843
5:31 玛代人大利乌，约六十二岁，取了迦勒底国。
And Darius the Mede received the kingdom at about the age of sixty-two.
但以理书 Daniel 第 6 章
6:1 大利乌随心所愿，在全国立了一百二十个总督，治理通国；
It pleased Darius to set up over the kingdom a hundred and twenty satraps, who would be throughout the whole kingdom;
6:2 又在他们以上立总长三人，(但以理为其中之一，)使这些总督向他们三人呈报，免得王受亏损。
And over them, three chief ministers-of whom Daniel was one-so that these satraps might give account to them and the king might not suffer loss.
6:3 因这但以理有美好的灵，所以显然超乎其余的总长和总督，王又想立他治理通国。
Then this Daniel distinguished himself among the chief ministers and satraps because in him there was an excellent spirit, and the king considered setting him
over the whole kingdom.
6:4 那时总长和总督，在国事上寻找但以理的把柄，为要告他，只是找不着他的把柄和过失；因他忠信可靠，在他身上找不到任何疏忽和过失。
Then the chief ministers and satraps sought to find a ground for accusation against Daniel from the perspective of the kingdom, but they could find no ground for
accusation or fault, inasmuch as he was faithful, and no negligence or fault was found related to him.
6:5 那些人便说，我们要找控告这但以理的把柄，除非在与他神的律法有关的事上去找，就寻不 。
Then these men said, We will not find any ground for accusation against this Daniel unless we find something related to him due to the law of his God.
6:6 于是总长和总督纷纷聚集来见王，说，愿大利乌王万岁！
Then these chief ministers and satraps came to prevail upon the king and said thus to him, King Darius, live forever!
6:7 国中的总长、司令、总督、谋士和省长，彼此商议，要王坚立一条律例，严定一道禁令，三十日内不拘何人，若在王以外向任何神明或任何人求什么，
就必扔在狮子坑中。
All the chief ministers of the kingdom, the prefects and the satraps, the counselors and the governors, have taken counsel together that the king should establish
a statute and make firm an edict that anyone who makes a petition within the next thirty days to any god or man besides you, O king, shall be cast into the lions'
den.
6:8 王阿，现在求你立这禁令，签署这文书，使禁令绝不更改，照玛代人和波斯人的法例，是不可废除的。
Now, O king, establish the edict and sign the writing, so that it is not changed, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which cannot pass away.
6:9 于是大利乌王签署了这禁令的文书。
Therefore King Darius signed the writing, that is, the edict.
6:10 但以理知道这文书已经签署了，就到自己家里，(他楼上的窗户，开向耶路撒冷，)一日三次，双膝跪下，在他神面前祷告感谢，因他素常就是这样行。
Now when Daniel came to know that the writing had been signed, he went to his house (in his upper room he had windows open toward Jerusalem) and three
times daily he knelt on his knees and prayed and gave thanks before his God, because he had always done so previously.
6:11 那些人就纷纷聚集，见但以理在他神面前祈祷恳求。
Then these men assembled and found Daniel making petition and supplication before his God.
6:12 他们便进到王前，题王的禁令，说，王阿，三十日内不拘何人，若在王以外向任何神明或任何人求什么，必扔在狮子坑中，王不是签署了这条禁令么？
王回答说，实有这事，照玛代人和波斯人的法例，是不可废除的。
Then they came near and spoke before the king concerning the king's edict: Did you not sign an edict that anyone who petitions, within the next thirty days, any
god or man besides you, O king, shall be cast into the lions' den? The king answered and said, The thing is certain, according to the law of the Medes and
Persians, which cannot pass away.
6:13 他们便对王说，王阿，那被掳之犹大人中的但以理不尊重你，也不尊重你所签署的禁令，竟一日三次祈祷。
Then they answered and said before the king, Daniel, one of the captives from Judah, has not respected you, O king, or the edict that you have signed, but three
times daily makes his petition.
6:14 王听见这话，就甚愁烦，一心要救但以理，竭力要解救他，直到日落的时候。
Then the king, when he heard the thing, was very displeased with himself and set his heart on delivering Daniel; and until the sun set, he made efforts to deliver
him.
6:15 那些人纷纷聚集来见王，说，王阿，当知道玛代人和波斯人有法例，凡王所立的禁令和律例，都不可更改。
Then these men came to prevail upon the king and said to the king, Know, O king, that it is the law of the Medes and Persians that no edict or statute which the
king establishes can be changed.
6:16 于是王下令，人就把但以理带来，扔在狮子坑中。王对但以理说，你所常事奉的神，祂必救你。
Then the king commanded, and they brought Daniel and threw him into the lions' den. The king responded and said to Daniel, Your God, whom you serve
continually, He will deliver you.
6:17 有人搬一块石头放在坑口，王用自己戒指的印，和各大臣戒指的印，封闭那坑，使关于但以理的事，毫无更改。
And a stone was brought and set over the mouth of the den. And the king sealed it with his signet ring and with the signet rings of his lords that nothing might be
changed regarding Daniel.
6:18 王回宫，终夜不食，无人拿乐器到他面前；并且睡不着觉。
Then the king went to his palace and spent the night fasting; and no entertainment was brought before him, and his sleep fled from him.
6:19 次日黎明，天一亮王就起来，急忙往狮子坑那里去。
Then the king arose at dawn at the first light, and went in haste to the lions' den.
6:20 他临近坑边，哀声呼叫但以理，对但以理说，活神的仆人但以理阿，你所常事奉的神能救你脱离狮子么？
And when he had come near the den, he shouted to Daniel with a sad voice; the king responded and said to Daniel, O Daniel, servant of the living God, has your
God, whom you serve continually, been able to deliver you from the lions?
6:21 但以理对王说，愿王万岁！
Then Daniel said to the king, O king, live forever!
6:22 我的神差遣使者，封住狮子的口，叫狮子不伤我，因我在神面前显为无辜，我在王面前也没有行过害人的事。
My God has sent His angel and has shut the lions' mouth, and they have not hurt me, inasmuch as before Him innocence was found in me; and also before you,
O king, I have done no harm.
844
6:23 王就甚为喜乐，吩咐人将但以理从坑里系上来；于是但以理从坑里被系上来；身上不见任何伤损，因为他信靠他的神。
Then the king was very pleased concerning him, and he commanded that they take Daniel up out of the den. So Daniel was taken up out of the den, and he was
found completely unhurt, because he had trusted in his God.
6:24 王下令，人就把那些控告但以理的人，连他们的儿女和妻子都带来，扔在狮子坑中；他们还没有到坑底，狮子就抓住他们，咬碎他们的骨头。
Then the king commanded, and they brought those men who had accused Daniel and threw them into the lion's den, them, their children, and their wives; and
they had not reached the bottom of the den before the lions overpowered them and crushed all their bones.
6:25 那时大利乌王致书给住在全地，各族、各国、各方言的人，说，愿你们大享平安！
Then Darius the king wrote to all the peoples, nations, and languages that dwell in the whole land: May your peace abound!
6:26 现在我下令，在我所统辖的国内，人都要在但以理的神面前战兢恐惧；因为祂是活神，永远长存；祂的国永不败坏，祂的权柄永存无终。
I make a decree that in all the dominion of my kingdom men tremble and fear before the God of Daniel; For He is the living God And enduring forever; And His
kingdom is one which will not be destroyed, And His dominion will be unto the end.
6:27 祂解救人，搭救人，在天上地上施行神迹奇事，救了但以理脱离狮子的爪。
He delivers and rescues, And He does signs and wonders In heaven and on earth; It is He who has delivered Daniel from the power of the lions.
6:28 这但以理，当大利乌王在位的时候，和波斯王古列在位的时候，都得享亨通。
And this Daniel prospered in the reign of Darius and in the reign of Cyrus the Persian.
但以理书 Daniel 第 7 章
7:1 巴比伦王伯沙撒元年，但以理在 上作梦，见了脑中的异象。他就记录这梦，述说事情的大意。
In the first year of Belshazzar the king of Babylon Daniel saw a dream and visions of his head upon his bed. Then he wrote down the dream; he related the sum
of the matters.
7:2 但以理说，我夜间在异象中观看，见天的四风陡起，刮在大海之上。
Daniel responded and said, I was watching in my vision by night, and there were the four winds of heaven, stirring up the Great Sea.
7:3 有四个大兽从海中上来，彼此各不相同。
And four great beasts came up from the sea, each different from the other.
7:4 头一个像狮子，有鹰的翅膀。我正观看的时候，兽的翅膀被拔去，兽从地上被拉起来，用两脚站立，像人一样，又有人心给了它。
The first was like a lion and had the wings of an eagle. I watched until its wings were plucked and it was lifted up from the earth and made to stand on two feet
like a man; and a man's heart was given to it.
7:5 又有一兽如熊，就是第二兽，挺起身体一边，口齿间衔着三根肋骨；有人对它说，起来吞吃多肉。
And there was another beast, a second one, resembling a bear. And it was raised up on one side, and three ribs were in its mouth between its teeth; and they
said thus to it, Arise, devour much flesh.
7:6 此后我观看，又有一兽如豹，背上有鸟的四个翅膀；这兽有四个头，又有权柄给了它。
After this I watched and there was another beast, like a leopard; and it had four wings of a bird on its back; and the beast had four heads, and dominion was
given to it.
7:7 其后我在夜间的异象中观看，见第四兽甚是可怕可惧，极其强壮；这兽有大铁牙，吞吃嚼碎，所剩下的用脚践踏；这兽与前三兽不同，头有十角；
After this I watched in the night visions, and there was a fourth beast, dreadful and frightful and exceedingly strong; and it had large iron teeth; it devoured and
crushed and trampled down the remainder with its feet; and it was different from all the beasts that were before it; and it had ten horns.
7:8 我正注意这些角，见其中又长起一个小角；先前的角中，有三角在这角前连根被拔出来。这角有眼像人的眼，有口说夸大的话。
I was considering the horns; then there was another horn, a small one, which came up among them; and three of the first horns were uprooted from before it.
And there were eyes like the eyes of a man in this horn and a mouth speaking great things.
7:9 我观看，见有些宝座设立，那亘古常在者坐下了。祂的衣服洁白如雪，头发如纯净的羊毛；祂的宝座乃是火焰，其轮乃是烈火。
I watched Until thrones were set, And the Ancient of Days sat down. His clothing was like white snow, And the hair of His head was like pure wool; His throne
was flames of fire, Its wheels, burning fire.
7:10 从祂面前有火河流出。事奉祂的有千千，侍立在祂面前的有万万。审判者已经坐庭，案卷都展开了。
A stream of fire issued forth And came out from before Him. Thousands of thousands ministered to Him, And ten thousands of ten thousands stood before Him.
The court of judgment sat, And the books were opened.
7:11 那时因那小角说夸大话的声音，我就观看，见那兽被杀，身体毁坏，扔在火中焚烧。
I watched then because of the sound of the great things that the horn was speaking; I watched until the beast was slain and its body was destroyed and given to
the burning fire.
7:12 至于其余的兽，权柄都被夺去，生命却仍存留，直到所定的时期和时候。
And as for the rest of the beasts, their dominion was taken away, but an extension of life was given to them for a season and a time.
7:13 我在夜间的异象中观看，见有一位像人子的，驾着天云而来；祂来到亘古常在者那里，被领近祂面前。
I watched in the night visions, And there with the clouds of heaven One like a Son of Man was coming; And He came to the Ancient of Days, And they brought
Him near before Him.
7:14 权柄、荣耀、国度都给了祂，使各族、各国、各方言的人都事奉祂。祂的权柄是永远的权柄，不能废去，祂的国必不毁坏。
And to Him was given dominion, glory, and a kingdom, That all the peoples, nations, and languages might serve Him. His dominion is an eternal dominion,
which will not pass away; And His kingdom is one that will not be destroyed.
7:15 至于我但以理，我的灵在我里面愁烦，我脑中的异象使我惊惶。
As for me, Daniel, my spirit within me was distressed, and the visions of my head alarmed me.
7:16 我就近一位侍立者，问他这一切的准确意义；他就告诉我，将这些事的讲解给我说明：
I came near to one of those standing by and asked of him the exact meaning of all this. So he told me and made the interpretation of the things known to me:
7:17 这四个大兽就是将要在地上兴起的四王。
These great beasts, which are four, are four kings who will arise from the earth.
7:18 然而至高者的圣民，必领受国度，拥有国度，直到永永远远。
But the saints of the Most High will receive the kingdom and possess the kingdom forever, indeed, forever and ever.
845
7:19 那时我愿知道第四兽的准确意义，它为何与那三兽不同，甚是可怕，有铁牙铜爪，吞吃嚼碎，所余剩的用脚践踏，
Then I wished to know the exact meaning of the fourth beast, which was different from all the others, exceedingly dreadful, with its teeth of iron and its claws of
bronze, which devoured, crushed, and trampled under the remainder with its feet,
7:20 它头上有十角和那另长的一角，在这角前有三角倾倒；这角有眼，有说夸大话的口，形状强大，过于它的同伴。
And of the ten horns that were on its head, and the other horn that came up, and before which three horns fell, even that horn that had eyes and a mouth
speaking great things and whose appearance was greater than that of its companions.
7:21 我观看，见这角与圣民争战，胜了他们，
I watched and that horn waged war with the saints and prevailed against them,
7:22 直到亘古常在者来临，为至高者的圣民伸冤，圣民得 国度的时候就到了。
Until the Ancient of Days came; and judgment was given to the saints of the Most High; and the time came when the saints possessed the kingdom.
7:23 那侍立者这样说，第四兽就是地上必有的第四国，与一切国不同，必吞吃全地，并且践踏嚼碎。
Thus he said, The fourth beast will be the fourth kingdom upon the earth, which will be different from all the other kingdoms; and it will devour the whole earth
and tread it down and crush it.
7:24 至于那十角，就是从这国中必兴起的十王，后来又兴起一王，与先前的不同，他必制伏三王。
And as for the ten horns, out of this kingdom ten kings will arise, and another will arise after them, and he will be different from the previous ones; and he will
subdue three kings.
7:25 他必向至高者说顶撞的话，并折磨至高者的圣民；他想要改变节期和律法；圣民必交付在他手中一年、二年、半年。
And he will speak things against the Most High and wear out the saints of the Most High; and his intention will be to change the times and the law; and they will
be given into his hand for a time and times and half a time.
7:26 然而审判者必坐庭，他的权柄必被夺去，以致毁坏、灭绝，一直到底。
But the court of judgment will sit, and they will take away his dominion, so as to annihilate and destroy it unto the end.
7:27 国度、权柄、和天下诸国的尊大，必赐给至高者的圣民；祂的国是永远的国，一切掌权的都必事奉祂，顺从祂。
And the kingdom and dominion and the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole heaven will be given to the people of the saints of the Most High; His
kingdom is an eternal kingdom, and all the dominions will serve and obey Him.
7:28 那事至此完毕。至于我但以理，我的心意甚为惊惶，脸色也改变了，却将那事存记在心。
Here is the end of the matter. As for me, Daniel, my thoughts alarmed me greatly, and my countenance was changed, but I kept the matter in my heart.
但以理书 Daniel 第 8 章
8:1 伯沙撒王在位第三年，有异象显与我但以理，是在起初所显与我的异象之后。
In the third year of the reign of Belshazzar the king a vision appeared to me, Daniel, after the one that appeared to me at the beginning.
8:2 我在异象中观看，正观看时，我在以拦省书 城中；在异象中正观看时，我在乌莱河边。
And I looked in the vision, and while I looked, now I was in the fortress of Shushan, which is in the province of Elam; and while I looked in the vision, I was beside
the river Ulai.
8:3 我举目观看，见有一只双角的公绵羊面向河站着，两角都高，这角高过那角，更高的是后长的。
Then I lifted my eyes, and I looked, and there was a ram, standing before the river, and he had two horns. And the two horns were high, but one was higher than
the other; and the higher one came up last.
8:4 我见那公绵羊往西、往北、往南抵触；兽在他面前都站立不住，也没有能救护脱离他手的，但他任意而行，渐渐强大。
I saw the ram pushing westward, northward, and southward; and no beast could stand before him, and there was no one who could deliver from his power; but
he did as he pleased, and he became great.
8:5 我正思想的时候，见有一只公山羊从西而来，遍行全地，脚不触地；这山羊两眼之间，有一显著的角。
And while I considered this, there was a male goat, coming from the west over the face of the whole earth without touching the ground; and the goat had a
conspicuous horn between his eyes.
8:6 他往我所看见面向河站着，有双角的公绵羊那里去，大发忿怒，向他直闯。
And he came up to the ram that had the two horns, which I had seen standing before the river, and ran toward him in his mighty wrath.
8:7 我见公山羊就近公绵羊，向他发烈怒，冲撞他，折断他的两角；绵羊无力抵挡他，被他撞倒在地，用脚践踏；没有能救绵羊脱离他手的。
And I saw him come close to the ram, and he was enraged at him; and he struck the ram and broke his two horns; and the ram had no strength to withstand
him, but the goat threw him down to the ground and trampled him; and there was none to deliver the ram from his power.
8:8 这山羊成为极其强大，正强盛的时候，那大角折断了，在角根上向天的四方，长出四个显著的角来。
And the male goat became very great. But once he became strong, the great horn was broken, and in its place four conspicuous ones came up toward the four
winds of heaven.
8:9 四角之中，有一角长出一个小角，向南、向东、向荣美之地，渐渐极其强大。
And out of one of them came forth a little horn, which grew very great toward the south, toward the east, and toward that which is beautiful.
8:10 他渐渐强大，高及天象，将些天象和星宿抛落在地，用脚践踏。
And it grew great, as high as the host of heaven; and it caused some of the host and some of the stars to fall to the earth, and it trampled them.
8:11 并且他渐渐强大，以为高及天象之君；祂日常的祭祀从祂除掉，祂的圣所被毁坏。
Indeed, he grew in greatness to that of the Prince of the host; and from Him the daily sacrifice was taken away, and the place of His sanctuary was thrown down.
8:12 因过犯的缘故，有军兵和日常的祭祀交付与他；他将真理抛在地上，行事无不顺利。
And an army was given to him together with the daily sacrifice because of transgression; and he cast truth down to the ground, and he took action and
prospered.
8:13 我听见有一位圣者说话，又有一位圣者问那说话的圣者，说，这除掉日常祭祀，和造成荒凉的过犯，以致圣所与军兵遭践踏的异象，要持续多久呢？
Then I heard a holy one speaking; and another holy one said to the particular one who was speaking, How long will the vision concerning the daily sacrifice and
the transgression that desolates apply, so that the sanctuary and the host are trampled down?
8:14 他对我说，到二千三百个日夜，圣所就必得洁净。
And he said to me, For two thousand three hundred nights and days; then the sanctuary will be cleansed.
846
8:15 我但以理见了这异象，寻求明白其中的意思，忽有一位样子像人的，站在我面前。
And when I, Daniel, had seen the vision, I sought an understanding of it; and immediately there was someone with an appearance like that of a man standing
before me.
8:16 我又听见乌莱河两岸间有人声呼叫说，加百列阿，要使此人明白这异象。
And I heard the voice of a man between the banks of the Ulai; and He called out and said, Gabriel, cause this man to understand the vision.
8:17 他便来到我所站的地方；他一来，我就惊慌，面伏于地；他对我说，人子阿，你要明白，这异象是关于末期的。
So he came near to where I stood; and when he came, I was afraid, and I fell on my face; but he said to me, Understand, O son of man, that the vision pertains
to the end time.
8:18 他与我说话的时候，我面伏在地沉睡了；但他摸我，扶我站在原地。
And as he was speaking with me, I fell into a deep sleep on my face upon the ground; but he touched me and made me stand in my place.
8:19 他说，我要使你知道恼怒末期必发生的事，因为这是关于末后的定期。
And he said, I now make known to you what will happen at the end of the indignation, for the vision pertains to the appointed time of the end.
8:20 你所看见双角的公绵羊，就是玛代和波斯王。
The ram that you saw, which had the two horns, are the kings of Media and Persia.
8:21 那多毛的公山羊，就是雅完王；它两眼之间的大角，就是头一王。
And the hairy goat is the king of Javan; and the great horn which was between its eyes is the first king.
8:22 至于那折断了的角，及其根上长出的四角，乃是从这国里兴起来的四国，只是力量都不及他。
And the broken horn and the four horns that arose in its place are four kingdoms that will arise from his nation, but not with his power.
8:23 在这四国末期，犯法的人罪恶满盈，必有一王兴起，面貌凶恶，善用双关的诈语。
And in the latter time of their kingdom, When the transgressors have filled up their transgressions, A king will arise, Of fierce countenance and skilled in
ambiguities.
8:24 他的力量必强大，却不是因自己的力量，他必行非常的毁灭，并且行事顺利；又必毁灭有能力者和圣民。
And his power will be mighty, but not by his own power. And he will destroy in an extraordinary manner And will prosper and take action. He will destroy mighty
men And the holy people.
8:25 他用权术使手中的诡计亨通；他心里自高自大，在人坦然安定的时候，毁灭多人；又要站起来攻击万君之君，至终却非因人手而被灭。
Through his craftiness He will also cause deceit to prosper in his hand; And he will magnify himself in his heart; And he will destroy many who are complacently
secure. And against the Prince of princes he will stand up; But he will be broken, yet not by human hands.
8:26 所说二千三百日夜的异象是真的，但你要将这异象封住，因为那是关于许多日子以后的事。
And the vision of the evenings and the mornings, Which has been told, is true. But shut the vision up, For it pertains to something many days from now.
8:27 于是我但以理疲惫力竭，病了数日，然后起来办理王的事务；我因这异象惊奇，却无人能解释其中的意思。
Then I, Daniel, was spent, and I was sick for days. Then I arose and conducted the king's affairs; but I was astonished at the vision, and there was no one to
explain it.
但以理书 Daniel 第 9 章
9:1 玛代族，亚哈随鲁的儿子大利乌，立为迦勒底国的王元年，
In the first year of Darius the son of Ahasuerus, a Median descendant who was made king over the kingdom of the Chaldeans,
9:2 就是他在位第一年，我但以理从经书上得知耶和华临到申言者耶利米的话，论耶路撒冷荒凉的年数，七十年为满。
In the first year of his reign I, Daniel, understood by means of the Scriptures the number of the years, which came as the word of Jehovah to Jeremiah the prophet,
for the completion of the desolations of Jerusalem, that is, seventy years.
9:3 我便禁食，披麻蒙灰，面向主神寻求，祷告、恳求。
So I set my face toward the Lord God to seek Him in prayer and supplications with fasting and sackcloth and ashes.
9:4 我向耶和华我的神祷告、认罪，说，哎，主阿，大而可畏的神，向爱祂守祂诫命的人，守约并施慈爱。
And I prayed to Jehovah my God and confessed; and I said, Ah, Lord, the great and awesome God, who keeps covenant and lovingkindness with those who love
Him and keep His commandments,
9:5 我们犯罪作孽，行恶悖逆，偏离你的诫命典章。
We have sinned and have committed iniquity, and we have acted wickedly and rebelled, to the point of even turning away from Your commandments and from
Your judgments.
9:6 没有听从你仆人众申言者，在你名里向我们君王、首领、列祖、和那地一切百姓所说的话。
And we have not listened to Your servants the prophets, who spoke in Your name to our kings, our chief men, and our fathers, as well as to all the people of the
land.
9:7 主阿，公义归于你，满面羞愧归于我们，正如今日一样，就是归于犹大人和耶路撒冷的居民、并以色列众人，或在近处，或在远处，被你赶到各地的
人，因为他们犯了对你不忠信的罪。
To You, Lord, belongs righteousness, but to us, shamefacedness, as it is this day, that is, to the men of Judah and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem and to all Israel,
those who are near and those who are far off in all the lands to which You have driven them because of their trespass by which they have trespassed against
You.
9:8 耶和华阿，满面羞愧归于我们，就是归于我们的君王、首领、列祖，因为我们得罪了你。
O Jehovah, to us belongs shamefacedness, to our kings, our chief men, and our fathers, because we have sinned against You.
9:9 怜恤和饶恕归于主我们的神，因为我们悖逆了祂；
To the Lord our God belong compassion and forgiveness, for we have rebelled against Him;
9:10 我们没有听从耶和华我们神的话，没有遵行祂藉仆人众申言者摆在我们面前的训诲。
And we have not obeyed the voice of Jehovah our God, to walk in His instruction, which He set before us through the hand of His servants the prophets.
9:11 以色列众人都犯了你的律法，甚至偏离，不听从你的话；因此，在你仆人摩西律法上所写的咒诅和誓言，都倾倒在我们身上，因为我们得罪了神。
847
Indeed, all Israel has transgressed Your law, to the point of even turning away so as not to obey Your voice; thus the curse has been poured out upon us, the very
oath that is written in the law of Moses the servant of God, for we have sinned against Him.
9:12 祂使大灾祸临到我们，证实了祂警戒我们的话，和祂警戒那些审判我们之审判官的话；原来在普天之下，未曾行过像在耶路撒冷所行的。
And He has confirmed His words which He spoke against us and against our judges who judged us, by bringing upon us great ill; for under all heaven there has
not been done anything like that which has been done in Jerusalem.
9:13 这一切灾祸临到我们身上，是照摩西律法上所写的；我们却没有求耶和华我们神的恩惠，使我们回头离开罪孽，留心你的真理。
As it is written in the law of Moses, all this ill has come upon us, yet we have not entreated the favor of Jehovah our God by turning from our iniquities and
attending to Your truth.
9:14 所以耶和华留意使这灾祸临到我们身上，因为耶和华我们的神在祂所行的事上，都是公义的；我们并没有听从祂的话。
Therefore Jehovah has been vigilant with the ill and has brought it upon us, for Jehovah our God is righteous in all the deeds that He has done, but we have not
obeyed His voice.
9:15 主我们的神阿，你曾用大能的手领你的子民出埃及地，使自己得了名，正如今日一样；我们犯了罪，作了恶。
And now, O Lord our God, who have brought Your people out of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand and have made for Yourself a name, as it is this day, we
have sinned, we have been wicked.
9:16 主阿，求你按 你所显明的一切公义，使你的怒气和忿怒转离你的城耶路撒冷，就是你的圣山；耶路撒冷和你的子民，因我们的罪和我们列祖的罪孽，
被四围的人羞辱。
O Lord, in accordance with all the manifestations of Your righteousness, may Your anger and Your wrath be turned away, I pray, from Your city Jerusalem, Your
holy mountain; for because of our sins and the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and Your people are a reproach to all those around us.
9:17 我们的神阿，现在垂听你仆人的祷告恳求，为主的缘故使你的脸光照你荒凉的圣所。
And now hear, O our God, the prayer of Your servant and his supplications, and cause Your face to shine upon Your sanctuary that has been desolated, for the
Lord's sake.
9:18 我的神阿，求你侧耳听；睁眼看我们的荒凉，和称为你名下的城；我们在你面前恳求，原不是靠自己所行的义，乃是靠你的大怜恤。
O my God, incline Your ear and hear; open Your eyes and see our desolations and the city that is called by Your name; for we are not presenting our
supplications before You based upon any righteous doings that we have done, but based upon Your great compassion.
9:19 主阿，求你垂听！主阿，求你赦免！主阿，求你倾听并行事！我的神阿，为你自己的缘故，求你不要迟延；因你的城和你的民，都是称为你名下的。
O Lord, hear! O Lord, forgive! O Lord, listen and take action! Do not delay, for Your own sake, O my God; for Your city and Your people are called by Your own
name.
9:20 当我还在说话、祷告，承认我的罪，和我本民以色列的罪，为我神的圣山，在耶和华我神面前恳求；
And while I was still speaking and praying and confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel and presenting my supplication before Jehovah my God for the
holy mountain of my God,
9:21 正当我祷告说话的时候，起初在异象中所见的那人加百列，在我精疲力竭时，约在献晚祭的时候就近我。
Even while I was speaking in prayer, the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning, reached me in my utter exhaustion about the time of the
evening oblation.
9:22 他指教我，对我说，但以理阿，现在我出来要使你有见识，有聪明。
And he informed me and talked with me and said, Daniel, I have now come forth to give you insight with understanding.
9:23 你初恳求的时候，就有命令发出，我来告诉你，因你是大蒙眷爱的；所以你要明白这事，思想这异象。
At the beginning of your supplications the command went forth, and I have come to tell you, for you are preciousness itself. Therefore understand the matter, and
consider the vision.
9:24 为你本国之民和你的圣城，已经截定了七十个七，要终止过犯，了结罪恶，为罪孽成就平息，带进永远的义，封住异象和预言，并膏至圣所。
Seventy weeks are apportioned for your people and for your holy city, to close the transgression, and to make an end of sins, and to make propitiation for iniquity,
and to bring in the righteousness of the ages, and to seal up vision and prophet, and to anoint the Holy of Holies.
9:25 所以你当知道，当明白：从出令重新修建耶路撒冷，直到弥赛亚君的时候，必有七个七和六十二个七；既使在艰难的时候，耶路撒冷城也必连街带濠，
重新建造。
Know therefore and comprehend: From the issuing of the decree to restore and rebuild Jerusalem until the time of Messiah the Prince will be seven weeks and
sixty-two weeks; it will be built again, with street and trench, even in distressful times.
9:26 过了六十二个七，弥赛亚必被剪除，一无所有；必有一王的民来毁灭这城和圣所；结局必有洪水，并一直到底的争战；荒凉的事已经定了。
And after the sixty-two weeks Messiah will be cut off and will have nothing; and the people of the prince who will come will destroy the city and the sanctuary;
and the end of it will be with a flood, and even to the end there will be war; desolations are determined.
9:27 他必与许多人坚定一个七的盟约；到一七之半，他必使祭祀和供献止息，并且以那造成荒凉者的可憎之物代替祭祀和供献，直到所定之完全的毁坏倾
倒在那造成荒凉者的身上。
And he will make a firm covenant with the many for one week; and in the middle of the week he will cause the sacrifice and the oblation to cease and will replace
the sacrifice and the oblation with abominations of the desolator, even until the complete destruction that has been determined is poured out upon the desolator.
但以理书 Daniel 第 10 章
10:1 波斯王古列第三年，有话启示给称为伯提沙撒的但以理；这话是真的，是指极大的困苦，但以理明白这话，懂得这异象。
In the third year of Cyrus the king of Persia a word was revealed to Daniel, who was named Belteshazzar; and the word was true and concerning a great distress.
And he understood the word and had an understanding of the vision.
10:2 当那些日子，我但以理悲伤了三个七日。
In those days I, Daniel, had been mourning for three full weeks.
10:3 美食我没有吃，酒肉没有入我的口，也没有用油抹我的身，直到满了三个七日。
I ate no desirable food, nor did meat or wine enter my mouth, nor did I anoint myself at all, until the three full weeks were completed.
10:4 正月二十四日，我在希底结大河边，
And on the twenty-fourth day of the first month, while I was by the great river, that is, the Hiddekel,
848
10:5 举目观看，见有一人身穿细麻衣，腰束乌法精金带。
I lifted up my eyes and I looked, and there was a certain man, clothed in linen, whose loins were girded with the fine gold of Uphaz.
10:6 祂身体如水苍玉，面貌如闪电，眼目如火把，手和脚如闪耀发亮的铜，说话的声音如大众的声音。
His body also was like beryl, His face like the appearance of lightning, His eyes like torches of fire, His arms and His feet like the gleam of polished bronze, and
the sound of His words like the sound of a multitude.
10:7 这异象惟有我但以理一人看见，同着我的人没有看见；他们却大大战兢，逃跑隐藏，
And I, Daniel, alone saw the vision, for the men who were with me did not see the vision; instead, a great dread fell on them, and they fled to hide themselves.
10:8 只剩下我一人；我见了这大异象，便浑身无力，面色死灰，毫无力气。
Thus I was left alone and I saw this great vision; and no strength was left in me, but my color turned deathly pale; and I retained no strength.
10:9 我却听见祂说话的声音；我一听见祂说话的声音，就面伏在地沉睡了。
Yet I heard the sound of His words; and when I heard the sound of His words, I fell into a deep sleep on my face, with my face to the ground.
10:10 忽然有一只手摸我，使我用膝和手掌，战抖着支起来。
And at that moment a hand touched me and sent me trembling on my knees and the palms of my hands.
10:11 他对我说，大蒙眷爱的但以理阿，要明白我与你所说的话，只管在原地站起，因为我现在奉差遣来到你这里；他对我说这话，我便战战兢兢的立起来。
And he said to me, Daniel, man of preciousness, understand the words that I am about to tell you and stand in your place, for I have now been sent to you. And
when he had spoken this word to me, I stood up trembling.
10:12 他说，但以理阿，不要惧怕，因为从你第一日专心求明白这事，又在你神面前刻苦自己，你的言语已蒙垂听；我是因你的言语而来。
And he said to me, Do not be afraid, Daniel, for from the first day that you set your heart to understand this matter and to afflict yourself before your God, your
words were heard; and I have come because of your words.
10:13 但波斯国的魔君，拦阻我二十一日；然而大君中的一位米迦勒来帮助我，因我单独滞留在波斯诸王那里。
But the prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me for twenty-one days; but now Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me, for I remained there
alone with the kings of Persia.
10:14 现在我来要使你明白你的民在末后日子必遭遇的事，而这异象是关于许多日子以后的事。
Thus I have come to make you understand what will happen to your people in the last days, yet the vision pertains to something many days from now.
10:15 他向我说这些话时，我脸面朝地，哑口无声。
And when he had spoken to me according to these words, I turned my face to the ground and was dumb.
10:16 不料，有一位像人子的，摸我的嘴唇；我便开口说话，向那站在我面前的说，我主阿，因这景象，我大受痛苦，毫无力气。
And at that moment one who resembled the sons of men touched my lips; and I opened my mouth and spoke, and I said to him who stood before me, Sir,
because of the vision my anguish has turned upon me, and I have retained no strength.
10:17 我主的仆人怎能与我主说话呢？至于我，现今我浑身无力，毫无气息。
For how can such a servant of my lord speak with such as my lord? For as for me, just now there is no strength in me, nor has there been breath left in me.
10:18 有一位样子像人的，又摸我使我有力量；
Then the one who was in appearance like a man touched me again and strengthened me;
10:19 他说，大蒙眷爱的人哪，不要惧怕，愿你平安。你要刚强，要刚强；他一向我说话，我便觉得有力量，说，我主请说，因你使我有了力量。
And he said, Do not be afraid, man of preciousness. Peace to you. Be strong, yes, be strong. And when he spoke to me, I received strength and said, Speak, sir,
for you have strengthened me.
10:20 他就说，你知道我为何来见你么？现在我要回去与波斯的魔君争战，我出去后雅完的魔君必来。
Then he said, Do you know why I have come to you? And now I will return to fight with the prince of Persia; so I go forth, and the prince of Javan is now about to
come.
10:21 但我要将那记录在真理书上的事告诉你。除了你们的君米迦勒之外，没有刚强帮助我抵挡这两魔君的。
However I will tell you what is inscribed in the writing of truth. Yet there is no one who holds strongly with me against these ones except Michael your prince.
但以理书 Daniel 第 11 章
11:1 我在玛代王大利乌元年，曾起来扶助他，使他坚强。
And I, in the first year of Darius the Mede, stood up to support and strengthen him.
11:2 现在我将真情告诉你。波斯还有三王要兴起，第四王必取得财富，远胜诸王，他因富足成为强盛，就必激动全国攻击雅完国。
And now I will tell you the truth. There will yet arise three kings in Persia; then the fourth will gain great riches, more than all of them; and once he becomes strong
because of his riches, he will stir up the whole empire against the realm of Javan.
11:3 必有一个有能力的王兴起，执掌大权，随意而行。
And a mighty king will arise there, and he will rule with great dominion and do as he pleases.
11:4 但他一兴起，他的国就破裂，向天的四方分开，却不归他的后裔，治国的权势也都不及他；因为他的国必被拔出，归与他后裔之外的人。
But once he arises, his kingdom will be broken and divided toward the four winds of heaven, but not to his posterity, nor according to his dominion with which he
ruled; for his kingdom will be plucked up and given to others besides his descendants.
11:5 南方的王必强盛，他将帅中必有一个权势渐渐超过他，并要执掌权柄，他的权柄甚大。
And the king of the south will become strong, as well as one of his princes, who will grow in strength above him and have dominion; his dominion will be a great
dominion.
11:6 过些年后，他们必互相联合。南方王的女儿，必就了北方王来立盟约；但这女子的势力存留不住，王和他的势力，也不能存立；这女子和引导她来联
盟的，并生她的，以及当时扶助她的，都必交与死地。
And at the end of some years they will join themselves together. And the daughter of the king of the south will go to the king of the north and make a treaty; but
she will not retain the strength of her arm, nor will he and his arm stand; but she will be given up, along with those who brought her into the alliance and him
who begot her and supported her in those times.
11:7 但这女子的根必另兴起一嫩枝继续王位，他必攻击北方王的军队，进入北方王的保障，攻打他们，而且得胜。
But a shoot from her roots will arise in his place, and he will come against the army and enter into the fortress of the king of the north; and he will deal with them
and show his strength.
849
11:8 他要将他们的神像、铸成的像、与金银的宝器，掠到埃及去；数年之内，他不去攻击北方王。
And also their gods with their cast images, with their precious vessels of silver and gold, he will carry off into captivity in Egypt; and for some years he will refrain
from the king of the north.
11:9 北方王必进入南方王的国，却要仍回本地。
And the king of the north will come to the kingdom of the king of the south, but he will return to his own land.
11:10 他的二子必动干戈，招聚许多军兵；这一军兵必凶猛前来，如洪水冲没泛滥，又必再去争战，直到南方王的保障。
But his sons will stir themselves up to war and will gather a multitude of great forces; and one will come unrelentingly and will overflow and pass through and will
return and wage war, even up to the fortress of the king of the south.
11:11 南方王必发烈怒，出来与北方王争战，北方王必兴举大军，但他的军众必交付南方王的手。
And the king of the south will be enraged and will come forth to fight with him, with the king of the north. Then the king of the north will raise up a great multitude,
but the multitude will be given into the hand of the king of the south.
11:12 他的军众被掳去，南方王的心也必高傲，他虽使数万人仆倒，却不能得胜。
When the multitude is carried away, the heart of the king of the south will be lifted up; and he will cast down tens of thousands, but he will not prevail.
11:13 北方王必回来，他必兴举大军，比先前的更多；过了数年，他必率领大军，带着极多的辎重，凶猛而来。
For the king of the north will return, and he will raise up a multitude greater than the first; and at the end of some years he will come unrelentingly with a great
army and with much materiel.
11:14 那时必有许多人起来攻击南方王，并且你本民中的强暴人必高抬自己，成就那异象，他们却要败亡。
And in those times many will rise up against the king of the south; and the violent ones of your people will lift themselves up to establish the vision, but they will
fall.
11:15 北方王必来，筑垒攻取坚固城；南方的军兵必站立不住，就是精选的人也无力站住。
Then the king of the north will come and cast up a siege mound and capture the fortified city; and the forces of the south will not stand, nor his choice people, for
there will be no strength to stand.
11:16 来攻击南方王的，必任意而行，无人在北方王面前站立得住。他必站在荣美之地，用手施行毁灭。
But he who comes against the king of the south will do as he pleases; and no one will stand before him. And he will stand in the beautiful land, and destruction
will be in his hand.
11:17 他必定意用全国之力而来，与南方王立和平的约，并要照约而行，将年少的女子给南方王为妻，想要败坏他的国。女子却不能为他站立，对他毫无用
处。
And he will set his face to come with the strength of his whole kingdom, and with him there will be terms of peace that he will act upon. And he will give the king
of the south a youthful daughter, to destroy it; yet she will not be able to stand for him, but will be of no use to him.
11:18 其后他必转回，面向众海岛，夺取许多岛屿。但有一首领必为自己使他造成的羞辱止息，并且使这羞辱归他本身。
Then he will turn his face to the coastlands and will capture many. But a leader, for his own sake, will put an end to the reproach caused by him; indeed, he will
turn his reproach back on him.
11:19 北方王就必转回，面向本地的保障，却要绊跌仆倒，归于无有。
Then the king of the north will turn his face to the fortresses of his own land, but he will stumble and fall and will not be found.
11:20 那时必有一人兴起接续他的王位，使一暴虐的人通行国中的荣美地；这王不多日就必破灭，却不是因忿怒，也不是因争战。
Then there will arise in his place one who will cause an oppressor to pass through the splendor of the kingdom; yet within a few days he will be broken, but not
while venting his anger nor pursuing battle.
11:21 必有一个卑鄙的人兴起接续他的王位，人必不将国的尊荣给他，他却趁人安稳的时候，用狡猾奸诈的言语行动夺了国。
Then there will arise in his place a despicable person, to whom the honor of a kingdom will not be given; but he will come in a time of security and will seize the
kingdom by smooth and cunning words and actions.
11:22 势如洪水泛滥的军兵，必在他面前被冲没、败坏，连与他同盟的君也必如此。
And the overflowing forces will be flooded over before him and broken, even also the prince of the covenant.
11:23 他与那君结盟之后，必行诡诈；他必上来，以微小的民成为强盛。
And once he has made an alliance with him, he will practice deceit and will go up and become mighty with a small group of people.
11:24 他趁人安稳的时候，必进到国中极肥美之地，行他列祖和他列祖之祖所未曾行的；他必将掳物、掠物和财宝，散给众人；又设计攻打保障，然而这
都是暂时的。
In a time of security he will enter even the richest parts of the kingdom and will do that which his fathers never did, nor his fathers' fathers; prey, spoil, and riches
will he scatter among them, and against strongholds he will devise strategies, but only for a while.
11:25 他必奋力鼓勇，率领大军攻击南方王；南方王也必以极大极强的军兵与他争战，却站立不住，因为有人设计谋害南方王。
And he will stir up his power and his heart against the king of the south with a great army; and the king of the south will stir himself up to wage war with an
extremely great and mighty army of his own; but he will not stand, for strategies will have been devised against him.
11:26 那些吃王膳食的，必毁坏他；他的军队必如洪水泛滥，多人必被杀仆倒。
And those who eat of his choice provision will destroy him; and his army will overflow, and many will fall down slain.
11:27 至于这二王，他们心怀邪恶，同席说谎；但所行的必不成功，因为到了定期，结局才来到。
And as for both of these kings, their hearts will be to do evil, and they will speak lies across one table; but what they do will not succeed, for the end is still at the
appointed time.
11:28 北方王必带许多财宝回往本地；他的心却反对圣约，任意而行，回到本地。
Then the king of the north will return to his land with great riches; but his heart will be set against the holy covenant, and he will take action and will return to his
land.
11:29 到了定期，他必返回，来攻南方；但这后一次，却不如前一次，
At the appointed time he will return and come against the south; but this latter time will not be like the former time.
11:30 因为基提战船必来攻击他，他就丧胆而回；又要恼恨圣约，任意而行；他必回来，特别留意背弃圣约的人。
For ships of Kittim will come against him; therefore he will be disheartened and will turn away; and he will be enraged at the holy covenant and will take action.
When he turns away, he will focus his attention on those who forsake the holy covenant.
11:31 他必起兵亵渎圣所，就是保障，且要除掉日常的献祭；他们必设立那造成荒凉的可憎之物。
850
And forces from him will arise and profane the sanctuary, establishing the fortress and removing the daily sacrifice; and they will set up the abomination that
desolates.
11:32 作恶违背圣约的人，他必用花言巧语使他们被玷污；惟独认识神的子民，必刚强行事。
And with his smooth words he will cause those who act wickedly toward the covenant to be profane. But the people who know their God will show strength and
take action.
11:33 民间的通达人，必训诲多人，然而他们多日必倒在刀下，或被火烧，或被掳掠抢夺。
And those with insight among the people will cause the many to understand; yet they will fall by sword and by flames, by captivity and by plundering for some
days.
11:34 他们跌倒的时候，稍得扶助；有许多人只用谄媚的话依附他们。
And when they fall, they will be helped with a little help; and many will join themselves to them in word only.
11:35 通达人中有些跌倒的，为要熬炼百姓，使他们纯净洁白，直到末时，因为到了定期，结局才来到。
And some of those with insight will fall, in order to refine the people and to purify and cleanse them, until the time of the end, for the end is still at the appointed
time.
11:36 王必任意行事，自高自大，超过所有的神，又用奇异的话攻击万神之神；他必行事亨通，直到忿怒完毕，因为所定的事，必然成就。
And the king will do as he pleases; and he will exalt himself and magnify himself above every god, and against the God of gods he will speak extraordinary
things; and he will prosper until the indignation is complete; for what has been determined will be done.
11:37 他必不顾他列祖的神，也不顾妇女所羡慕的神，无论何神他都不顾，因为他必自大，高过一切。
And he will not regard the gods of his fathers or the desire of women, nor will he regard any other god; for he will magnify himself above all.
11:38 他倒要尊崇保障的神，用金银宝石和珍宝，敬奉他列祖所不认识的神。
But he will honor instead the god of fortresses; indeed a god whom his fathers did not know he will honor with gold, silver, precious stones, and treasures.
11:39 他必靠外邦神明的帮助，攻击最坚固的保障；凡承认他的，他必将荣耀加给他们，使他们管辖许多人，又分地赏给他们。
And he will take action against the most fortified of fortresses with the help of a foreign god; he will increase the honor of those who acknowledge him and will
cause them to rule over many, and he will divide the land to them as a reward.
11:40 到了末时，南方王要与他交战，北方王必用战车、马兵、和许多战船，势如暴风来攻击他，也必进入列国，如洪水冲没泛滥；
And at the time of the end the king of the south will push against him, and the king of the north will storm back at him with chariots and horsemen and many
ships; and he will enter the countries and overflow and pass through.
11:41 又必进入荣美之地，有许多国就被倾覆；但以东人、摩押人、和亚扪人中为首的，必脱离他的手。
He will also enter the beautiful land, and many countries will fall; but these will slip away from his hand: Edom, Moab, and the foremost of the children of Ammon.
11:42 他必伸手攻击列国；埃及地也不得逃脱。
Then he will stretch forth his hand against the countries, and for the land of Egypt there will be no escape.
11:43 他必把持埃及人隐藏的金银财宝，和各样的宝物；吕彼亚人和古实人，都必跟从他的脚步。
And he will have control over the hidden stores of gold and silver and over all the precious things of the Egyptians; and the Libyans and Cushites will follow in his
steps.
11:44 但从东方和北方必有消息扰乱他，他就大发烈怒出去，将多人杀灭净尽。
But news from the east and from the north will trouble him, and he will go forth with great wrath destroying and exterminating many.
11:45 他必在海和荣美的圣山之间，支搭他如宫殿的帐幕；然而到了他的结局，必无人帮助他。
And he will pitch the tents of his palace between the sea and the beautiful holy mountain; but he will come to his end, and there will be no one to help him.
但以理书 Daniel 第 12 章
12:1 那时保护你本民的大君米迦勒必起来；并且必有困苦的时期，是从有国以来直到那时未曾发生过的；那时，你本民中凡记录在册上的，必得拯救。
And at that time Michael, the great prince who stands for the children of your people, will arise; and there will be a time of distress, such as never occurred since
there came to be a nation until that time; and at that time your people, every one found written in the book, will be delivered.
12:2 睡在尘埃中的，必有多人醒起；其中有归到永远生命的，有归到羞辱，永远蒙羞的。
And many of those who are sleeping in the dust of the ground will awake, some to life eternal and some to reproach, to eternal contempt.
12:3 通达人必发光，如同穹苍的光辉；那使多人归义的，必发光如星，直到永永远远。
And those who have insight will shine like the shining of the heavenly expanse, and those who turn many to righteousness, like the stars, forever and ever.
12:4 但以理阿，你要隐藏这话，封闭这书，直到末时；必有多人来往奔跑，知识就必增多。
But you, Daniel, shut up the words and seal the book until the time of the end; many will go here and there, and knowledge will be increased.
12:5 我但以理观看，见另有两位站立，一位在河这边，一位在河那边。
Then I, Daniel, looked, and there were two others standing, one on this bank of the river and the other on that bank of the river.
12:6 有一位问那在河水以上，穿细麻衣的，说，这些奇事的结局，还有多久才到呢？
And one said to the man clothed in linen, who was above the water of the river, How long will it be until the end of these wonders?
12:7 我听见那在河水以上，穿细麻衣的，向天举起左右手，凭着那永远活着的主起誓，说，要到一年、二年、半年，打破圣民权力完成的时候，这一切事
就都完成了！
And I heard the man clothed in linen, who was above the water of the river, as He lifted up His right hand and His left hand to heaven and swore by Him who
lives forever that there would be a time and times and half a time; and when the shattering of the power of the holy people is completed, all these things will be
completed.
12:8 我听见这话，却不明白，就说，我主阿，这些事末后的结局是怎样呢？
And I heard, but I did not understand. Then I said, Lord, what will the latter end of these things be?
12:9 祂说，但以理阿，你只管去，因为这些话已经隐藏封闭，直到末时。
And He said, Go your way, Daniel, for the words are shut up and sealed until the time of the end.
12:10 许多人必得洁净，成为洁白，且被炼净，但恶人仍必行恶；一切恶人都不明白，惟独通达人能明白。
Many will be purified, cleansed, and refined, but the wicked will act wickedly; and none of the wicked will understand, but those who have insight will understand.
12:11 从除掉日常献的祭，并设立那造成荒凉的可憎之物的时候，必有一千二百九十日。
851
And from the time that the daily sacrifice is removed and the abomination that desolates is set up, there will be a thousand two hundred and ninety days.
12:12 凡等到一千三百三十五日的，那人便为有福。
Blessed is he who waits and reaches the thousand three hundred and thirty- five days!
12:13 你且去等候结局，你必安歇；到末了的日子，你必起来，享受你的业分。
But you, go your way until the end, and you will rest and rise again in your lot at the end of the days.
852
28. 何西阿书 Hosea
何西阿书 Hosea 第 1 章
1:1 当乌西雅、约坦、亚哈斯、希西家作犹大王，约阿施的儿子耶罗波安作以色列王的日子，耶和华的话临到备利的儿子何西阿。
The word of Jehovah which came to Hosea the son of Beeri in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the
son of Joash the king of Israel.
1:2 耶和华初次与何西阿说话，对他说，你去娶淫妇为妻，也收那从淫乱所生的儿女，因为这地大行淫乱，离弃耶和华。
At the beginning of Jehovah's speaking to Hosea, Jehovah said to Hosea, Go, take to yourself a wife of harlotries And children of harlotries, For the land is entirely
given over to harlotry, And thus departs from Jehovah.
1:3 于是何西阿去娶了滴拉音的女儿歌篾；这妇人怀孕，给他生了一个儿子。
So he went and took Gomer the daughter of Diblaim. And she conceived and bore him a son.
1:4 耶和华对何西阿说，给他起名叫耶斯列，因为再过片时，我必追讨耶户家在耶斯列杀人流血的罪，也必使以色列家的国灭绝。
And Jehovah said to him, Call his name Jezreel, For yet a little while And I will avenge the bloodshed of Jezreel Upon the house of Jehu And will bring an end to
the kingdom of the house of Israel.
1:5 到那日，我必在耶斯列山谷折断以色列的弓。
And in that day I will break the bow of Israel In the valley of Jezreel.
1:6 歌篾又怀孕生了一个女儿；耶和华对何西阿说，给她起名叫罗路哈玛，因为我必不再怜恤以色列家，决不赦免他们。
And she conceived again and bore a daughter. And He said to him, Call her name Lo-ruhamah, For I will no longer have compassion On the house of Israel,
That I should forgive them at all.
1:7 我却要怜恤犹大家，我必凭耶和华他们的神拯救他们，必不凭弓、刀、争战、马匹、与马兵拯救他们。
But on the house of Judah I will have compassion and will save them by Jehovah their God, and I will not save them by bow or by sword or by battle, by horses or
by horsemen.
1:8 歌篾给罗路哈玛断奶以后，又怀孕生了一个儿子。
When she had weaned Lo-ruhamah, she conceived and bore a son.
1:9 耶和华说，给他起名叫罗阿米，因为你们不是我的子民，我也不属于你们。
And He said, Call his name Lo-ammi, For you are not My people, And I will not belong to you.
1:10 然而以色列的人数必如海沙，不可量，不可数；从前在什么地方对他们说，你们不是我的子民，将来在那里必对他们说，你们是活神的儿子。
But the number of the children of Israel will be like the sand of the sea, Which cannot be measured or numbered; And in the place where it will be said to them,
You are not My people, It will be said to them, You are the sons of the living God.
1:11 犹大人和以色列人必一同聚集，为自己立一个首领，从这地上去，因为耶斯列的日子必为大日。
And the children of Judah and the children of Israel will be gathered together, And they will appoint for themselves one head, and they will go up from the land,
For great will be the day of Jezreel.
何西阿书 Hosea 第 2 章
2:1 你们要对你们的弟兄说，阿米；要对你们的姊妹说，路哈玛。
Say to your brothers, Ammi, And to your sisters, Ruhamah.
2:2 你们要与你们的母亲大大争辩，因为她不是我的妻子，我也不是她的丈夫；叫她除掉脸上的淫乱，和胸间的奸淫，
Contend with your mother; contend. For she is not my wife, And I am not her husband. And let her turn away her harlotries from her face, And her adulteries from
between her breasts,
2:3 免得我剥去她的衣服，使她赤身像才生的日子一样，使她如旷野，如干旱之地，以干渴杀死她。
Lest I strip her naked And set her out as in the day she was born And make her a wilderness And make her a dry land And slay her with thirst.
2:4 我必不怜恤她的儿女，因为他们是从淫乱生的儿女。
And on her children I will not have compassion, For they are the children of harlotries.
2:5 他们的母亲行了淫乱，怀他们的母作了可羞耻的事，因为她说，我要随从所爱的人，他们给我饼和水，羊毛和麻，油和酒。
For their mother has gone about as a harlot; She who conceived them has acted shamefully; For she has said, I will go after my lovers, Who give me my bread
and my water, My wool and my flax, My oil and my drink.
2:6 因此，我必用荆棘堵塞她的道，筑墙挡住她，使她找不着路。
Therefore I will now hedge up Her way with thorns; And I will build up a wall against her, So that she will not find her paths.
2:7 她必追随所爱的人，却追不上，她必寻找他们，却寻不见；便说，我要归回前夫，因我那时的光景比如今还好。
And she will pursue her lovers But will not overtake them; And she will seek them but not find them; And she will say, I will go And return to my first husband, For
it was better for me then than now.
2:8 她不知道是我给她五谷、新酒和新油；又加增她的金银；他们却用于巴力。
For she did not know That it was I who gave her The grain and the new wine and the fresh oil, And who multiplied to her silver And gold, which they used for Baal.
2:9 因此到了收割的时候，出酒的季节，我必将我的五谷新酒收回，也必将她应当遮体的羊毛和麻夺去。
Therefore I will take back My grain in its time And My new wine in its appointed season, And I will snatch away My wool and My flax, Which were to cover her
nakedness.
2:10 如今我必在她所爱的人眼前，显露她的淫荡，必无人能救她脱离我的手。
And now I will uncover her lewdness In the sight of her lovers, And no one will deliver her from My hand.
2:11 我必使她一切的欢乐，她的节期、月朔、安息日、并她所定一切的会，都止息了。
And I will bring all her mirth to an end, Her feasts, her new moons, and her Sabbaths, And all her appointed assemblies.
2:12 我也必使她的葡萄树和无花果树荒芜，就是她说，这是我所爱的人给我为代价的；我必使这些树变为丛林，为田野的走兽所吃。
And I will desolate her vine and her fig tree, Of which she said, These are my payments That my lovers have given me; And I will make them a forest, And the
beasts of the field will devour them.
853
2:13 我必在她身上追讨她素日给诸巴力烧香的罪，那时她佩带鼻环和珠宝，随从她所爱的人，却忘记了我；这是耶和华说的。
And I will visit the days of the Baals upon her, In which she offered incense to them And adorned herself with her nose rings and her jewels And went after her
lovers And forgot Me, Declares Jehovah.
2:14 因此我必诱导她，领她到旷野，对她的心说话；
Therefore I am now luring her, And I will bring her into the wilderness And will speak to her heart.
2:15 从那里我必赐她葡萄园，又赐她亚割谷作为指望的门；她必在那里应声，与她幼年的日子一样，与她从埃及地上来的日子相同。
And I will give her her vineyards from there And the valley of Achor as a door of hope; And she will respond there as in the days of her youth And as in the day
when she came up out of the land of Egypt.
2:16 耶和华说，那日你必称呼我：我的丈夫，不再称呼我：巴力。
And in that day, declares Jehovah, You will call Me My Husband And will no longer call Me Baali.
2:17 因为我必从她口中除掉诸巴力的名号，他们的名号不再被记念。
For I will take away the names of the Baals from her mouth, And they will no longer be remembered by their name.
2:18 当那日我必为我的民，与田野的走兽、空中的飞鸟、并地上的爬物立约；又必从那地折断弓刀，止息争战，使他们安然躺卧。
And I will make a covenant for them In that day With the beasts of the field And with the birds of heaven And the creeping things of the earth; And bow and
sword and battle I will break from the land, And I will cause them to lie down in safety.
2:19 我必聘你永远归我为妻，以公义和公平，以慈爱和怜恤聘你归我；
And I will betroth you to Myself forever; Indeed I will betroth you to Myself In righteousness and justice And in lovingkindness and compassions;
2:20 也必以信实聘你归我，你就必认识我耶和华。
Indeed I will betroth you to Myself in faithfulness, And you will know Jehovah.
2:21 耶和华说，那日我必应允；我必应允天，天必应允地，
And in that day I will answer, declares Jehovah; I will answer the heavens, And they will answer the earth,
2:22 地必应允五谷、新酒和新油，这些必应允耶斯列民。
And the earth will answer the grain And the new wine and the fresh oil, And they will answer Jezreel.
2:23 我必将她播种在这地归我，我必怜恤罗路哈玛；我必对罗阿米说，你是我的民；他们必说，你是我的神。
And I will sow her for Myself in the land; And I will have compassion on Lo-ruhamah, And I will say to Lo-ammi, You are My people; And they will say, My God.
何西阿书 Hosea 第 3 章
3:1 耶和华对我说，你再去爱一个妇人，就是为她友伴所爱、却又犯奸淫的，好像以色列人，虽然转向别神，喜爱葡萄饼，耶和华还是爱他们。
Then Jehovah said to me, Go again, love a woman who is loved by her companion yet who is an adulteress, even as Jehovah has loved the children of Israel,
though they turn to other gods and love raisin cakes.
3:2 我便用十五锭银子，一贺梅珥半大麦，买她归我。
So I bought her for myself for fifteen pieces of silver and a homer of barley and a half-homer of barley.
3:3 我对她说，你当多日为我独居，不可行淫乱，不可归别人为妻；我向你也必这样。
And I said to her, You will abide for me for many days; you shall not go about as a harlot nor be another man's; and I will be the same toward you.
3:4 因为以色列人也必多日独居，无君王，无首领，无祭祀，无柱像，无以弗得，无家中的神像。
For the children of Israel will abide for many days without king and without prince and without sacrifice and without pillar and without ephod and teraphim.
3:5 后来以色列人必归回，寻求他们的神耶和华，和他们的王大卫；在末后的日子，必心存敬畏归向耶和华，领受祂的美善。
Afterward the children of Israel will return and seek Jehovah their God and David their King, and they will come with fear to Jehovah and to His goodness in the
last days.
何西阿书 Hosea 第 4 章
4:1 以色列人哪，你们当听耶和华的话；耶和华要与这地的居民争辩，因这地上无忠信，无恩慈，无人认识神。
Hear the word of Jehovah, O children of Israel; For Jehovah has a controversy With the inhabitants of the land. For there is no faithfulness or kindness And no
knowledge of God in the land.
4:2 却有诅咒、欺骗、凶杀、偷盗、奸淫；他们行强暴，杀人流血接连不断。
Rather there are swearing and deceiving and murder And stealing and adultery; They are violent, And bloodshed follows bloodshed.
4:3 因此，这地悲哀，其中的一切居民、田野的兽、空中的鸟必都衰微，连海中的鱼也必除去。
Because of this the land mourns, And all the inhabitants languish within it, With the beasts of the field And with the birds of heaven; Indeed, even the fish of the
sea will be taken away.
4:4 然而人都不必争辩，也不必指责；因为你的民与那些跟祭司争辩的人一样。
Yet let no man contend, And let no man reprove; For your people are like those who contend with the priest.
4:5 你必在日间绊跌，申言者也必在夜间与你一同绊跌；我必灭绝你的母亲。
And you will stumble in the day, And the prophet also will stumble With you in the night; And I will destroy your mother.
4:6 我的民因无那样的认识而灭绝；你弃掉那样的认识，我也必弃掉你，使你不再给我作祭司；你既忘了你神的律法，我也必忘记你的儿女。
My people are destroyed Because of a lack of that knowledge. For you have rejected that knowledge, And I will reject you, so that you will not be a priest to Me;
Since you have forgotten the law of your God, I also will forget your children.
4:7 祭司越发增多，就越发得罪我；我必使他们的荣耀变为羞辱。
The more they were multiplied, the more they sinned against Me; I will change their glory into shame.
4:8 他们吃我民的赎罪祭，满心愿望我的民行罪孽。
They feed on the sin of My people, And their soul desires their iniquity.
4:9 将来民如何，祭司也必如何；我必因他们所行的惩罚他们，照他们所作的报应他们。
And it will be that as it is with the people, so it will be with the priest; Thus I will visit their ways upon them, And I will recompense their doings to them.
854
4:10 他们吃，却不得饱；行淫，而不得增多；因为他们离弃耶和华，不遵从祂。
And they will eat but will not be filled; And they will commit fornication but will not increase; For they have ceased giving heed to Jehovah.
4:11 淫乱和酒并新酒，夺去他们的心。
Fornication and wine And new wine take away their heart.
4:12 我的民求问木头柱像，以为木杖能指示他们，因为淫乱的灵使他们失迷，他们就行淫离弃了他们的神。
My people inquire at their wooden post, And their rod informs them of things; For a spirit of harlotries makes them err, And they have gone about as harlots away
from their God.
4:13 他们在各山顶献祭，在各高冈的橡树、杨树、栗树之下烧香，因为树影美好。所以你们的女儿行淫乱，你们的新妇犯奸淫。
Upon the tops of the mountains they offer sacrifices, And upon the hills they burn incense, Under oak, poplar, and terebinth, Because its shade is good. Therefore
your daughters go about as harlots, And your brides commit adultery.
4:14 你们的女儿行淫乱，你们的新妇犯奸淫，我却不惩罚她们；因为你们男人自己离群与娼妓同居，与妓女一同献祭；这无知的民，必至倾倒。
I will not punish your daughters when they go about as harlots Nor your brides when they commit adultery; For the men themselves go off with harlots, And they
offer sacrifices with the prostitutes; And the people who have no understanding will be cast down.
4:15 以色列阿，你虽然行淫乱，犹大却不可犯罪；不要往吉甲去，不要上到伯亚文，也不要指着永活的耶和华起誓。
Though you, Israel, go about as a harlot, Let not Judah trespass; And do not come to Gilgal, Nor go up to Beth-aven, Nor swear, As Jehovah lives.
4:16 因为以色列倔强，犹如倔强的母牛；现在耶和华要牧放他们，如同牧放羊羔在宽阔之地么？
For Israel is stubborn, Like a stubborn heifer; Will Jehovah now pasture them Like a lamb in a spacious place?
4:17 以法莲与偶像联合，任凭他们罢。
Ephraim is joined to idols; Leave him alone.
4:18 他们的酒已经喝尽；他们放纵自己行淫，他们的官长最爱羞耻的事。
Their liquor has ended; They have given themselves up to harlotry; Their rulers dearly love shame.
4:19 风把他们裹在翅膀里，他们必因所献的祭蒙羞。
The wind has wrapped her up in its wings, And they will be ashamed because of their sacrifices.
何西阿书 Hosea 第 5 章
5:1 众祭司阿，要听这话；以色列家阿，要留心听；王家阿，要侧耳听。审判要临到你们，因你们曾是米斯巴的网罗，是他泊山上铺张的网。
Hear this, O priests; And listen, O house of Israel; And, O house of the king, give ear. For to you belongs the judgment, For you have been a snare at Mizpah And
a net spread over Tabor.
5:2 悖逆的人肆行杀戮，罪孽极深，我却惩治他们众人。
And the revolters have gone deep into slaughtering, Though I am a chastisement to them all.
5:3 以法莲为我所知，以色列不能向我隐藏；以法莲哪，你行了淫乱，以色列被玷污了。
I know Ephraim, And Israel is not hidden from Me; For now, Ephraim, you have gone about as a harlot; Israel is defiled.
5:4 他们所行的不容他们归向神；因有淫乱的灵在他们里面，他们也不认识耶和华。
Their doings do not permit them To turn to their God; For a spirit of harlotries is within them, And they do not know Jehovah.
5:5 以色列的骄傲当面见证自己，以色列和以法莲必因自己的罪孽绊跌；犹大也必与他们一同绊跌。
And the pride of Israel testifies to his face, And Ephraim and Israel will stumble in their iniquity; Judah also will stumble with them.
5:6 他们必牵着牛羊去寻求耶和华，却寻不见；祂已经退去离开他们。
With their flocks and with their herds they will go To seek Jehovah, But they will not find Him; He has withdrawn Himself from them.
5:7 他们向耶和华行事诡诈，因为他们生了私子；到了月朔，他们与他们所得的分必被吞灭。
They have acted treacherously against Jehovah, For they have begotten strange children. Now the new moon will devour them With their apportionments.
5:8 你们当在基比亚吹角，在拉玛吹号，在伯亚文吹出大声，说，便雅悯哪，当心你的后头！
Blow the horn in Gibeah, The trumpet in Ramah; Sound an alarm at Beth-aven: Behind you, O Benjamin!
5:9 在责罚的日子，以法莲必变为荒场；我在以色列支派中，已指示确定必成的事。
Ephraim will be a desolation In the day of correction; Among the tribes of Israel I have made known what is sure.
5:10 犹大的首领如同挪移地界的人；我必将盛怒倒在他们身上，如水一样。
The princes of Judah have become Like those who move a boundary mark. I will pour out upon them My overflowing wrath like water.
5:11 以法莲因定意随从人的命令，就受欺压，被审判压碎。
Ephraim is oppressed, Crushed by judgment, For he was determined to walk After man's command.
5:12 所以我向以法莲如蛀虫，向犹大家如朽木。
Therefore I am like a moth to Ephraim And like rottenness to the house of Judah.
5:13 以法莲见自己有病，犹大见自己有伤，以法莲就打发人往亚述去见耶雷布王；他却不能医治你们，你们的伤必不能离身。
When Ephraim saw his sickness, And Judah his wound, Ephraim went to Assyria And sent word to King Jareb; But he cannot heal you, And the wound will not
depart from you.
5:14 我必向以法莲如狮子，向犹大家如少壮狮子。我必撕裂他们而去；我必夺去他们，无人搭救。
For I will be like a lion to Ephraim And like a young lion to the house of Judah. I, I will tear them and go away; I will carry them off, and there will be no one to
deliver them.
5:15 我要去，回到我自己的地方，等他们承认自己的罪过，寻求我的面；他们在急难的时候，必切切的寻求我。
I will go away, I will return to My place, Until they acknowledge their offense And seek My face; In their affliction they will seek Me earnestly.
何西阿书 Hosea 第 6 章
6:1 来罢，我们归向耶和华；祂撕裂我们，也必医治；祂打伤我们，也必缠裹。
Come and let us return to Jehovah; For He has torn us, but He will heal us, And He has stricken us, but He will bind us up.
855
6:2 过两天祂必使我们活过来，第三天祂必使我们兴起，我们就在祂面前活着。
He will enliven us after two days; On the third day He will raise us up, And we will live in His presence.
6:3 我们务要认识耶和华，竭力追求认识祂；祂出现确定如晨光，祂必临到我们像甘雨，像滋润大地的春雨。
Therefore let us know, let us pursue knowing Jehovah: His going forth is as sure as the dawn, And He will come to us as the rain, As the latter rain which waters
the earth.
6:4 主说，以法莲哪，我可向你怎样行呢？犹大阿，我可向你怎样作呢？因为你们的慈爱如同早晨的云雾，又如速散的甘露。
What shall I do with you, O Ephraim? What shall I do with you, O Judah? For your lovingkindness is like a morning cloud And like dew that departs early.
6:5 因此，我藉申言者砍伐他们，以我口中的话杀戮他们，我的审判如光发出。
Therefore I hewed them to pieces by the prophets; I slew them by the words of My mouth, And My judgments went forth as light.
6:6 我喜悦慈爱，不喜悦祭祀，喜悦认识神，胜于燔祭。
For I delight in lovingkindness and not sacrifice, And the knowledge of God more than burnt offerings.
6:7 他们却如亚当背约，在那里向我行事诡诈。
But they like Adam have transgressed the covenant; There they have acted treacherously against Me.
6:8 基列是行罪孽之人的城，被血沾染。
Gilead is a city of those who commit iniquity; It is tracked with blood.
6:9 强盗成群，怎样埋伏杀人；祭司结党，也照样在示剑的路上杀戮行邪恶。
And like bands of robbers lying in wait for a man, The company of priests murder on the way to Shechem; Indeed they commit wickedness.
6:10 在以色列家，我见了可怕的事：以法莲在那里有淫行；以色列玷污了自己。
In the house of Israel I have seen a horrid thing: The harlotry of Ephraim is there; Israel has defiled itself.
6:11 犹大阿，我使被掳之民归回的时候，必有为你所命定的收成。
Also, O Judah, there is a harvest appointed for you, When I will turn the captivity of My people.
何西阿书 Hosea 第 7 章
7:1 我想医治以色列的时候，以法莲的罪孽和撒玛利亚的恶行就显露出来；因为他们行事虚谎。内有贼人入室偷窃，外有强盗成群抢劫。
When I would heal Israel, Then the iniquity of Ephraim is discovered As well as the evil deeds of Samaria; For they practice falsehood. And the thief comes inside;
The band of robbers makes raids outside.
7:2 他们心里并不说，我记得他们的一切恶。他们所行的现在缠绕他们，都在我面前。
And they do not say in their hearts That I remember all their evil. Now their doings are all around them; They are before My face.
7:3 他们以邪恶使君王欢喜，以谎言使首领喜乐。
They make the king glad with their evil, And the princes, with their lies.
7:4 他们都是行奸淫的，像火炉被烤饼者烧热：从抟面到发面的时候，他暂不使火发旺。
All of them practice adultery; They are like an oven heated by the baker: He ceases from stirring the fire, After kneading the dough, until it is leavened.
7:5 在我们王宴乐的日子，首领因酒的烈性成病；王与亵慢人拉手。
On the feast day of our king The princes made themselves sick with the heat of wine; He stretched out his hand with scorners.
7:6 他们埋伏的时候，心中热如火炉：就如烤饼者整夜睡卧，到了早晨，火炉烧旺，火气炎炎。
For they have made their heart ready Like an oven while they lie in wait: All night long Their baker sleeps, But in the morning the oven burns Like a flaming fire.
7:7 众人也热如火炉，吞灭他们的审判官；他们的君王都仆倒而死；他们中间无一人呼求我。
All of them are hot like an oven, And they devour their judges; All their kings fall; There is no one among them who calls on Me.
7:8 以法莲与列邦人搀杂；以法莲是没有翻过的饼。
Ephraim-among the peoples He mixes himself; Ephraim is a cake Not turned.
7:9 外邦人吞吃他力量得来的，他自己却不知道；满头白发，他自己也不晓得。
Strangers have devoured his strength, And he himself does not know it; Indeed gray hairs are all over him, And he himself does not know it.
7:10 以色列的骄傲当面见证自己；虽遭遇这一切，他们仍不归向耶和华他们的神，也不寻求祂。
And the pride of Israel testifies to his face; Yet they have not returned to Jehovah their God, And they have not sought Him, because of all this.
7:11 以法莲好像鸽子愚蠢无知：他们呼求埃及，投奔亚述。
And Ephraim has become like a silly dove Without understanding: They call to Egypt; They go to Assyria.
7:12 他们去的时候，我必将我的网撒在他们身上；我要打下他们，如同空中的鸟；我必按他们会众所听见的，管教他们。
When they go, I will spread My net over them; I will bring them down like the birds of heaven; I will chasten them according to the report given to their assembly.
7:13 他们有祸了！因他们飘离了我。他们必遭毁灭，因他们违背我。我虽要救赎他们，他们却向我说谎。
Woe to them! For they have wandered from Me. Devastation to them! For they have transgressed against Me. And I would have redeemed them, But they have
spoken lies against Me.
7:14 他们心中并不哀求我，乃在床上呼号。他们为求五谷新酒聚集，仍然悖逆我。
And they did not cry unto Me in their heart When they howled in their beds. For grain and new wine they assemble themselves; They rebel against Me.
7:15 我虽训练他们，坚固他们的膀臂，他们竟图谋恶事抗拒我。
Though I trained them and strengthened their arms, They devise evil against Me.
7:16 他们归向，却不归向至上者；他们如同诡诈的弓。他们的首领，必因舌头的狂傲倒在刀下。这在埃及地必为人所讥笑。
They return, but not to Him who is on high; They are like a deceitful bow. Their princes will fall by the sword Because of the rage of their tongue. This will be their
derision In the land of Egypt.
何西阿书 Hosea 第 8 章
8:1 你用口吹角罢！敌人如鹰来攻打耶和华的家，因为这民违背了我的约，干犯了我的律法。
A trumpet to your lips! Like an eagle he comes against the house of Jehovah, Because they have trespassed My covenant And have transgressed against My law.
856
8:2 他们必呼叫我说，我的神阿，我们以色列认识你了。
They will cry unto Me, My God, we know You, we Israel.
8:3 以色列丢弃良善，仇敌必追逼他。
Israel has cast off what is good; The enemy will pursue him.
8:4 他们立君王，却不是由于我；他们立首领，我却不承认。他们用金银为自己制造偶像，以致被剪除。
They have set up kings, but not by Me; They have set up princes, but I did not acknowledge it. With their silver and their gold they made Idols for themselves, That
they might be cut off.
8:5 撒玛利亚阿，你的牛犊已经丢弃你！我的怒气向拜牛犊的人发作。他们到几时才能无罪呢？
Your calf has cast you off, O Samaria; My anger burns against them. How long will they be incapable of innocence?
8:6 这牛犊竟然出于以色列！是匠人所造的，并不是神；撒玛利亚的牛犊，必被打碎。
For from Israel is this! A workman made it; Thus it is no God. The calf of Samaria Will be shattered to pieces.
8:7 他们所种的是风，所收的是旋风。所种的不成禾稼，就是发苗也产不出面， 便产出，外人也必吞吃。
For they have sown wind, And they will reap a whirlwind. It has no stalk; should there be a sprout, It will not produce flour; If it should produce, Strangers will
swallow it up.
8:8 以色列被吞吃；他们现今在列国中，好像人不喜悦的器皿。
Israel has been swallowed up; Now they have become among the nations Like a vessel in which no one takes pleasure.
8:9 因为他们上亚述去，如同独行的野驴；以法莲有雇来的爱人。
For they have gone up to Assyria Like a wild ass gone alone by itself; Ephraim has hired lovers.
8:10 他们虽在列邦中雇了这样的人，现在我却要聚集他们；他们因君王和首领所加的重担，必渐渐衰微。
Indeed though they have hired such among the nations, I will now gather them; And they will begin to be diminished because of the burden Of the king of the
princes.
8:11 以法莲筑了许多祭坛取罪，因此，祭坛使他犯罪。
Because Ephraim has multiplied altars for sin, Altars will be to him for sin.
8:12 我为他写了律法万条，却被看如外人的事。
I wrote for him the ten thousand things of My law, But they are considered as a strange thing.
8:13 至于献给我的祭物，他们虽然宰献祭牲并吃祭肉，耶和华却不悦纳他们。现在祂必想起他们的罪孽，惩罚他们的罪；他们必归回埃及。
As for the sacrifices of My offerings, They sacrifice flesh and eat it, But Jehovah has no delight in them. Now He will remember their iniquity, And He will punish
their sins; They will return to Egypt.
8:14 以色列忘记造他的主，建造宫殿，犹大多造坚固城；我却要降火焚烧他的城邑，烧灭其中的宫殿。
For Israel has forgotten his Maker And has built palaces, And Judah has multiplied fortified cities; But I will send fire into his cities, And it will devour its palaces.
何西阿书 Hosea 第 9 章
9:1 以色列阿，不要喜乐，不要像外邦人欢腾，因为你行淫乱离弃了你的神，在各谷场上如妓女喜爱酬价。
Do not rejoice, O Israel, To exult like the nations. For you have gone as a harlot away from your God; You have loved payment Upon every grain floor.
9:2 谷场和酒醡，都不够喂养他们，新酒也必使他们失望。
The threshing floor and the winepress will not feed them, And the new wine will fail her.
9:3 他们必不得住耶和华的地，以法莲却要归回埃及，必在亚述吃不洁净的食物。
They will not dwell in the land of Jehovah; But Ephraim will return to Egypt, And in Assyria they will eat what is unclean.
9:4 他们必不得向耶和华奠酒，所献的祭也不蒙悦纳。他们的祭物，必如居丧者的食物，凡吃的必被玷污，因他们的食物，只为他们自己，必不奉入耶和
华的殿。
They will not pour out offerings of wine to Jehovah, Neither will their sacrifices be pleasing to Him; They will be to them as the bread of mourning; All who eat
them will be unclean, For their bread will be for themselves; It will not come into the house of Jehovah.
9:5 在大会的日子，到耶和华的节期，你们要怎样行呢？
What will you do In the day of assembly And in the day of the feast of Jehovah?
9:6 他们因逃避灾难离去；埃及人必收殓他们，摩弗人必葬埋他们。他们用银子作的美物上必长蒺藜；他们的帐棚中必生荆棘。
For they will go because of destruction; Egypt will gather them; Moph will bury them. As for their desirable things of silver, nettles will dispossess them; Thistles will
be in their tents.
9:7 以色列人必知道，惩罚的日子临近，报应的时候来到。申言者愚昧，受灵感者疯狂；皆因你罪孽极多，大怀仇恨。
The days of the visitation have come; The days of the recompense have come; Israel will know it. The prophet is a fool, The inspired man is mad, Because of the
greatness of your iniquity And because of the greatness of the enmity.
9:8 以法莲曾作我神的守望者。至于申言者，在他一切的道路上有捕鸟人的网罗，在他神的家中有仇恨。
Ephraim was a watchman With my God. As for the prophet, a fowler's trap Is in all his ways; Enmity is in the house of his God.
9:9 他们深深的败坏了自己，如在基比亚的日子一样；耶和华必记得他们的罪孽，必追讨他们的罪。
They have deeply corrupted themselves As in the days of Gibeah; He will remember their iniquity; He will punish their sins.
9:10 主说，我遇见以色列如葡萄在旷野；我看见你们的列祖如无花果树上首先初熟的果子。他们却来到巴力毗珥，分别自己归与那可羞耻的，就成为可憎
恶的，与他们所爱的人一样。
I found Israel Like grapes in the wilderness; I saw your fathers As the first ripe fruit on the fig tree at its beginning. They went to Baal-peor And sanctified
themselves unto the shameful thing, And they became detestable, like the thing that they loved.
9:11 至于以法莲人，他们的荣耀必如鸟飞去－必不生产，不怀胎，不成孕！
As for Ephraim, their glory Will fly away like a bird-No birth, no pregnancy, and no conception!
9:12 纵然养大儿女，我却必使他们丧子，甚至不留一人。我离弃他们的时候，他们就有祸了。
For even if they bring up their children, I will bereave them, so that not a man is left. Indeed woe also to them When I turn away from them.
9:13 我看以法莲如推罗栽于草地；以法莲却要将自己的儿女带出来，交与行杀戮的人。
Ephraim, as I have seen him, Is planted like Tyre in a meadow; But Ephraim will bring forth His children to the slayer.
857
9:14 耶和华阿，求你加给他们－你要加给他们什么呢？求你使他们胎坠乳干。
Give them, O Jehovah-What will You give them? Give them a miscarrying womb And dry breasts.
9:15 耶和华说，他们一切的邪恶都在吉甲，我在那里憎恶他们。因他们所行的恶，我必从我家中赶他们出去，不再怜爱他们；他们的首领都是悖逆的。
All their evil is in Gilgal, For there I hated them. Because of the evil of their doings I will drive them from My house, I will love them no more; All their princes are
rebels.
9:16 以法莲受责打；他们的根枯干，不结果子；既或生产，我必杀他们腹中所出的爱子。
Ephraim is stricken; Their root is dried up; They will not bear fruit. Indeed though they bring forth, I will kill the beloved fruit of their womb.
9:17 我的神弃绝了他们，因为他们不听从祂；他们也必飘流在列国中。
My God has rejected them, For they did not listen to Him. And they will be wanderers among the nations.
何西阿书 Hosea 第 10 章
10:1 以色列是茂盛的葡萄树，结果繁多。他的果子越多，就越增添祭坛；地土越肥美，就越造美好的柱像。
Israel is a luxuriant vine; He brings forth fruit for himself. According to the abundance of his fruit He has multiplied altars; According to the goodness of their land
They have made pillars well.
10:2 他们心怀二意，现今要定为有罪。耶和华必拆毁他们的祭坛，毁坏他们的柱像。
Their heart is divided; Now they will be found guilty. He Himself will break down their altars; He will destroy their pillars.
10:3 现今他们必说，我们没有王，因为我们不敬畏耶和华；王能为我们作什么呢？
For now they will say, We have no king, For we did not fear Jehovah; And the king, what can he do for us?
10:4 他们在立约时说空话，起假誓，因此，审判如毒草滋生在田间的犁沟中。
They speak mere words, Swearing falsely While making a covenant; And judgment sprouts forth like poisonous weeds In the furrows of the field.
10:5 撒玛利亚的居民必因伯亚文的牛犊惊恐，拜它的民为它悲哀，拜它为偶像的祭司为它战兢，都因荣耀离开它去了。
The inhabitants of Samaria will fear For the calves of Beth-aven; For its people will mourn over it, And its idol priests will tremble for it, For its glory, Because it has
departed from it.
10:6 人必将牛犊带到亚述，当作礼物献给耶雷布王。以法莲必蒙羞，以色列必因自己的计谋惭愧。
Indeed it will be carried to Assyria: A present to King Jareb. Ephraim will be taken in shame, And Israel will be ashamed of his own counsel.
10:7 撒玛利亚和她的王必被剪除，如水面的枯枝一样。
Samaria will be cut off with her king And will be like twigs on the surface of the water.
10:8 伯亚文的邱坛，就是以色列的罪，必被毁灭。荆棘和蒺藜必长在他们的祭坛上；他们必对大山说，遮盖我们！对小山说，倒在我们身上！
And the high places of Aven, the sin of Israel, Will be destroyed. The thorn and the thistle will come up Upon their altars; And they will say to the mountains, Cover
us! And to the hills, Fall on us!
10:9 以色列阿，你从基比亚的日子以来，时常犯罪。他们仍然站在那里；攻击罪孽之辈的战事，岂不是在基比亚追上他们么？
Since the days of Gibeah You have sinned, O Israel; There they have stood. Did not the battle Overtake them in Gibeah Because of the children of iniquity?
10:10 我在愿意的时候必管教他们；他们为两样的罪孽所缠的时候，列邦的民必聚集攻击他们。
When I so desire, I will chastise them; And the peoples will be gathered against them, When they are bound for their double iniquity.
10:11 以法莲是驯良的母牛犊，喜爱踹谷，我却将轭加在它肥美的颈项上：我要使以法莲拉犁，犹大必耕田，雅各必耙地。
And Ephraim is a trained heifer That loves to tread the grain; But I have passed the yoke Over her fair neck: I will make Ephraim draw the plow; Judah will plow;
Jacob will break his clods.
10:12 你们要为自己向公义撒种，就能照着慈爱收割；你们要开垦自己的休耕地，因为现今正是寻求耶和华的时候，等祂临到，使公义如雨降在你们身上。
Sow unto righteousness for yourselves; Reap according to lovingkindness; Break up your fallow ground; For it is time to seek Jehovah Until He comes and rains
Righteousness on you.
10:13 你们耕种的是奸恶，收割的是不义，吃的是谎言的果子。因你倚靠自己的道路，仰赖自己的勇士众多。
You have plowed wickedness; You have reaped injustice; You have eaten the fruit of lying. For you have trusted in your way, In the multitude of your mighty men.
10:14 所以在你民中必起哄嚷之声，你一切的保障必被拆毁，就如沙勒幔在争战的日子拆毁伯亚比勒，将其中的母子一同摔死。
And a tumult will arise among your peoples; And all your fortresses will be devastated, As Shalman devastated Beth-arbel In the day of battle: The mother was
dashed in pieces with the children.
10:15 因你们的大恶，伯特利必使你们遭遇如此：到了黎明，以色列的王必全然灭绝。
Thus Bethel will cause this to happen to you Because of your great evil: At dawn the king of Israel Will be utterly cut off.
何西阿书 Hosea 第 11 章
11:1 以色列年幼的时候我爱他，就从埃及召出我的儿子来。
When Israel was a child, I loved him, And out of Egypt I called My son.
11:2 申言者越发招呼他们，他们越发走开，向诸巴力献祭，给众偶像烧香。
As they called them, So they went from them; To the Baals they sacrificed, And to the idols they burned incense.
11:3 我原教导以法莲行走，用双臂抱着他们，他们却不知道是我医治了他们。
And it was I who taught Ephraim to walk (He took them in His arms), But they did not know that I healed them.
11:4 我用慈绳爱索牵引他们；我待他们如人松开他们腮上的轭，温和的喂养他们。
I drew them with cords of a man, With bands of love; And I was to them like those Who lift off the yoke on their jaws; And I gently caused them to eat.
11:5 他们必不归回埃及地，亚述人却要作他们的王，因他们不肯归向我。
They will not return to the land of Egypt, But the Assyrian will be their king, For they refused to return to Me.
11:6 刀剑必在他们的城中挥动，毁坏门闩，把人吞灭，都因他们随从自己的计谋。
And the sword will whirl about in their cities And will consume their bars, And it will devour them because of their own counsels.
11:7 我的民偏要背道离开我，众申言者虽然招呼他们归向至上的主，却无人尊崇祂。
858
Indeed My people are bent upon turning away from Me; Though they call them to Him who is on high, None at all exalts Him.
11:8 以法莲哪，我怎能舍弃你？以色列阿，我怎能将你交出？我怎能使你如押玛？怎能使你如洗扁？我回心转意，我的怜恤大大发动。
How shall I give you up, O Ephraim? How shall I deliver you up, O Israel? How can I make you like Admah? How can I treat you like Zeboim? My heart is turned
within Me; All My compassions have warmed.
11:9 我必不发猛烈的怒气，也不再毁灭以法莲；因我是神，并非人，是你们中间的圣者，我必不在怒中临到你们。
I will not execute the fierceness of My anger; I will not return to destroy Ephraim; For I am God and not man, The Holy One in the midst of you, And I will not come
in wrath.
11:10 他们必跟随耶和华。祂必如狮子吼叫；祂一吼叫，祂的儿女就从西方战兢而来。
They will walk after Jehovah; He will roar like a lion. For He will roar, And the children will come trembling from the west.
11:11 他们必如雀鸟从埃及战兢而来，又如鸽子从亚述地来到。我必使他们住自己的房屋，这是耶和华说的。
They will come trembling like a bird from Egypt And like a dove from the land of Assyria. And I will cause them to dwell in their houses, Declares Jehovah.
11:12 以法莲用谎言，以色列家用诡计围绕我；犹大向神，向忠信的圣者，仍然犹疑不定。
Ephraim encompasses Me with lies, And the house of Israel, with deceit; And Judah is yet unsteadfast with God And with the Holy One, the Faithful One.
何西阿书 Hosea 第 12 章
12:1 以法莲吃风，终日追赶东风；他增添虚谎和强暴；与亚述立约，把油送到埃及。
Ephraim feeds on wind And follows the east wind continually; He multiplies lies and violence. They make a covenant with Assyria, And oil is carried into Egypt.
12:2 耶和华又与犹大争辩，必照雅各所行的惩罚他，按他所作的报应他。
Jehovah has also a controversy with Judah And will punish Jacob according to his ways; According to his doings He will recompense him.
12:3 他在母腹中抓住哥哥的脚跟，壮年的时候与神较力。
In the womb he grasped his brother by the heel, And in his full strength he contended with God.
12:4 他与天使较力并且得胜；他哭泣恳求，在伯特利遇见耶和华；祂在那里与我们说话，
Indeed he contended with the Angel and prevailed; He wept and made supplication to Him. At Bethel he found Him; And there He spoke with us,
12:5 祂是耶和华万军之神；耶和华是祂可记念的名。
Even Jehovah the God of hosts; Jehovah is His memorial.
12:6 你当归向你的神，谨守慈爱、公平，常常等候你的神。
And you, return there to your God; Keep lovingkindness and justice, And wait on your God continually.
12:7 以法莲是商人，手里有诡诈的天平，喜爱欺诈。
He is a merchant; In his hand are balances of deceit; He loves to extort.
12:8 以法莲说，我果然成了富足，为自己得了财富；我一切劳碌得来的，人必不见有什么不义，可算为罪的。
And Ephraim said, I have surely become rich; I have found wealth for myself. In all my labors They will find with me No iniquity, which would be sin.
12:9 自从在埃及地以来，我就是耶和华你的神；我必使你再住帐棚，如在所定节期的日子一样。
But I have been Jehovah your God Since the land of Egypt; Yet again I will cause you to dwell in tents As in the days of the appointed feast.
12:10 我已晓谕众申言者，并且加增异象，藉申言者使用比喻。
I have also spoken unto the prophets: And I have multiplied vision, And through the prophets I have used similitudes.
12:11 基列人有罪孽么？他们全然是虚假的。他们在吉甲献牛为祭，他们的祭坛好像田间犁沟中的乱堆。
Is Gilead iniquity? They are altogether vanity. In Gilgal they sacrifice oxen; Indeed their altars are like heaps In the furrows of a field.
12:12 从前雅各逃到亚兰地，以色列为得妻子服事人，为得妻子替人放羊。
And Jacob fled into the country of Aram; And Israel served for a wife, And for a wife he kept sheep.
12:13 耶和华藉申言者领以色列从埃及上来，以色列也藉申言者而得保存。
And by a prophet Jehovah brought Israel up from Egypt, And by a prophet he was kept.
12:14 以法莲大大惹动主怒，所以他的主必使他流血的罪归在他身上，必将他自己的羞辱还报他。
Ephraim provoked Him to bitter anger; Therefore his Lord will leave his bloodshed upon him And will recompense him with his own reproach.
何西阿书 Hosea 第 13 章
13:1 从前以法莲说话，人都战兢。他在以色列中高举自己；但他因事奉巴力而犯罪，就死了。
When Ephraim spoke, there was trembling. He exalted himself in Israel; But he trespassed through Baal and died.
13:2 现今他们越发犯罪，用银子为自己造铸像，就是照自己的聪明制造的偶像，都是匠人的工作。他们论到那些偶像，说，献祭的人可以向牛犊亲嘴。
And now they sin more and more And make molten images for themselves out of their silver, Idols according to their own understanding, All of it the work of
craftsmen. Of them they say, Let the men who sacrifice Kiss the calves.
13:3 因此，他们必如早晨的云雾，又如速散的甘露，像禾场上的糠秕被狂风吹去，又像烟气从窗口腾散。
Therefore they will be like a morning cloud And like dew that departs early, Like chaff driven by a storm wind from the threshing floor And like smoke from a
window vent.
13:4 自从在埃及地以来，我就是耶和华你的神；在我以外，你不可认识别神，除我以外并没有救主。
But I have been Jehovah your God Since the land of Egypt; And you were to know no god except Me, For there is no savior besides Me.
13:5 我曾在旷野极其干旱之地认识你。
I knew you in the wilderness, In the land of great drought.
13:6 他们照我所赐的草场得了饱足；既得饱足，心就高傲，忘记了我。
According to their pasturage they became full; They became full, and their heart was exalted; Therefore they have forgotten Me.
13:7 因此，我要向他们如狮子，又如豹伏在道旁窥视。
Thus I will be to them like a lion; Like a leopard I will watch them along the way.
13:8 我遇见他们必像丢崽子的母熊，撕裂他们的心膜；在那里我必像母狮吞吃他们；田野的走兽必撕碎他们。
859
I will meet them like a bear robbed of her cubs, And I will tear away the covering of their heart; And I will devour them there like a lioness; The beast of the field
will tear them to pieces.
13:9 以色列阿，你反对我，就是反对帮助你的，自取毁坏。
It is your destruction, O Israel, That you are against Me, against your help.
13:10 现在你的王在那里呢？让他在你所有的城中拯救你罢。审理你的在那里呢？论到他们，你曾说，把王和首领赐给我。
Where then is your king, That he may save you in all your cities, And your judges of whom you said, Give me a king and some princes?
13:11 我在怒气中将王赐给你，又在盛怒中将王废去。
I gave you a king in My anger And took him away in My overflowing wrath.
13:12 以法莲的罪孽是包裹着的，他的罪是收藏着的。
The iniquity of Ephraim is bound up; His sin is laid up in store.
13:13 产妇的疼痛必临到他身上。他是无智慧之子，到了产期，他不应当迟延。
The pains of a woman giving birth will come upon him. He is an unwise son; For he should not delay at the time The children break forth.
13:14 我必救赎他们脱离阴间的权势，救赎他们脱离死亡。死亡阿，你的灾害在那里？阴间哪，你的毁灭在那里？在我眼前绝无后悔。
From the power of Sheol I will ransom them; From death I will redeem them. Where are your plagues, O death? Where is your destruction, O Sheol? Repentance
will be hidden from My eyes.
13:15 他在弟兄中虽然茂盛，必有东风刮来，就是耶和华的风从旷野上来，他的泉源必干涸，他的源头必枯竭。仇敌必掳掠他所积蓄的一切宝器。
Even if he should be fruitful among his brothers, An east wind will come, A wind of Jehovah Coming up from the wilderness, And his spring will become dry, And
his fountain will be dried up. He will plunder the treasure Of every desirable vessel.
13:16 撒玛利亚必有罪，因为悖逆她的神。他们必倒在刀下，婴孩必被摔死，孕妇必被剖开。
Samaria will be guilty, For she rebelled against her God. They will fall by the sword; Their children will be dashed in pieces, And their pregnant women will be
ripped up.
何西阿书 Hosea 第 14 章
14:1 以色列阿，你要归向耶和华你的神；你是因自己的罪孽绊跌了。
Return, O Israel, To Jehovah your God, For you have fallen by your iniquity.
14:2 当带着祷告的话归向耶和华，对祂说，求你赦免一切罪孽，恩慈的收纳我们；这样，我们就把嘴唇的祭，如同牛犊献上。
Take words with you, And return to Jehovah; Say to Him, Forgive all iniquity, And take us graciously; Thus we will render our lips as bulls.
14:3 亚述不能拯救我们；我们不再骑马；也不再对我们手所造的说，你是我们的神，因为孤儿在你那里得蒙怜恤。
Assyria will not save us; We will not ride upon horses. Neither will we say again to the work of our hands, Our God! Because in You the orphan finds compassion.
14:4 我必医治他们的背道，甘心爱他们；因为我的怒气已从他们转消。
I will heal their apostasy; I will love them freely; For My anger has turned away from him.
14:5 我必向以色列如甘露，他必如百合花开放，如利巴嫩的树木扎根。
I will be like the dew to Israel; He will bud like the lily And will send forth his roots like the trees of Lebanon.
14:6 他的枝条必延伸，他的荣华如橄榄树，他的香气如利巴嫩的香柏树。
His shoots will go forth; And his splendor will be like that of the olive tree, And his fragrance, like that of the trees of Lebanon.
14:7 曾坐在他荫下的必归回，发旺如五谷，开花如葡萄树；他的名声如利巴嫩的酒。
Those who sit under his shade will return; They will revive like grain And will bud like the vine; His renown will be like the wine of Lebanon.
14:8 以法莲必说，我与偶像还有什么相干呢？我耶和华必回答他，也必顾念他。我如青翠的松树，你的果子从我而得。
Ephraim says, What have I yet to do with idols? I respond and look on him. I am like a green fir tree; From Me your fruit is found.
14:9 谁是智慧人？他可以明白这些事。谁是通达人？他可以知道这一切。因为耶和华的道路是正直的，义人必在其中行走，有过犯的人却在其上绊跌。
Who is wise? Then let him understand these things. Who is intelligent? Then let him know them. For the ways of Jehovah are right, And the righteous will walk in
them, But the transgressors will stumble in them.