5. 申命记 Deuteronomy
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 1 章
1:1 以下是摩西在约但河东的旷野，疏弗对面的亚拉巴，在巴兰和陀弗、拉班、哈洗录、底撒哈之间，向以色列众人所说的话。
These are the words which Moses spoke to all Israel across the Jordan in the wilderness, in the Arabah opposite Suph, between Paran and Tophel, Laban,
Hazeroth, and Dizahab.
1:2 从何烈山沿着通往西珥山的路，到加低斯巴尼亚，有十一天的路程。
It is eleven days' journey from Horeb to Kadesh-barnea by the way that leads to Mount Seir.
1:3 出埃及后第四十年，十一月初一日，摩西照耶和华所吩咐他一切关于以色列人的话，都告诉他们；
And in the fortieth year, in the eleventh month, on the first day of the month, Moses spoke to the children of Israel according to all that Jehovah had commanded
him for them,
1:4 那时，他已经击杀了住希实本的亚摩利王西宏，和住亚斯他录、以得来的巴珊王噩。
After he had slain Sihon the king of the Amorites, who dwelt in Heshbon, and Og the king of Bashan, who dwelt in Ashtaroth and in Edrei.
1:5 摩西在约但河东的摩押地，讲解这律法，说，
Across the Jordan, in the land of Moab, Moses set himself to expound this law, saying,
1:6 耶和华我们的神在何烈山对我们说，你们住在这山上的日子够了；
Jehovah our God spoke to us at Horeb, saying, You have dwelt long enough at this mountain.
1:7 要起行转到亚摩利人的山地，和邻近的各民那里，就是亚拉巴、山地、低陆、南地、沿海一带迦南人的地，并利巴嫩，直到大河，就是伯拉河。
Turn and set out, and go to the hill country of the Amorites and to all their neighboring peoples in the Arabah, in the hill country and in the lowland, and in the
Negev and by the seacoast, the land of the Canaanites and Lebanon, as far as the great river, the river Euphrates.
1:8 看哪，我将这地摆在你们面前；你们要进去得这地，就是耶和华向你们列祖亚伯拉罕、以撒、雅各起誓，要赐给他们和他们后裔的地。
See, I have set the land before you; go in and possess the land which Jehovah swore to give to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to them and to
their seed after them.
1:9 那时我对你们说，照管你们的担子，我独自担当不起。
And I spoke to you at that time, saying, I am not able to bear you alone.
1:10 耶和华你们的神使你们多起来；看哪，你们今日像天上的星那样多。
Jehovah your God has multiplied you, and now today you are as the stars of heaven in multitude.
1:11 惟愿耶和华你们列祖的神，使你们比如今更多千倍，照祂所应许你们的，赐福与你们！
Jehovah, the God of your fathers, add to you a thousandfold ones like you and bless you as He has promised you!
1:12 但你们的麻烦，和照管你们的担子，并你们的争讼，我独自一人怎能担当得起呢？
How can I alone bear the trouble and burden of you and your strife?
1:13 你们要按着支派选出有智慧、精明的人，为众人所认识的，我就立他们为你们的首领。
Choose for yourselves men who are wise and prudent and well-attested, according to your tribes, and I will make them your leaders.
1:14 你们回答我说，你所说要我们行的事很好。
And you answered me and said, The thing that you have said to do is good.
1:15 我便将你们各支派的首领，就是有智慧、为众人所认识的，立为你们各支派的千夫长、百夫长、五十夫长、十夫长和官长，作首领管理你们。
So I took the leaders of your tribes, men who were wise and well-attested, and I made them leaders over you, captains over thousands and captains over
hundreds and captains over fifties and captains over tens and officials for your tribes.
1:16 当时，我嘱咐你们的审判官说，你们要在弟兄之间听讼，无论人与弟兄争讼，或人与同住的外人争讼，都要按公义判断。
And I charged your judges at that time, saying, Hear the cases between your brothers, and judge righteously between a man and his brother or the sojourner
with him.
1:17 审判的时候，不可看人的外貌；听讼不可分尊卑，不可怕人的脸面，因为审判是属于神的。若有难断的案件，可以呈到我这里来，我就听审。
You shall not respect persons in judgment; you shall hear the small and the great alike. You shall not fear the face of man, for judgment is God's. And the case
that is too hard for you, you shall bring to me; and I will hear it.
1:18 那时我将你们所当行的事，都吩咐你们了。
And I commanded you at that time all the things that you should do.
1:19 我们照着耶和华我们神所吩咐的，从何烈山起行，经过你们所看见那大而可怕的旷野，往亚摩利人的山地去；我们就到了加低斯巴尼亚。
And we set out from Horeb, and we went through all that great and awesome wilderness, which you saw, on the way to the hill country of the Amorites, as
Jehovah our God commanded us; and we came to Kadesh-barnea.
1:20 我对你们说，你们已经到了耶和华我们神所赐给我们，亚摩利人的山地。
And I said to you, You have come to the hill country of the Amorites, which Jehovah our God is giving us.
1:21 看哪，耶和华你的神已将那地摆在你面前，你要照耶和华你列祖的神所说的，上去得那地为业；不要惧怕，也不要惊惶。
See, Jehovah your God has set the land before you; go up, possess it, as Jehovah the God of your fathers has spoken to you. Do not fear, neither be dismayed.
1:22 你们都就近我来，说，我们要先打发人去，为我们探察那地，将我们上去该走那条路，该进那些城，都回报我们。
Then all of you came near to me and said, Let us send men before us that they may search out the land for us and bring back to us word concerning the way by
which we should go up and the cities into which we should go.
1:23 这话我以为美，就从你们中间选取了十二个人，每支派一个人。
And the thing pleased me, so I took twelve men from among you, one for each tribe.
1:24 于是他们转身上山地去，到了以实各谷，窥探那地。
And they turned and went up into the hill country, and they came to the Valley of Eshcol; and they spied out the and.
1:25 他们手里拿着那地的一些果子，下到我们那里，回报说，耶和华我们的神所赐给我们的是美地。
And in their hands they took some of the fruit of the land, and they brought it down to us. And they brought word back to us and said, It is a good land which
Jehovah our God is giving us.
1:26 你们却不肯上去，竟违背耶和华你们神的话，
Yet you would not go up. Rather you rebelled against the word of Jehovah your God;
183
1:27 在帐棚内发怨言说，耶和华因为恨我们，所以将我们从埃及地领出来，要把我们交在亚摩利人手中，好除灭我们。
And you murmured in your tents and said, Because Jehovah hates us, He has brought us out from the land of Egypt to deliver us into the hands of the Amorites in
order to destroy us.
1:28 我们要上那里去呢？我们的弟兄使我们的心融化，说，那地的民比我们又大又高，城邑又宽大又坚固，高得顶天；我们在那里还看到亚衲人的子孙。
Where shall we go up? Our brothers have made our hearts melt, saying, The people are greater and taller than we; the cities are big and fortified up to heaven;
and furthermore we have seen the children of the Anakim there.
1:29 我就对你们说，不要惊恐，也不要怕他们。
Then I said to you, Do not be terrified, neither be afraid of them.
1:30 在你们前面行的耶和华你们的神必为你们争战，正如祂在埃及，在你们眼前为你们所行的一样，
Jehovah your God, who goes before you, He will fight for you according to all that He did for you in Egypt before your eyes,
1:31 并且在旷野里，你们也曾看见耶和华你们的神，在你们所行的路上背负你们，如同人背负儿子一般，直到你们来到这地方。
And in the wilderness, where you have seen that Jehovah your God carried you, as a man carries his son, in all the way that you went until you came to this place.
1:32 你们虽听了这话，却不信耶和华你们的神；
Yet in spite of this word you did not believe in Jehovah your God,
1:33 祂在路上，在你们前面行，为你们寻找安营的地方；夜间在火柱里，日间在云柱里，指示你们当行的路。
Who went before you in the way, to seek out for you a place for you to camp, in the fire by night to show you by which way you should go and in the cloud by day.
1:34 耶和华听见你们说话的闹声，就发怒，起誓说，
And Jehovah heard the voice of your words, and He became furious and swore, saying,
1:35 这恶世代的人，连一个也不得见我起誓要赐给你们列祖的美地，
Not one of these men, this evil generation, shall by any means see the good land which I have sworn to give to your fathers,
1:36 惟有耶孚尼的儿子迦勒必得看见；我要将他所踏过的地赐给他和他的子孙，因为他专一跟从我耶和华。
Except Caleb the son of Jephunneh; he shall see it. And to him I will give the land on which he has trodden, and to his children, because he has fully followed
Jehovah.
1:37 耶和华为你们的缘故也向我发怒，说，你也必不得进入那地；
With me also Jehovah was angry on your account, saying, You also shall not enter there;
1:38 那伺候你的，嫩的儿子约书亚，必得进入那地；你要勉励他，因为他要使以色列人承受那地。
Joshua the son of Nun, who attends to you, he shall enter there. Strengthen him, for it is he who will cause Israel to inherit it.
1:39 并且你们的孩子，就是你们所说要被掳掠的，和今日不知善恶的儿女，必进入那地。我要将那地赐给他们，他们必得为业。
Moreover your little ones, who you said would be prey, and your children, who this day do not know good and evil, they shall enter there. And to them I will give it,
and they will possess it.
1:40 至于你们，要转回，从通往红海的路往前行，到旷野去。
But as for you, turn and set out into the wilderness by the way that leads to the Red Sea.
1:41 那时，你们回答我说，我们得罪耶和华了，我们情愿照耶和华我们神所吩咐的一切，上去争战。于是你们装束好，各人带着兵器，轻率的上山地去。
Then you answered and said to me, We have sinned against Jehovah; we ourselves will go up and fight according to all that Jehovah our God has commanded
us. And you girded yourselves, every man with his weapons of war, and thought it a light thing to go up to the hill country.
1:42 耶和华对我说，你告诉他们，不要上去争战，因为我不在你们中间，免得你们在仇敌面前被击杀。
And Jehovah said to me, Say to them, You shall not go up and fight, for I am not among you, so that you are not struck down before your enemies.
1:43 我就告诉了你们，你们却不听从，竟违背耶和华的话，擅自上山地去。
So I spoke to you, but you did not listen; rather, you rebelled against the word of Jehovah and went up presumptuously to the hill country.
1:44 住那山地的亚摩利人就出来攻击你们，追赶你们如蜂拥一般；他们在西珥击退你们，直到何珥玛。
And the Amorites who dwell in that hill country came out against you and chased you as bees do; and they beat you back in Seir as far as Hormah.
1:45 你们便回来，在耶和华面前哭号；耶和华却不听你们的声音，也不向你们侧耳。
And you returned and wept before Jehovah; but Jehovah did not listen to your voice nor give ear to you.
1:46 于是你们在加低斯住了许多日子。
So you remained in Kadesh for many days, as many days as you remained.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 2 章
2:1 此后，我们转回，从通往红海的路往前行，到旷野去，是照着耶和华对我说的；我们在西珥山绕行了许多日子。
And we turned and set out for the wilderness by the way that leads to the Red Sea, as Jehovah spoke to me; and we circled Mount Seir for many days.
2:2 耶和华对我说，
Then Jehovah spoke to me, saying,
2:3 你们绕行这山的日子够了，要转向北去。
You have circled this mountain long enough; turn northward,
2:4 你吩咐百姓说，你们弟兄以扫的子孙住在西珥，你们将要经过他们的境界；他们必惧怕你们，所以你们要分外谨慎；
And command the people, saying, You are about to pass through the territory of your brothers the children of Esau, who dwell in Seir; and they will be afraid of
you. Take careful heed to yourselves therefore;
2:5 不可向他们挑衅；他们的地，连脚掌可踏之处，我都不给你们，因我已将西珥山赐给以扫为业。
Do not engage them, for I will not give you any of their land, not even as much as a footstep; for I have given Mount Seir to Esau as a possession.
2:6 你们要用银钱向他们买粮吃，也要用银钱向他们买水喝。
You shall buy food from them with money, that you may eat; and you shall also obtain water from them with money, that you may drink.
2:7 因为耶和华你的神在你手所办的一切事上，已经赐福与你；你走过这大旷野，祂都知道。这四十年，耶和华你的神常与你同在，故此你一无所缺。
For Jehovah your God has blessed you in all your doings; He knows your journeying through this great wilderness. These forty years Jehovah your God has been
with you; you have not lacked a thing.
2:8 于是，我们离了我们弟兄以扫子孙所住的西珥，离开亚拉巴的路，离开以拉他、以旬迦别，转身沿着通往摩押旷野的路前行。
184
So we passed on from our brothers the children of Esau, who dwell in Seir, away from the way of the Arabah, away from Elath and from Ezion-geber; and we
turned and passed on by the way that leads to the wilderness of Moab.
2:9 耶和华对我说，不可扰害摩押人，也不可向他们挑衅，引起争战；他们的地，我不赐给你为业，因我已将亚珥赐给罗得的子孙为业。
And Jehovah said to me, Do not harass Moab, nor engage them in battle, for I will not give you any of their land as a possession; for to the children of Lot I have
given Ar as a possession.
2:10 (先前，有以米人住在那里，这民强大众多，身量高大，像亚衲人一样；
(The Emim dwelt there before that, a people great and numerous and as tall as the Anakim;
2:11 这以米人与亚衲人一样，也算是利乏音人，但摩押人称他们为以米人。
They were considered Rephaim, as were the Anakim, but the Moabites called them Emim.
2:12 先前，何利人也住在西珥，但以扫的子孙将他们赶出，将他们从自己面前除灭，接替他们住在那里，就如以色列人在耶和华赐给他们为业之地所行的
一样。)
The Horites also dwelt in Seir before that, but the children of Esau dispossessed them and destroyed them from before them; and they dwelt there in their place,
as Israel did with the land of their possession, which Jehovah gave to them.)
2:13 现在，起来过撒烈溪。于是我们过了撒烈溪。
Now rise up and cross over the brook Zered. And we crossed over the brook Zered.
2:14 自从我们离开加低斯巴尼亚，到过撒烈溪的时候，共有三十八年，直到那世代的兵丁都从营中灭尽，正如耶和华向他们所起的誓。
And the time that we spent in going from Kadesh-barnea until we crossed over the brook Zered was thirty-eight years, until all the generation of the men of war
was consumed from the midst of the camp, as Jehovah had sworn to them.
2:15 耶和华的手也攻击他们，将他们从营中清除，直到灭尽。
Moreover the hand of Jehovah was against them to purge them from the midst of the camp until they were consumed.
2:16 兵丁从民中都灭尽死亡以后，
So when all the men of war were consumed from the midst of the people and dead,
2:17 耶和华对我说，
Then Jehovah spoke to me, saying,
2:18 你今天要从摩押的境界亚珥经过。
You are to pass through the territory of Moab, through Ar, today.
2:19 你走近亚扪人之地，不可扰害他们，也不可向他们挑衅；亚扪人的地，我不赐给你们为业，因我已将那地赐给罗得的子孙为业。
And when you come near to the children of Ammon, do not harass them, nor engage them, for I will not give any of the land of the children of Ammon to you as
a possession; for I have given it to the children of Lot as a possession.
2:20 (那地也算为利乏音人之地，先前利乏音人住在那里，亚扪人称他们为散送冥。
(It was also considered a land of Rephaim; Rephaim formerly dwelt in it. But the Ammonites call them Zamzummim,
2:21 那民强大众多，身量高大，像亚衲人一样；但耶和华从亚扪人面前除灭他们，亚扪人就将他们赶出，接替他们住在那里。
A people great and numerous and as tall as the Anakim. Yet Jehovah destroyed them from before them, and they dispossessed them and dwelt there in their
place;
2:22 正如耶和华从前为住西珥的以扫子孙，将何利人从他们面前除灭一样。他们将何利人赶出、接替他们住在那里，直到今日。
As He did for the children of Esau, who dwell in Seir, when He destroyed the Horites from before them. And they dispossessed them and have dwelt there in their
place to this day.
2:23 从迦斐托出来的迦斐托人，将先前住在乡村直到迦萨的亚卫人除灭，接替他们住在那里。)
And the Avvim, who dwell in the villages as far as Gaza, the Caphtorim, who came from Caphtor, destroyed them and dwelt there in their place.)
2:24 你们起身往前行，过亚嫩谷；看哪，我已将亚摩利人希实本王西宏和他的地交在你手中；你要去得他的地，与他争战。
Rise up; set out and cross over the valley of the Arnon. See, I have given into your hand Sihon the Amorite, the king of Heshbon, and his land. Begin to possess it,
and engage him in battle.
2:25 从今日起，我要使天下万民听见你的名声都惊恐惧怕，且因你发颤战抖。
Today I will begin to put the dread and fear of you upon the peoples under all heaven, who will hear the report of you and will tremble and quake because of you.
2:26 我从基底莫的旷野差遣使者去见希实本王西宏，用和睦的话说，
Then I sent messengers from the wilderness of Kedemoth to Sihon the king of Heshbon with words of peace, saying,
2:27 求你让我从你的地经过；我只走大道，不偏左右。
Let me pass through your land. Only on the road I will go; I will not turn to the right or to the left.
2:28 你可以卖粮给我吃，也可以卖水给我喝，只要让我步行过去，
You will sell me food for money, that I may eat; and you will give me water for money, that I may drink; only let me pass through on foot -
2:29 就如住西珥的以扫子孙和住亚珥的摩押人待我一样，等我过了约但河，好进入耶和华我们神所赐给我们的地。
As the children of Esau, who dwell in Seir, and the Moabites, who dwell in Ar, did for me-until I cross over the Jordan into the land which Jehovah our God is
giving us.
2:30 但希实本王西宏不让我们从他那里经过；因为耶和华你的神使他灵刚硬、心顽梗，为要将他交在你手中，像今日一样。
But Sihon the king of Heshbon would not let us pass through his land, for Jehovah your God hardened his spirit and made his heart obstinate for the purpose of
delivering him into your hand, as he is today.
2:31 耶和华对我说，看哪，从现在起，我要将西宏和他的地交给你；你要得他的地为业。
And Jehovah said to me, See, I have begun to deliver Sihon and his land up before you. Begin to possess it that you may occupy his land.
2:32 那时，西宏和他的众民出来攻击我们，在雅杂与我们交战。
Then Sihon came out to meet us, he and all his people, for battle at Jahaz.
2:33 耶和华我们的神将他交给我们，我们就把他和他的儿子，并他的众民，都击杀了。
And Jehovah our God delivered him up before us, and we slew him and his sons and all his people.
2:34 那时，我们夺了他的一切城邑，将各城连男带女和孩子，尽都毁灭，没有留下一个。
And we captured all his cities at that time, and utterly destroyed every city-men, women, and children; we left no survivors.
2:35 惟有牲畜和所夺各城的财物，我们都取为自己的掠物。
We took only the cattle as our plunder, as well as the spoil of the cities which we captured.
185
2:36 从亚嫩谷边的亚罗珥和谷中的城，直到基列，没有一座城高得使我们不能攻取的；耶和华我们的神将这些城都交给我们了。
From Aroer, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, and from the city which is in the valley, even to Gilead, there was not a town too high for us; Jehovah
our God delivered them all up before us.
2:37 惟有亚扪人之地，就是雅博河沿岸的地并山地的城邑，以及耶和华我们神所吩咐不可去的地方，你都没有挨近。
But you did not go near the land of the children of Ammon, all along the river Jabbok, nor the cities of the hill country, nor any place that Jehovah our God
commanded us not to.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 3 章
3:1 以后我们转回，由通往巴珊的路上去；巴珊王噩和他的众民都出来，在以得来与我们交战。
Then we turned and went up on the way that leads to Bashan; and Og the king of Bashan came out to meet us, he and all his people, for battle at Edrei.
3:2 耶和华对我说，不要怕他，因我已将他和他的众民，并他的地，都交在你手中；你要对待他像对待住希实本之亚摩利人的王西宏一般。
But Jehovah said to me, Do not fear him, for I have given him and all his people and his land into your hand; and you shall do to him as you did to Sihon the king
of the Amorites, who was dwelling in Heshbon.
3:3 于是耶和华我们的神也将巴珊王噩和他的众民，都交在我们手中；我们杀了他们，没有留下一个。
And Jehovah our God also gave Og the king of Bashan, as well as all his people, into our hand; and we slew them until there was no survivor left.
3:4 那时我们夺了他一切的城；在亚珥歌伯的全境，就是巴珊王噩的国，共有六十座城，没有一座不被我们所夺。
And we captured all his cities at that time; there was not a town that we did not take from them: sixty cities, all the region of Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
3:5 这些城都有坚固的高墙，有门有闩；此外还有许多无城墙的村庄。
All of these were cities fortified with high walls, gates, and bars, besides a great many rural villages.
3:6 我们将这些尽都毁灭，像从前对待希实本王西宏一般，将各城连男带女和孩子，尽都毁灭；
And we utterly destroyed them as we had done to Sihon the king of Heshbon, utterly destroying every city-men, women, and children.
3:7 惟有一切牲畜和城中的财物，我们都取为自己的掠物。
But all the cattle and the spoil of the cities we took as our plunder.
3:8 那时我们从约但河东亚摩利人的两个王手中，将亚嫩谷直到黑门山之地都夺过来，
So at that time we took the land from the hand of the two kings of the Amorites who were across the Jordan, from the valley of the Arnon to Mount Hermon
3:9 (这黑门山，西顿人称为西连，亚摩利人称为示尼珥，)
(The Sidonians call Hermon Sirion, and the Amorites call it Senir),
3:10 就是夺了高原的各城、基列全地、巴珊全地，直到撒迦和以得来，都是巴珊王噩国内的城。
All the cities of the Plateau and all Gilead and all Bashan, as far as Salcah and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
3:11 (巴珊王噩是利乏音人所余剩仅存的。他的床是铁的，长九肘，宽四肘，都是以人肘为度；现今岂不是在亚扪人的拉巴么？)
(For only Og the king of Bashan was left of the remnant of the Rephaim. His bedstead, a bedstead of iron, is indeed now in Rabbah of the children of Ammon. Its
length is nine cubits and its width four cubits, according to the cubit of a man.)
3:12 那时我们得了这地。从亚嫩谷边的亚罗珥起，我将基列山地的一半，并其中的城，都给了流便人和迦得人。
So we possessed this land at that time. From Aroer, which is by the valley of the Arnon, and half the hill country of Gilead and its cities, I gave to the Reubenites
and to the Gadites.
3:13 其余的基列地和巴珊全地，就是噩王的国，我给了玛拿西半支派。(亚珥歌伯全境乃是巴珊全地，称为利乏音人之地。
And the rest of Gilead and all Bashan, the kingdom of Og, I gave to the half-tribe of Manasseh, all the region of Argob. (All that portion of Bashan is called the
land of the Rephaim.
3:14 玛拿西的子孙睚珥占了亚珥歌伯全境，直到基述人和玛迦人的交界，就按自己的名，称这巴珊地为哈倭特睚珥，直到今日。)
Jair the son of Manasseh took all the region of Argob as far as the border of the Geshurites and the Maacathites; and he called it, that is, Bashan, after his own
name, Havvoth-jair, as it is to this day.)
3:15 我又将基列给了玛吉。
And to Machir I gave Gilead.
3:16 从基列到亚嫩谷，以谷中为界，直到亚扪人的边界雅博河，我给了流便人和迦得人；
And to the Reubenites and to the Gadites I gave the region from Gilead even as far as the valley of the Arnon, the middle of the valley being the border, as far as
the river Jabbok, the border of the children of Ammon;
3:17 又将亚拉巴，以约但河为界，从基尼烈直到亚拉巴海，就是盐海，并毗斯迦山根，东边之地，都给了他们。
And the Arabah, with the Jordan as a border, from Chinnereth even as far as the sea of the Arabah, the Salt Sea, at the foot of the slopes of Pisgah on the east.
3:18 那时我嘱咐你们说，耶和华你们的神已将这地赐给你们为业；所有的勇士都要带着兵器，在你们的弟兄以色列人前面过去。
And I charged you at that time, saying, Jehovah your God has given you this land that you may possess it; all the men of valor shall cross over armed before your
brothers, the children of Israel.
3:19 但你们的妻子、孩子、牲畜，(我知道你们有许多的牲畜，)可以住在我所赐给你们的各城，
Only your wives and your little ones and your livestock-I know that you have vast livestock-shall remain in your cities, which I have given you,
3:20 等到耶和华使你们的弟兄像你们一样得享安息，并且在约但河那边，得着耶和华你们神所赐给他们的地，你们各人才可以回到我所赐给你们为业之地。
Until Jehovah gives rest to your brothers as He has to you, and they also possess the land which Jehovah your God is giving them across the Jordan, and you
return, each man to his possession which I have given you.
3:21 那时我吩咐约书亚说，你亲眼看见了耶和华你神向这二王所行的一切；耶和华也必向你过河所要去的各国照样行。
And I commanded Joshua at that time, saying, Yours are the eyes that have seen all that Jehovah your God has done to these two kings; so will Jehovah your
God do to all the kingdoms into which you are about to cross over.
3:22 你不要怕他们，因为是耶和华你的神在为你争战。
Do not fear them, for it is Jehovah your God who is fighting for you.
3:23 那时我恳求耶和华说，
And I pleaded with Jehovah at that time, saying,
3:24 主耶和华阿，你已将你的伟大和你大能的手，显给仆人看。在天上，在地上，有什么神能像你行事，像你有大能的作为呢？
186
O Lord Jehovah, You have begun to show Your servant Your greatness and Your mighty hand. For what god is there in heaven or on earth who can do things like
what You have done and things like Your mighty deeds?
3:25 求你让我过去，看约但河那边的美地，就是那佳美的山地和利巴嫩。
Let me please cross over and see the good land that is across the Jordan, this fine hill country and Lebanon.
3:26 但耶和华因你们的缘故向我发怒，不应允我，对我说，够了！你不要向我再题这事。
But Jehovah was infuriated with me on your account and did not listen to me. And Jehovah said to me, Enough! Speak no more to Me about this matter.
3:27 你且上毗斯迦山顶去，向西、向北、向南、向东，举目观看，因为你必不能过这约但河。
Go up to the top of Pisgah; and lift up your eyes to the west and to the north and to the south and to the east; and see it with your eyes, for you shall not cross
over this Jordan.
3:28 你却要嘱咐约书亚，勉励他，使他胆壮；因为他必在这百姓前面过去，使他们承受你所要观看之地。
But charge Joshua, and strengthen and encourage him, for it is he who will cross over before this people and cause them to inherit the land which you will see.
3:29 于是我们住在伯毗珥对面的谷中。
And we remained in the valley opposite Beth-peor.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 4 章
4:1 以色列人哪，现在你们要听我所教训你们遵行的律例和典章，好叫你们存活，得以进入耶和华你们列祖之神所赐给你们的地，承受为业。
And now, O Israel, listen to the statutes and the judgments which I am teaching you to do, in order that you may live and go in and possess the land which
Jehovah, the God of your fathers, is giving you.
4:2 我所吩咐你们的话，你们不可加添，也不可删减，好叫你们遵守我所吩咐的，就是耶和华你们神的命令。
You shall not add to the word which I am commanding you, nor shall you take away from it, that you may keep the commandments of Jehovah your God, which I
am commanding you.
4:3 耶和华因巴力毗珥的事所行的，你们亲眼看见了；凡随从巴力毗珥的人，耶和华你们的神都从你们中间除灭了。
Yours are the eyes that have seen that which Jehovah has done in Baal-peor; for all the men who went after Baal-peor, Jehovah your God has destroyed from
your midst.
4:4 惟有你们紧联于耶和华你们神的人，今日全都存活。
But you who joined yourselves to Jehovah your God are alive, all of you, today.
4:5 看哪，我照着耶和华我神所吩咐的，将律例和典章教训你们，使你们在所要进去得为业的地上遵行。
See, I have taught you statutes and judgments, as Jehovah my God commanded me, so that you would do them within the land which you are going in to
possess.
4:6 所以你们要谨守遵行，因为这就是你们在万民眼中的智慧和精明；他们听见这一切律例，必说，这大国的人真是智慧精明。
Keep and do them therefore; for this will be your wisdom and prudence in the sight of the peoples who hear all these statutes and say, Surely this great nation is
a wise and prudent people.
4:7 那一大国的人有神与他们相近，像耶和华我们的神，在我们呼求祂的时候与我们相近？
For what great nation is there that has a god so near to it as Jehovah our God is whenever we call upon Him?
4:8 又那一大国的人有这样公义的律例和典章，像我今日在你们面前所颁赐的这一切律法？
And what great nation is there that has statutes and judgments so righteous as all this law which I am setting before you today?
4:9 你只要谨慎，殷勤护卫你的魂，免得忘记你亲眼所看见的事，又免得这些事在你一生的日子离开你的心；总要传给你的子子孙孙。
But be careful and guard your soul diligently, so that you do not forget the things which your eyes have seen and they do not depart from your heart all the days
of your life; rather, make them known to your children and to your grandchildren.
4:10 特别不可忘记你在何烈山站在耶和华你神面前的那日，那时耶和华对我说，你招聚百姓到我这里，我要叫他们听见我的话，使他们在地上活着的日子，
可以学习敬畏我，又可以教训自己的儿女这样行。
Especially do not forget the day when you stood before Jehovah your God at Horeb, when Jehovah said to me, Gather the people to Me, and I will let them hear
My words, so that they may learn to fear Me all the days that they live upon the earth and may teach their children as much.
4:11 那时你们近前来，站在山下；山上有火焰冲天，并有黑暗、密云、幽暗。
And you came near and stood at the foot of the mountain; and the mountain was burning with fire up into the heart of heaven, with darkness, cloud, and deep
darkness there .
4:12 耶和华从火中对你们说话，你们听见了声音，却没有看见形像；只有声音而已。
And Jehovah spoke to you from the midst of the fire. The sound of words could you hear, but no form could you see; there was only a voice.
4:13 祂将所吩咐你们遵行的约，就是十句话，向你们宣示，并将这些话写在两块石版上。
And He declared to you His covenant, which He commanded you to do, ten words; and He wrote them upon two tablets of stone.
4:14 那时耶和华又吩咐我将律例和典章教训你们，使你们在所要过去得为业的地上遵行。
And Jehovah commanded me at that time to teach you statutes and judgments for you to do in the land which you are about to cross over into to possess.
4:15 所以你们要殷勤护卫你们的魂；因为耶和华在何烈山，从火中对你们说话的那日，你们没有看见什么形像。
So take careful heed to your souls, for you did not see any form at all on the day when Jehovah spoke to you at Horeb from the midst of the fire,
4:16 恐怕你们败坏自己，为自己雕制偶像，就是任何形状的像，无论是男像或女像，
So that you do not spoil yourselves and make for yourselves an idol, a form of any image, a figure of male or female,
4:17 或地上走兽的像，或空中飞鸟的像，
A figure of any animal which is on the earth, a figure of any winged bird which flies in the sky,
4:18 或地上爬物的像，或地底下水中鱼的像。
A figure of anything that crawls on the ground, a figure of any fish that is in the water under the earth;
4:19 又恐怕你向天举目观看，见耶和华你的神为天下万民所摆列的日月星，就是天上的万象，便被勾引，去敬拜事奉它们。
And take heed that, when you lift up your eyes to the sky and see the sun and the moon and the stars, all the host of heaven, you are not drawn away in worship
to them and that you do not serve them, which Jehovah your God has assigned to all the peoples under all heaven.
4:20 耶和华将你们从埃及领出来，脱离铁炉，要你们作祂的子民，作祂的产业，像今日一样。
But Jehovah has taken you and brought you forth from the iron furnace, from Egypt, that you would be to Him a people for His inheritance, as you are this day.
187
4:21 耶和华又因你们的缘故向我发怒，起誓必不让我过约但河，也不让我进入耶和华你神所赐你为业的那美地。
But Jehovah was angry with me on your account and swore that I would not cross over the Jordan and that I would not enter the good land which Jehovah your
God is giving you as an inheritance.
4:22 我只得死在这地，不能过约但河；但你们必要过去得那美地。
For I am to die in this land; I am not to cross over the Jordan. But you are crossing over and you will possess this good land.
4:23 你们要谨慎，免得忘记耶和华你们神与你们所立的约，为自己雕制偶像，就是耶和华你神所禁止你制造的任何形像；
Take heed to yourselves that you do not forget the covenant of Jehovah your God, which He has made with you, and make for yourselves an idol, the form of
anything, which Jehovah your God has forbidden you to make .
4:24 因为耶和华你的神乃是烈火，是忌邪的神。
For Jehovah your God is a consuming fire, a jealous God.
4:25 你们在那地生子生孙，住得久了，就雕制偶像，仿佛什么形像，败坏了自己，行耶和华你神眼中看为恶的事，惹祂发怒；
When you have brought forth children and grandchildren and have languished in the land, and you have spoiled yourselves by making an idol, the form of
anything, and have done that which is evil in the sight of Jehovah your God so as to anger Him;
4:26 我今日呼唤天地向你们作证，你们必在过约但河得为业的地上速速灭尽；你们在那地上的日子不能长久，你们必尽都毁灭。
I call heaven and earth to witness against you today that surely you will soon perish from off the land into which you are crossing over the Jordan to possess; you
will not extend your days upon it, but you will be utterly destroyed.
4:27 耶和华必使你们分散在万民中；在祂所领你们到的列国中，你们余剩的人数必稀少。
And Jehovah will scatter you among the peoples, and you will be left few in number among the nations to which Jehovah will drive you.
4:28 在那里你们必事奉人手所造的神，那不过是木头和石头，是不能看，不能听，不能吃，不能闻的。
And there you will serve gods which are the work of human hands, mere wood and stone, which do not see nor hear nor eat nor smell.
4:29 但你们在那里必寻求耶和华你的神；你若全心、全魂寻求祂，就必寻见。
And from there you will seek Jehovah your God, and you will find Him if you search for Him with all your heart and with all your soul.
4:30 日后你遭遇患难，这一切事临到你的时候，你必归回耶和华你的神，听从祂的话。
When you are in distress and all these things happen to you, when you are in the last days, you will return to Jehovah your God and listen to His voice.
4:31 因为耶和华你的神是有怜恤的神；祂必不撇下你，不灭绝你，也不忘记祂起誓与你列祖所立的约。
For Jehovah your God is a compassionate God; He will not fail you nor let you perish nor forget the covenant with your fathers which He swore to them.
4:32 你且查问，在你以前的日子，自从神造人在地上以来，从天这边到天那边，这样的大事何曾有过，何曾听过？
For ask now regarding the former days, which were before you, since the day that God created man upon the earth, and ask from one end of heaven to the other,
Has anything as great as this ever happened, or has anything like this ever been heard of?
4:33 曾有何民听见神在火中说话的声音，像你听见还能存活？
Has a people ever heard the voice of God speaking from the midst of the fire, as you have heard, and lived?
4:34 神何曾用试验，用神迹和奇事，用争战、大能的手、伸出来的膀臂、并大而可畏的事，试图从别的国中，将一国的民领出来归祂自己，像耶和华你们
的神在埃及，在你们眼前为你们所行的一切？
Has God ever ventured to go and take to Himself a nation from the midst of another nation by trials, by signs and wonders, and by war and a mighty hand and
an outstretched arm, and by great terrors, like all that Jehovah your God did for you in Egypt before your eyes?
4:35 这些显给你看，是要使你知道，惟有耶和华是神，除祂以外，再无别神。
You were shown these things that you might know that it is Jehovah who is God; there is no other besides Him.
4:36 祂从天上使你听见祂的声音，为要管教你，又在地上使你看见祂的烈火，并且听见祂从火中所说的话。
From heaven He let you hear His voice that He might discipline you, and upon the earth He showed you His great fire, and His words you heard from the midst of
the fire.
4:37 因祂爱你的列祖，所以拣选他们的后裔，用祂的同在和大能领你出了埃及，
And because He loved your fathers, He chose their seed after them and brought you out by His presence, by His great power, from Egypt,
4:38 要将比你大、比你强的国民从你面前赶出，领你进去，将他们的地赐你为业，像今日一样。
Driving out from before you nations greater and mightier than you, to bring you in and give you their land as an inheritance, as it is today.
4:39 所以，今日你要知道，也要记在心上，上天下地惟有耶和华是神，除祂以外，再无别神。
Know therefore today and bring it to heart that Jehovah is God in heaven above and upon the earth below; there is no other.
4:40 我今日将祂的律例和诫命吩咐你，你要遵守，使你和你的子孙可以得福，并使你的日子在耶和华你神所赐的地上，得以长久。
Therefore keep His statutes and His commandments, which I am commanding you today, that it may go well with you and with your children after you, so that
you may extend your days upon the land which Jehovah your God is giving you forever.
4:41 那时，摩西在约但河东，向日出之地，分出三座城，
Then Moses set apart three cities across the Jordan toward the rising of the sun,
4:42 使那素无仇恨、无意中杀了人的，可以逃到这三城之中的一座城，就得存活：
That the manslayer might flee there, who slays his neighbor without intent and did not hate him previously, and in fleeing to one of these cities he might live:
4:43 在旷野高原之地的比悉属流便人，基列的拉末属迦得人，巴珊的哥兰属玛拿西人。
Bezer in the wilderness, in the land of the Plateau, belonging to the Reubenites; and Ramoth in Gilead, belonging to the Gadites; and Golan in Bashan, belonging
to the Manassites.
4:44 这是摩西在以色列人面前所陈明的律法，
And this is the law which Moses set before the children of Israel;
4:45 就是摩西在以色列人出埃及后对他们讲说的法度、律例和典章，
These are the testimonies and the statutes and the judgments which Moses spoke to the children of Israel when they had gone out from Egypt,
4:46 在约但河东伯毗珥对面的谷中，在住希实本之亚摩利人的王西宏之地；这西宏是摩西和以色列人出埃及后所击杀的。
Across the Jordan, in the valley opposite Beth-peor, in the land of Sihon the king of the Amorites, who dwelt in Heshbon, whom Moses and the children of Israel
slew when they had gone out from Egypt.
4:47 他们得了他的地，又得了巴珊王噩的地，就是亚摩利人的两个王，在约但河东向日出之地，
And they possessed his land and the land of Og the king of Bashan, the two kings of the Amorites, who were across the Jordan toward the rising of the sun,
4:48 从亚嫩谷边的亚罗珥，直到西连山，就是黑门山。
188
From Aroer, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, even unto Mount Sirion, that is, Hermon,
4:49 还有约但河东的全亚拉巴，直到亚拉巴海，靠近毗斯迦山根。
And all the Arabah across the Jordan on the east even to the sea of the Arabah at the foot of the slopes of Pisgah.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 5 章
5:1 摩西将以色列众人召了来，对他们说，以色列人哪，我今日讲给你们听的律例和典章，你们要听，并要学习，谨守遵行。
And Moses called all Israel and said to them, Hear, O Israel, the statutes and the judgments which I am speaking in your hearing today, and learn them and
keep them, so that you may do them.
5:2 耶和华我们的神在何烈山与我们立约。
Jehovah our God made a covenant with us at Horeb.
5:3 这约，耶和华不是与我们列祖立的，乃是与我们今日所有在这里存活之人立的。
Not with our fathers did Jehovah make this covenant, but with us, we who are all here alive today.
5:4 耶和华在山上，从火中，面对面与你们说话；
Face to face Jehovah spoke with you on the mountain from the midst of the fire -
5:5 那时我站在耶和华和你们之间，将耶和华的话向你们宣示；因为你们惧怕那火，没有上山；耶和华说，
I was standing between Jehovah and you at that time to declare to you the word of Jehovah, for you were afraid because of the fire and did not go up to the
mountain-saying,
5:6 我是耶和华你的神，曾将你从埃及地，从为奴之家领出来。
I am Jehovah your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the slave house;
5:7 除我以外，你不可有别的神。
You shall have no other gods before Me.
5:8 不可为自己雕制偶像，也不可雕制任何上天、下地、和地底下水中之物的像。
You shall not make for yourself an idol, the form of anything that is in heaven above or on the earth beneath or in the water beneath the earth.
5:9 不可跪拜那些像，也不可事奉它们；因为我耶和华你的神是忌邪的神；恨我的，我必追讨他的罪孽，自父及子，直到三四代；
You shall not bow down to them, and you shall not serve them; for I, Jehovah your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children
and to the third and fourth generations of those who hate Me,
5:10 爱我、守我诫命的，我必向他们施慈爱，直到千代。
Yet showing lovingkindness to thousands of generations of those who love Me and keep My commandments.
5:11 不可妄称耶和华你神的名；因为妄称耶和华名的，耶和华必不以他为无罪。
You shall not take the name of Jehovah your God in vain, for Jehovah will not hold guiltless him who takes His name in vain.
5:12 当照耶和华你神所吩咐的，守安息日，将这日分别为圣。
Keep the Sabbath day so as to sanctify it, as Jehovah your God has commanded you.
5:13 六日要劳碌作你一切的工，
Six days you shall labor and do all your work,
5:14 但第七日是向耶和华你神当守的安息日；这一日你和你的儿子、女儿、仆人、婢女、牛、驴、牲畜、并你城里的寄居者，无论何工都不可作，使你的
仆人、婢女可以和你一样安息。
But the seventh day is a Sabbath to Jehovah your God; you shall not do any work, you nor your son nor your daughter nor your male servant nor your female
servant nor your ox nor your donkey nor any of your cattle nor the sojourner with you who is within your gates, so that your male servant and your female servant
may rest as you do.
5:15 你要记念你在埃及地作过奴仆，耶和华你神用大能的手和伸出来的膀臂，将你从那里领出来；因此，耶和华你的神吩咐你守安息日。
And you shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt and that Jehovah your God brought you out from there with a mighty hand and an
outstretched arm; hence, Jehovah your God commanded you to hold the Sabbath day.
5:16 当照耶和华你神所吩咐的孝敬父母，使你的日子在耶和华你神所赐你的地上，得以长久，并使你可以得福。
Honor your father and your mother, as Jehovah your God has commanded you, that your days may be extended and that it may be well with you upon the land
which Jehovah your God is giving you.
5:17 不可杀人。
You shall not kill;
5:18 不可奸淫。
Neither shall you commit adultery;
5:19 不可偷盗。
Neither shall you steal;
5:20 不可作虚谎的见证陷害邻舍。
Neither shall you testify as a vain witness against your neighbor;
5:21 不可贪爱邻舍的妻子；也不可贪图邻舍的房屋、田地、仆人、婢女、牛、驴、并他一切所有的。
Neither shall you desire your neighbor's wife, nor shall you covet your neighbor's house, his field, or his male servant or his female servant, his ox or his donkey,
or anything that belongs to your neighbor.
5:22 这些话是耶和华在山上，从火中、云中、幽暗中，大声对你们全会众说的；此外祂没有加添别的话。祂把这些话写在两块石版上，交给了我。
These words Jehovah spoke to all your congregation on the mountain from the midst of the fire, the cloud, and the deep darkness, with a great voice; and He
added no more. And He wrote them upon two tablets of stone and gave them to me.
5:23 那时火焰烧山，你们听见从黑暗中出来的声音；你们支派中所有的首领和长老，都来就近我，
And when you heard the voice from the midst of the darkness, while the mountain burned with fire, you came near to me, all the heads of your tribes and your
elders,
5:24 说，看哪，耶和华我们神将祂的荣光和祂的伟大显给我们看，我们又听见祂的声音从火中出来；今日我们得见神与人说话，人还存活。
And said, Jehovah our God has just shown us His glory and His greatness, and His voice we have heard from the midst of the fire; today we have seen that God
speaks with man and yet he lives.
189
5:25 现在这大火将要烧灭我们，我们何必冒死呢？我们若再听见耶和华我们神的声音，就必死亡。
Therefore why should we die now? For this great fire will consume us. If we hear the voice of Jehovah our God any longer, we will die.
5:26 凡有血肉的，曾有何人听见活神从火中说话的声音，像我们听见还能存活？
For who is there among all flesh who has heard the voice of the living God speaking from the midst of the fire, as we have, and has lived?
5:27 求你近前去，听耶和华我们神所要说的一切话，将祂对你说的话都告诉我们，我们就听从遵行。
You go near and hear all that Jehovah our God says; then you will speak to us all that Jehovah our God speaks to you, and we will hear and do.
5:28 你们对我说话的时候，耶和华听见了你们说话的声音；耶和华对我说，这百姓对你说话的声音，我听见了；他们所说的都好。
And Jehovah heard the sound of your words while you spoke to me; and Jehovah said to me, I have heard the sound of the words of this people which they have
spoken to you; they have done well in all that they have spoken.
5:29 惟愿他们常存这样的心，敬畏我，遵守我的一切诫命，使他们和他们的子孙永远得福。
Oh that this heart of theirs would be in them always to fear Me and keep all My commandments so that it may go well with them and with their children forever!
5:30 你去对他们说，你们回帐棚去罢。
Go, say to them, Return to your tents.
5:31 至于你，要站在我这里，我要将一切诫命、律例和典章告诉你；你要教训他们，使他们在我赐他们为业的地上遵行。
But you, stand here by Me that I may speak to you the whole commandment, and the statutes and the judgments, which you will teach them to do in the land
which I am giving them to possess.
5:32 所以你们要照耶和华你们神所吩咐的，谨守遵行，不可偏离左右。
Keep them therefore so that you may do them, even as Jehovah your God has commanded you; you shall not turn aside to the right or to the left.
5:33 你们要行耶和华你们神所吩咐你们行的一切道路，使你们可以存活，得福，并使你们的日子在所要得为业的地上，得以长久。
You shall walk in all the way that Jehovah your God has commanded you, so that you may live and that it may go well with you and that you may extend your
days in the land which you will possess.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 6 章
6:1 这是耶和华你们神吩咐我教训你们的诫命、律例和典章，使你们在所要过去得为业的地上遵行；
Now this is the commandment, the statutes and the judgments, which Jehovah your God has commanded me to teach you, that you may do them in the land
into which you are crossing over to possess;
6:2 好叫你和你的子子孙孙，一生的日子敬畏耶和华你的神，谨守祂的一切律例和诫命，就是我所吩咐你的，使你的日子得以长久。
That you may fear Jehovah your God and keep all His statutes and His commandments, which I am commanding you, you and your son and your grandson, all
the days of your life; and that your days may be extended.
6:3 以色列阿，你要听，要谨守遵行，使你在流奶与蜜之地可以得福，人数极其增多，正如耶和华你列祖的神所应许你的。
Therefore hear, O Israel, and be certain to do it, that it may go well with you and that you may be greatly increased, in a land flowing with milk and honey, even
as Jehovah, the God of your fathers, promised you.
6:4 以色列阿，你要听，耶和华是我们的神；耶和华是独一的。
Hear, O Israel, Jehovah is our God; Jehovah is one.
6:5 你要全心、全魂、全力，爱耶和华你的神。
And you shall love Jehovah your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might.
6:6 我今日所吩咐你的这些话，要放在心上；
And these words, which I command you today, shall be upon your heart;
6:7 也要殷勤教训你的儿女，无论你坐在家里，行在路上，躺下，起来，都要谈论。
And you shall repeat them to your children, and speak about them when you sit in your house and when you journey on the way, and when you lie down and
when you rise up;
6:8 你也要将这些话系在手上为记号，戴在额上为头带；
And you shall bind them on your hand as a sign, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes;
6:9 又要写在你房屋的门框上，并你的城门上。
And you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates.
6:10 耶和华你的神，领你进祂向你列祖亚伯拉罕、以撒、雅各起誓要赐给你的地；那里有又大又美的城邑，非你所建造的；
And when Jehovah your God brings you into the land which He swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give you great and fine cities that
you did not build,
6:11 有装满各样美物的房屋，非你所装满的；有凿成的水井，非你所凿成的；还有葡萄园和橄榄园，非你所栽种的；你吃了而且饱足；
And houses full of every good thing that you did not fill, and hewn cisterns that you did not hew, vineyards and olive groves that you did not plant, and you have
eaten and are satisfied;
6:12 那时你要谨慎，免得你忘记将你从埃及地，从为奴之家领出来的耶和华。
Be careful that you do not forget Jehovah who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the slave house.
6:13 你要敬畏耶和华你的神，事奉祂，指着祂的名起誓。
It is Jehovah your God whom you shall fear, and Him whom you shall serve; and it is by His name only that you shall swear.
6:14 不可随从别神，就是你们四围众民的神，
You shall not go after other gods, any of the gods of the peoples who surround you -
6:15 因为在你们中间耶和华你的神是忌邪的神；惟恐耶和华你神的怒气向你发作，就把你从地面上除灭。
For Jehovah your God is a jealous God in the midst of you. Otherwise the anger of Jehovah your God will be kindled against you, and He will destroy you from off
the face of the earth.
6:16 你们不可试探耶和华你们的神，像你们在玛撒试探祂一样。
You shall not test Jehovah your God, as you tested Him at Massah.
6:17 要留意遵守耶和华你们神所吩咐的诫命、法度和律例。
You shall diligently keep the commandments of Jehovah your God and His testimonies and His statutes, which He has commanded you.
6:18 耶和华眼中看为正、看为善的，你都要遵行，使你得福，并可以进去得耶和华向你列祖起誓应许的那美地，
190
And you shall do that which is right and good in the sight of Jehovah so that it may go well with you and you may enter and possess the good land, concerning
which Jehovah swore to your fathers
6:19 照耶和华所说的，从你面前撵出你的一切仇敌。
To drive out all your enemies from before you, as Jehovah has spoken.
6:20 日后，你的儿子问你说，耶和华我们神吩咐你们的这些法度、律例和典章是什么意思？
When your son asks you in the future, saying, What is the significance of the testimonies and the statutes and the judgments that Jehovah our God commanded
you?
6:21 你就告诉你的儿子说，我们在埃及作过法老的奴仆；耶和华用大能的手将我们从埃及领出来，
Then you will say to your son, We were Pharaoh's slaves in Egypt, and Jehovah brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand.
6:22 在我们眼前，将极大、极重的神迹和奇事，施行在埃及，在法老并他全家的身上，
And Jehovah put forth before our eyes great and grievous signs and wonders in Egypt against Pharaoh and all his house.
6:23 将我们从那里领出来，要领我们进入祂向我们列祖起誓应许之地，把这地赐给我们。
Then He brought us out from there in order to bring us in, that He might give us the land which He swore to our fathers.
6:24 耶和华吩咐我们遵行这一切律例，敬畏耶和华我们的神，使我们常常得福，并蒙祂保全我们的生命，像今日一样。
And Jehovah commanded us to do all these statutes so that we would fear Jehovah our God for our good always and He would preserve us alive, as we are this
day.
6:25 我们若在耶和华我们的神面前，照祂所吩咐我们的，谨守遵行这一切诫命，这就是我们的义了。
And it will be righteousness to us if we are certain to do all this commandment before Jehovah our God, as He commanded us.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 7 章
7:1 耶和华你神领你进入要得为业之地，从你面前除掉许多国民，就是赫人、革迦撒人、亚摩利人、迦南人、比利洗人、希未人、耶布斯人，共七国的民，
都比你多、比你强。
When Jehovah your God brings you into the land which you are about to enter to possess, and clears away many nations from before you-the Hittites, the
Girgashites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, the Jebusites, seven nations more numerous and mightier than you -
7:2 耶和华你神将他们交给你击杀，那时你要把他们灭绝净尽，不可与他们立约，也不可恩待他们。
And Jehovah your God delivers them up before you and you defeat them, you shall utterly destroy them; you shall make no covenant with them, nor shall you
show them any favor.
7:3 不可与他们结亲：不可将你的女儿嫁给他们的儿子，也不可为你的儿子娶他们的女儿；
And you shall not make marriage alliances with them: Your daughters you shall not give to their sons, and their daughters you shall not take for your sons;
7:4 因为他们必使你儿子转离不跟从我，去事奉别神，以致耶和华的怒气向你们发作，就速速的将你们灭绝。
For they will draw your sons away from following after Me to serve other gods, and the anger of Jehovah will burn against you and He will quickly destroy you.
7:5 你们却要这样待他们：拆毁他们的祭坛，打碎他们的柱像，砍下他们的木像，用火焚烧他们雕制的偶像。
But you shall deal with them in this way: Their altars you shall tear down, their pillars you shall shatter, their Asherahs you shall hew down, and their idols you
shall burn with fire.
7:6 因为你是归耶和华你神的圣别子民；耶和华你神从地上的万民中拣选你，作祂自己的珍宝，作祂的子民。
For you are a holy people to Jehovah your God; it is you whom Jehovah your God has chosen from among all the peoples which are upon the face of the earth to
be a people for His personal treasure.
7:7 耶和华钟情于你们，拣选你们，并非因你们多于别民，原来你们在万民中是最少的；
It was not because you were more numerous than all the peoples that Jehovah has set His affection on you and has chosen you, for you were the fewest of all
the peoples;
7:8 乃因耶和华爱你们，又因要守祂向你们列祖所起的誓，就用大能的手领你们出来，把你们从为奴之家，从埃及王法老的手中救赎出来。
Rather, because Jehovah loved you and because He would keep the oath which He swore to your fathers, Jehovah has brought you out with a mighty hand and
ransomed you from the slave house, from the hand of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt.
7:9 所以你要知道，耶和华你的神是神，是信实的神，向爱祂、守祂诫命的人守约并施慈爱，直到千代；
Know therefore that it is Jehovah your God who is God, the faithful God who keeps covenant and lovingkindness to the thousandth generation with those who
love Him and keep His commandments,
7:10 向恨祂的人当面报应他们，将他们灭绝。凡恨祂的人，祂必当面报应，绝不迟延。
But repays directly those who hate Him by destroying them. He will not be slow toward him who hates Him; He will repay him directly.
7:11 所以，你要谨守我今日所吩咐你遵行的诫命、律例和典章。
Therefore you shall keep the commandment, and the statutes and the judgments, which I am commanding you today to do.
7:12 你们若听从这些典章，谨守遵行，耶和华你神就必照祂向你列祖所起的誓，向你守约并施慈爱。
And it will be that because you listen to these judgments, and keep them and do them, Jehovah your God will keep with you the covenant and the lovingkindness
which He swore to your fathers.
7:13 祂必爱你，赐福与你，使你人数增多，也必在祂向你列祖起誓要赐给你的地上，赐福与你身所生的、地所产的，并你的五谷、新酒和新油，以及牛犊、
羊羔。
And He will love you and bless you and multiply you; He will also bless the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground, your grain and your new wine and
your fresh oil, the offspring of your cattle and the young of your flock, on the land which He swore to your fathers to give you.
7:14 你必蒙福胜过万民；你们的男女没有不能生养的，牲畜也没有不能生育的。
You will be more blessed than all other peoples; there will not be any barren male or female among you or among your animals.
7:15 耶和华必使一切的病症离开你；你所知道埃及各样的恶疾，祂必不加在你身上，只加给一切恨你的人。
And Jehovah will remove every sickness from you, and none of the evil illnesses of Egypt, which you know about, will He put upon you; but He will give them to all
who hate you.
7:16 耶和华你神所要交给你的一切人民，你要将他们除灭；你的眼不可怜惜他们。你也不可事奉他们的神，因这必成为你的网罗。
And you shall devour all the peoples which Jehovah your God is giving you; your eye shall not pity them, nor shall you serve their gods, for that would be a snare
to you.
191
7:17 你若心里说，这些国的民比我多，我怎能赶出他们？
If you say in your heart, These nations are greater than I, how will I be able to dispossess them?
7:18 你不要惧怕他们，要牢牢记住耶和华你神向法老和全埃及所行的事，
You shall not be afraid of them; you must remember what Jehovah your God did to Pharaoh and to all Egypt,
7:19 就是你亲眼所看见的大试验、神迹、奇事、大能的手、并伸出来的膀臂，都是耶和华你神领你出来所用的；耶和华你神必照样对待你所惧怕的众民。
The great trials that your eyes saw, and the signs and the wonders, and the mighty hand and the outstretched arm with which Jehovah your God brought you out;
so will Jehovah your God do to all the peoples whom you are afraid of.
7:20 并且耶和华你神要打发大黄蜂到他们中间，直到那余剩而从你面前藏躲的人灭亡了。
Furthermore, Jehovah your God will send the hornet among them until those who are left and those who hide themselves from you are destroyed.
7:21 你不要因他们惊恐，因为耶和华你神在你们中间，祂是大而可畏的神。
You shall not be terrified of them, for Jehovah your God is in your midst, a great and awesome God.
7:22 耶和华你神要渐渐的将这些国民从你面前除掉；你不可把他们速速灭尽，免得田野的兽多起来害你。
And Jehovah your God will clear away these nations from before you little by little; you shall not devour all of them immediately, lest the beasts of the field multiply
against you.
7:23 耶和华你神必将他们交给你，大大的扰乱他们，直到他们灭绝了。
But Jehovah your God will deliver them up before you and rout them utterly until they are destroyed.
7:24 祂要将他们的君王交在你手中，你就使他们的名从天下消灭；必无一人能在你面前站立得住，直到你将他们灭绝了。
And He will deliver their kings into your hand, and you shall destroy their name from under heaven; no man will be able to stand against you until you destroy
them.
7:25 他们雕制的神像，你们要用火焚烧；其上的金银，你不可贪图，也不可取为己有，免得你因此陷入网罗；这原是耶和华你神所憎恶的。
The idols of their gods you shall burn with fire; you shall not desire the silver or gold upon them, nor take it for yourself, lest you be ensnared by it; for it is an
abomination to Jehovah your God.
7:26 可憎的物，你不可带进家里，免得你成了当毁灭的，与那物一样；你要十分厌恶它，十分憎嫌它，因为这是当毁灭的物。
And you shall not bring an abomination into your house, lest you become a cursed thing like it; you shall utterly detest it and utterly abhor it, for it is a cursed thing.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 8 章
8:1 我今日所吩咐你的一切诫命，你们要谨守遵行，好叫你们存活，人数增多，得以进入耶和华向你们列祖起誓应许的那地，承受为业。
The whole commandment which I am commanding you today, you shall keep and do, so that you may live and multiply, and enter and possess the land which
Jehovah swore to your fathers.
8:2 你也要记念耶和华你的神，这四十年在旷野引导你走的路程，是要苦炼你，试验你，要知道你心内如何，肯守祂的诫命不肯。
And you shall remember all the way that Jehovah your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness in order to humble you and test you to know what was
in your heart, whether you would keep His commandments or not.
8:3 祂苦炼你，任你饥饿，将你和你列祖所不认识的吗哪赐给你吃，使你知道，人活着不是单靠食物，乃是靠耶和华口里所出的一切话。
And He humbled you and let you go hungry and fed you the manna, which you had never known nor your fathers had ever known, so that He might make you
know that man lives not by bread alone, but that man lives by everything that proceeds out from the mouth of Jehovah.
8:4 这四十年，你身上的衣服没有穿破，你的脚也没有走肿。
Your clothing did not wear out from upon you, nor did your foot swell these forty years.
8:5 你心里要明白，耶和华你神管教你，好像人管教儿子一样。
Know then in your heart that as a man disciplines his son, so Jehovah your God was disciplining you;
8:6 所以你要谨守耶和华你神的诫命，行祂的道路，敬畏祂。
Therefore keep the commandments of Jehovah your God, walking in His ways and fearing Him.
8:7 因为耶和华你神领你进入美地，那地有川，有泉，有源，从谷中和山上流出水来；
For Jehovah your God is bringing you to a good land, a land of waterbrooks, of springs and of fountains, flowing forth in valleys and in mountains;
8:8 那地有小麦、大麦、葡萄树、无花果树、石榴树；那地有出油的橄榄树，有蜜。
A land of wheat and barley and vines and fig trees and pomegranates; a land of olive trees with oil and of honey;
8:9 你在那地不缺食物，你必一无所缺；那地的石头是铁，山内可以挖铜。
A land in which you will eat bread without scarcity; you will not lack anything in it; a land whose stones are iron, and from whose mountains you can mine copper.
8:10 你吃得饱足，就要颂赞耶和华你的神，因祂将那美地赐给你了。
And you shall eat and be satisfied, and you shall bless Jehovah your God for the good land which He has given you.
8:11 你要谨慎，免得忘记耶和华你的神，不守祂的诫命、典章和律例，就是我今日所吩咐你的；
Be careful lest you forget Jehovah your God by not keeping His commandments and His judgments and His statutes, which I am commanding you today;
8:12 恐怕你吃得饱足，建造美好的房屋居住，
Lest when you have eaten and are satisfied, and have built fine houses and dwell in them,
8:13 你的牛羊加多，你的金银增添，你所有的全都加增，
And your herd and your flock have multiplied, and your silver and your gold have multiplied, and all that you have has multiplied,
8:14 你就心里高傲，忘记耶和华你的神，就是将你从埃及地，从为奴之家领出来的；
Your heart be lifted up and you forget Jehovah your God, Him who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the slave house;
8:15 祂引你经过那大而可怕的旷野，那里有火蛇、蝎子、和干旱无水之地；祂为你使水从坚硬的磐石中流出来；
Who led you through the great and awesome wilderness, with its fiery serpents and scorpions and thirsty ground where there was no water; who brought forth
water for you out of flint rock;
8:16 又在旷野将你列祖所不认识的吗哪赐给你吃，是要苦炼你，试验你，叫你终久得福；
Who fed you manna in the wilderness, which your fathers had never known, that He might humble you and that He might test you in order to do good for you in
the end;
8:17 恐怕你心里说，我这财富是我的力量和我手的能力得来的。
And you say in your heart, My strength and the might of my hand have gotten me this wealth.
192
8:18 你要记念耶和华你的神，因为得财富的力量是祂给你的，为要坚定祂向你列祖起誓所立的约，像今日一样。
But you shall remember Jehovah your God, for it is He who gives you strength to gain wealth, so that He may establish His covenant, which He swore to your
fathers, as it is this day.
8:19 你若忘记耶和华你的神，去随从别神，事奉跪拜它们，我今日向你们作证，你们必定灭亡。
And if you forget Jehovah your God at all and go after other gods and serve them and bow down to them, I testify against you today that you will surely perish.
8:20 耶和华在你们面前怎样使列国灭亡，你们也必照样灭亡，因为你们不听从耶和华你们神的话。
Like the nations which Jehovah is about to destroy before your face, so you will perish, because you would not listen to the voice of Jehovah your God.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 9 章
9:1 以色列阿，你当听！你今日要过约但河，进去赶出比你大、比你强的国民，得着宽大坚固、高得顶天的城邑。
Hear, O Israel! You are about to cross over the Jordan this day in order to enter in and dispossess nations greater and mightier than you, cities that are big and
fortified up to heaven,
9:2 那民是亚衲人的子孙，又大又高，是你所知道的；你也曾听见有人指着他们说，谁能在亚衲人的子孙面前站立得住？
A people great and tall, the children of the Anakim, whom you know about and of whom you have heard it said, Who can stand before the children of Anak?
9:3 你今日当知道，耶和华你的神是烈火，在你前面过去，要灭绝他们，将他们制伏在你面前，好使你照耶和华所说的，赶出他们，将他们速速消灭。
Know therefore today that Jehovah your God is the One crossing over before you as a consuming fire; it is He who will destroy them, and it is He who will subdue
them before you, so that you may dispossess them and destroy them quickly, as Jehovah has said to you.
9:4 耶和华你的神将他们从你面前撵出以后，你心里不可说，耶和华将我领进来得这地，是因我的义。其实，耶和华将这些国民从你面前赶出去，是因他
们的恶。
Do not say in your heart when Jehovah your God drives them out from before you, Because of my righteousness, Jehovah has brought me in to possess this land.
Rather, it is because of the wickedness of these nations that Jehovah is about to dispossess them from before you.
9:5 你进去得他们的地，并不是因你的义，也不是因你心里正直，乃是因这些国民的恶，耶和华你的神才将他们从你面前赶出去，又因耶和华要坚定祂向
你列祖亚伯拉罕、以撒、雅各起誓的话。
It is not because of your righteousness nor because of the uprightness of your heart that you are entering in to possess their land, but Jehovah your God is about
to dispossess them from before you because of the wickedness of these nations and so that Jehovah may establish the word that He swore to your fathers, to
Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
9:6 所以你当知道，耶和华你神将这美地赐你为业，并不是因你的义；你本是硬着颈项的百姓。
Know therefore that it is not because of your righteousness that Jehovah your God is giving you this good land to possess, for you are a stiff-necked people.
9:7 你当记得，不可忘记你在旷野曾惹耶和华你的神发怒；自从你出埃及地的那日，直到你们来到这地方，你们时常悖逆耶和华。
Remember; do not forget that you made Jehovah your God furious in the wilderness; from the day that you came forth from the land of Egypt up until you came to
this place, you have been rebellious against Jehovah.
9:8 你们在何烈山又惹耶和华发怒；祂恼怒你们，要灭绝你们。
And especially at Horeb you made Jehovah furious, and Jehovah was angry enough with you to destroy you.
9:9 我上了山，要领受两块石版，就是耶和华与你们立约的版；那时我在山上住了四十昼四十夜，没有吃饭，也没有喝水。
When I went up to the mountain to receive the tablets of stone, the Tablets of the Covenant which Jehovah made with you, I remained on the mountain forty days
and forty nights; I did not eat food nor drink water.
9:10 耶和华把那两块石版交给我，是神用指头写的；版上所写的是照耶和华在大会的日子，在山上从火中对你们所说的一切话。
And Jehovah gave me the two tablets of stone, written with the finger of God; and on them was what was according to all the words which Jehovah had spoken
with you on the mountain from the midst of the fire on the day of the assembly.
9:11 过了四十昼四十夜，耶和华把那两块石版，就是约版，交给我。
And at the end of forty days and forty nights, Jehovah gave me the two tablets of stone, the Tablets of the Covenant.
9:12 耶和华对我说，你起来，从这里赶快下去，因为你的百姓，就是你从埃及领出来的，已经败坏了；他们很快就偏离了我所吩咐他们行的道路，为自己
造了铸像。
Then Jehovah said to me, Arise, go down quickly from here, for your people, whom you have brought out of Egypt, have spoiled themselves; they have turned
aside quickly from the way that I commanded them; they have made for themselves a molten image.
9:13 耶和华又对我说，我看这百姓真是硬着颈项的百姓。
Then Jehovah spoke to me, saying, I have seen this people, and indeed they are a stiff-necked people.
9:14 你且由着我，我要灭绝他们，将他们的名从天下涂抹，使你成为比他们更强、人数更多的国。
Let Me alone that I may destroy them and blot their name out from under heaven, and I will make of you a nation mightier and more numerous than they.
9:15 于是我转身下山，山被火烧着，两块约版在我两手之中。
So I turned and came down from the mountain, and the mountain was burning with fire, and the two Tablets of the Covenant were in my two hands.
9:16 我看见你们真的得罪了耶和华你们的神，为自己铸了一只牛犊，很快的偏离了耶和华所吩咐你们行的道路，
And I saw that you had indeed sinned against Jehovah your God; you had made for yourselves a molten calf; you had turned aside quickly from the way that
Jehovah had commanded you.
9:17 我就握着那两块版，从我两手中扔出去，在你们眼前摔碎了。
And I took hold of the two tablets and cast them out of my two hands and shattered them before your eyes.
9:18 因你们所犯的一切罪，你们行了耶和华眼中看为恶的事，惹祂发怒，我就像从前那样，俯伏在耶和华面前四十昼四十夜，没有吃饭，也没有喝水。
Then I threw myself down before Jehovah as at the beginning, forty days and forty nights; I did not eat food nor drink water, because of all your sin which you
had sinned by doing that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah so as to anger Him.
9:19 我因耶和华向你们大发烈怒，要灭绝你们，就甚害怕；但那次耶和华又应允了我。
For I was afraid of the anger and the burning wrath with which Jehovah was angry enough against you to destroy you. But Jehovah listened to me in that
instance as well.
9:20 耶和华也向亚伦甚是发怒，要灭绝他；那时我也为亚伦祷告。
And Jehovah was very angry with Aaron, enough to destroy him. But I prayed also for Aaron at that time.
9:21 我把你们犯罪所铸的牛犊用火焚烧，又捣碎磨得极细，以致细如灰尘；我就把这灰尘撒在从山上流下来的溪水中。
193
Then I took your sin that you had made, the calf, and I burned it with fire and crushed it, grinding it thoroughly until it was as fine as dust; and I cast the dust of it
into the brook that came down from the mountain.
9:22 你们在他备拉、玛撒、基博罗哈他瓦，又惹耶和华发怒。
And at Taberah, at Massah, and at Kibroth-hattaavah, you made Jehovah furious.
9:23 耶和华打发你们离开加低斯巴尼亚，说，你们上去得我所赐给你们的地；那时你们违背了耶和华你们神的话，不信祂，不听祂的声音。
And when Jehovah sent you from Kadesh-barnea, saying, Go up and possess the land which I have given you, you rebelled at the word of Jehovah your God
and did not believe Him and did not listen to His voice.
9:24 自从我认识你们的那日起，你们常常悖逆耶和华。
You have been rebellious against Jehovah since the day I came to know you.
9:25 我因耶和华说要灭绝你们，就在耶和华面前俯伏，共俯伏了四十昼四十夜。
So I threw myself down before Jehovah for the forty days and the forty nights; I threw myself down thus, for Jehovah had said He would destroy you.
9:26 我向耶和华祷告说，主耶和华阿，求你不要灭绝你的百姓，你的产业；他们是你凭你的伟大救赎的，是你用大能的手从埃及领出来的。
And I prayed to Jehovah and said, O Lord Jehovah, do not destroy Your people and Your inheritance, whom You have ransomed with Your greatness, whom You
have brought out of Egypt with a mighty hand.
9:27 求你记念你的仆人亚伯拉罕、以撒、雅各，不要看这百姓的顽梗、邪恶、罪过，
Remember Your servants, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; do not look at the stubbornness of this people and at their wickedness and at their sin;
9:28 免得你领我们出来的那地之人说，耶和华因为不能把这百姓领进祂所应许之地，又因恨他们，所以领他们出去，要在旷野杀他们。
Lest the inhabitants of the land from which You have brought us out say, Because Jehovah was not able to bring them into the land which He promised them and
because He hated them, He has brought them out to kill them in the wilderness.
9:29 其实他们是你的百姓，你的产业，是你用大能和伸出来的膀臂领出来的。
But they are Your people and Your inheritance, whom You have brought out with Your great strength and with Your outstretched arm.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 10 章
10:1 那时耶和华对我说，你要凿出两块石版，和先前的一样，上山到我这里来，又要作一个木柜。
At that time Jehovah said to me, Cut for yourself two tablets of stone like the first ones, and come up to Me on the mountain; and make yourself an ark of wood.
10:2 你先前摔碎的版，其上的字我要写在这两块版上；你要将这两块版放在柜里。
And I will write upon the tablets the words which were on the first tablets, which you shattered; and you shall place them in the ark.
10:3 于是我用皂荚木作了一个柜，又凿出两块石版，和先前的一样，手里拿着这两块版上山去了。
So I made an ark of acacia wood and cut two tablets of stone like the first ones; and I went up to the mountain with the two tablets in my hand.
10:4 耶和华将祂在大会之日，在山上从火中对你们所说的十句话，照先前所写的，写在这两块版上，将版交给了我。
And He wrote upon the tablets as He had done the first writing, the ten words, which Jehovah spoke to you on the mountain from the midst of the fire on the day
of the assembly; and Jehovah gave them to me.
10:5 我转身下山，将版放在我所作的柜里，现今还在那里，正如耶和华所吩咐我的。
Then I turned and came down from the mountain, and I placed the tablets in the ark that I had made. And there they have been, as Jehovah commanded me.
10:6 (以色列人从比罗比尼亚干起行，到了摩西拉。亚伦死在那里，就葬在那里；他儿子以利亚撒接续他供祭司的职分。
(And the children of Israel set out from Beeroth Bene-jaakan for Moserah. There Aaron died, and there he was buried; and Eleazer his son served as priest in his
place.
10:7 他们从那里起行，到了谷歌大，又从谷歌大到了有溪水之地的约巴他。
From there they set out for Gudgodah; and from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land of waterbrooks.
10:8 那时耶和华将利未支派分别出来，抬耶和华的约柜，侍立在耶和华面前事奉祂，并在祂的名里祝福，直到今日。
At that time Jehovah separated the tribe of Levi to bear the Ark of the Covenant of Jehovah, to stand before Jehovah to minister to Him and bless in His name until
this day.
10:9 所以利未人在他弟兄中无分无业；耶和华是他的产业，正如耶和华你神所应许他的。)
Therefore Levi has no portion nor inheritance with his brothers; Jehovah is his inheritance, as Jehovah your God promised him.)
10:10 我又像初次那样，在山上停留了四十昼四十夜。那次耶和华也应允我，不愿将你灭绝。
And I stayed on the mountain, as I had the first time, forty days and forty nights. And Jehovah listened to me in that instance as well; Jehovah would not destroy
you.
10:11 耶和华对我说，你起来，领这百姓往前行，使他们进去得我向他们列祖起誓要赐给他们的地。
And Jehovah said to me, Arise, take up the journey before the people so that they may enter and possess the land which I have sworn to their fathers to give
them.
10:12 以色列阿，现在耶和华你神向你所要的是什么？只要你敬畏耶和华你的神，行祂一切的道路，爱祂，全心、全魂事奉祂，
And now, O Israel, what does Jehovah your God ask of you except that you fear Jehovah your God so that you would walk in all His ways and love Him and serve
Jehovah your God with all your heart and with all your soul;
10:13 遵守耶和华的诫命和律例，就是我今日所吩咐你的，为要叫你得福。
So that you would keep the commandments of Jehovah and His statutes, which I am commanding you today, for your good.
10:14 看哪，天和天上的天，地和地上的一切，都属耶和华你的神。
Behold, heaven and the heaven of heavens belong to Jehovah your God, the earth and all that is in it.
10:15 但耶和华只钟情于你的列祖，爱他们，从万民中拣选他们的后裔，就是你们，像今日一样。
But on your fathers Jehovah set His affection to love them and to choose their seed after them, that is, you above all the peoples, as it is this day.
10:16 所以要给你们的心行割礼，不可再硬着颈项；
Circumcise then the foreskin of your heart, and do not be stiff-necked any longer;
10:17 因为耶和华你们的神是万神之神，万主之主，至大的神，有能力，又可畏，不以貌取人，也不受贿赂。
For it is Jehovah your God who is the God of gods and the Lord of lords, the great God, mighty and awesome, who does not regard persons and does not take
bribes;
10:18 祂给孤儿寡妇伸冤，又爱寄居的，赐给他衣食。
194
He executes justice for the orphan and the widow, and He loves the sojourner, giving him food and clothing.
10:19 所以你们要爱寄居的，因为你们在埃及地也作过寄居的。
Therefore love the sojourner, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt.
10:20 你要敬畏耶和华你的神，事奉祂，紧联于祂，也要指着祂的名起誓。
You shall fear Jehovah your God; Him shall you serve and to Him shall you hold fast and by His name shall you swear.
10:21 祂是你所赞美的，是你的神，为你作了这些大而可畏的事，是你亲眼所看见的。
He is your praise and He is your God, who has done these great and awesome things for you, which your eyes have seen.
10:22 你的列祖七十人下埃及；现在耶和华你的神使你如同天上的星那样多。
Your fathers went down into Egypt as seventy souls; and now Jehovah your God has made you as the stars of heaven in multitude.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 11 章
11:1 所以你要爱耶和华你的神，常守祂的吩咐、律例、典章和诫命。
Therefore you shall love Jehovah your God and keep His charge and His statutes and His judgments and His commandments always.
11:2 你们今日当知道，我并不是和你们的儿女说话；他们不知道，也没有看见耶和华你们神的管教、伟大、大能的手、和伸出来的膀臂，
And realize today that I am speaking not with your sons, who do not know and who have not seen the discipline of Jehovah your God, His greatness, His mighty
hand and His outstretched arm;
11:3 并祂在埃及中向埃及王法老和其全地，所行的神迹和奇事；
And His signs and works, which He did in the midst of Egypt against Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and against all his land;
11:4 也没有看见祂怎样待埃及的军兵、马匹和战车，他们追赶你们的时候，耶和华怎样使红海的水淹没他们，将他们灭绝，直到今日，
And what He did to Egypt's forces, to their horses and to their chariots, when He caused the water of the Red Sea to flow over them while they were pursuing you;
and Jehovah made them perish to this day;
11:5 并祂在旷野怎样待你们，直到你们来到这地方；
And what He did for you in the wilderness until you came to this place;
11:6 也没有看见祂怎样待流便子孙以利押的儿子大坍、亚比兰，地怎样在以色列众人中间开口，把他们和他们的家眷、帐棚、与跟着他们的一切活物都吞
下去。
And what He did to Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, the son of Reuben, when the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up and their households
and their tents and all their substance that went with them, from the midst of all Israel.
11:7 惟有你们亲眼看见耶和华所作的一切大事。
But it is your eyes that have seen all the great work of Jehovah which He did.
11:8 所以你们要守我今日所吩咐的一切诫命，使你们刚强，能以进去，得你们所要过去得的那地，
Therefore you shall keep the whole commandment which I am commanding you today so that you may be strong and that you may go in and possess the land
into which you are crossing over to possess,
11:9 并使你们的日子，在耶和华向你们列祖起誓要赐给他们和他们后裔的地上，得以长久；那是流奶与蜜之地。
And so that you may extend your days upon the ground which Jehovah swore to your fathers, to give to them and to their seed, a land flowing with milk and
honey.
11:10 你要进去得为业的那地，并不像你出来的埃及地；你在那里撒种，用脚浇灌，像浇灌菜园一样。
For the land which you are entering in to possess is not like the land of Egypt, from which you came forth, where you used to sow your seed and water by foot as
in a vegetable garden.
11:11 你们要过去得为业的那地，乃是有山有谷，有天上雨水滋润之地，
But the land into which you are crossing over to possess is a land of mountains and valleys; by virtue of heaven's rain, it drinks in water.
11:12 是耶和华你神所眷顾的；从岁首到年终，耶和华你神的眼目时常看顾那地。
It is a land which Jehovah your God cares for; always the eyes of Jehovah your God are upon it, from the beginning of the year even to the end of the year.
11:13 你们若留意听从我今日所吩咐的诫命，爱耶和华你们的神，全心、全魂事奉祂，
And if you are certain to listen to my commandments, which I am commanding you today, to love Jehovah your God and serve Him with all your heart and with
all your soul,
11:14 我必按时降秋雨春雨在你们的地上，使你们可以收藏五谷、新酒和新油；
I will give rain for your land in its season, the early rain and the late rain, so that you may gather your grain and your new wine and your fresh oil.
11:15 我必使田野为你的牲畜长草；你也必吃得饱足。
And I will put grass in your field for your cattle, and you will eat and be satisfied.
11:16 你们要谨慎，免得心受迷惑，就偏离正路，去事奉跪拜别神；
Be careful lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside and serve other gods and bow down to them,
11:17 耶和华的怒气向你们发作，就使天闭塞不下雨，地也不出产，使你们在耶和华所赐给你们的美地上速速灭亡。
And the anger of Jehovah burn against you and He shut up heaven, so that there is no rain and the earth does not yield its produce and you perish quickly from
off the good land which Jehovah is giving you.
11:18 所以你们要将我这些话存在心里，留在魂中，系在手上为记号，戴在额上为头带；
Therefore you shall lay these words of mine on your heart and on your soul; and you shall bind them on your hand as a sign, and they shall be as frontlets
between your eyes;
11:19 也要教训你们的儿女，无论你坐在家里，行在路上，躺下，起来，都要谈论；
And you shall teach them to your children, speaking about them when you sit in your house and when you journey on the way, and when you lie down and when
you rise up;
11:20 又要写在你房屋的门框上，并你的城门上，
And you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates;
11:21 使你们和你们子孙的日子，在耶和华向你们列祖起誓要赐给他们的地上，得以增多，如天覆地的日子那样多。
That your days may be multiplied, as well as the days of your children, upon the land which Jehovah swore to your fathers to give them, as long as the days of
heaven are above the earth.
195
11:22 你们若留意谨守我所吩咐你们遵行的这一切诫命，爱耶和华你们的神，行祂一切的道路，紧联于祂，
For if you are certain to keep all this commandment which I am commanding you to do, to love Jehovah your God, to walk in all His ways and hold fast to Him,
11:23 祂必从你们面前赶出这一切国民，你们要把比你们大、比你们强的国民赶出去。
Jehovah will dispossess all these nations from before you, and you will dispossess nations greater and mightier than you.
11:24 凡你们脚掌所踏之地都必归你们；从旷野和利巴嫩，并伯拉河，直到西海，都要作你们的境界。
Every place on which the sole of your foot treads will be yours; from the wilderness and Lebanon, from the river, the river Euphrates, even to the farmost sea will
be your territory.
11:25 必无一人能在你们面前站立得住；耶和华你们的神必照祂所说的，使你们所踏之地的居民，都因你们惊恐惧怕。
No man will be able to stand against you; Jehovah your God will put the dread and fear of you upon all the land on which you tread, as He has spoken to you.
11:26 看哪，我今日将祝福与咒诅，都陈明在你们面前。
See, I am setting before you today a blessing and a curse:
11:27 你们若听从耶和华你们神的诫命，就是我今日所吩咐你们的，就必得祝福。
The blessing, if you listen to the commandments of Jehovah your God, which I am commanding you today;
11:28 你们若不听从耶和华你们神的诫命，偏离我今日所吩咐你们行的道路，去随从你们素来所不认识的别神，就必受咒诅。
And the curse, if you do not listen to the commandments of Jehovah your God and you turn aside from the way which I am commanding you today, to go after
other gods whom you have not known.
11:29 及至耶和华你的神领你进入要去得为业的那地，你要将祝福的话陈明在基利心山上，将咒诅的话陈明在以巴路山上。
And when Jehovah your God brings you into the land which you are entering to possess, you shall put the blessing upon Mount Gerizim and the curse upon
Mount Ebal.
11:30 这二山岂不是在约但河那边，日落之处，在住亚拉巴的迦南人之地，与吉甲相对，靠近摩利橡树么？
Indeed they are across the Jordan beyond the western road in the land of the Canaanites, who dwell in the Arabah before Gilgal beside the terebinths of Moreh.
11:31 你们要过约但河，进去得耶和华你们神所赐你们之地；你们要得那地，并在那地居住。
For you are about to cross over the Jordan to enter and possess the land which Jehovah your God is giving you; and you will possess it and dwell in it.
11:32 你们要谨守遵行我今日在你们面前所陈明的一切律例和典章。
Therefore be certain to do all the statutes and judgments that I am setting before you today.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 12 章
12:1 你们活在地上的一切日子，在耶和华你列祖的神所赐你为业的地上，要谨守遵行的律例和典章乃是这些：
These are the statutes and the judgments that you shall be certain to do in the land which Jehovah, the God of your fathers, has given you to possess, all the
days that you live on the earth.
12:2 你们要将所赶出的国民事奉他们神的各地方，无论是在高山上，在小山上，在各青翠树下，都彻底毁坏；
You shall completely destroy all the places where the nations whom you will dispossess have served their gods, on the high mountains and on the hills and under
every flourishing tree.
12:3 也要拆毁他们的祭坛，打碎他们的柱像，用火焚烧他们的木像，砍下他们雕制的神像，并将它们的名从那地方除灭。
And you shall tear down their altars and crush their pillars; and their Asherahs you shall burn with fire, and the idols of their gods you shall cut down; and you
shall destroy their name from that place.
12:4 你们不可照他们那样事奉耶和华你们的神。
You shall not do so to Jehovah your God.
12:5 但耶和华你们的神从你们各支派中，所选择出来立祂名的地方，就是祂的居所，那是你们当寻求的，你们要往那里去，
But to the place which Jehovah your God will choose out of all your tribes to put His name, to His habitation, shall you seek, and there shall you go.
12:6 将你们的燔祭和别的祭，十分取一之物，和手中的举祭，并还愿祭、甘心祭，以及牛群羊群中头生的，都奉到那里；
And there you shall bring your burnt offerings and your sacrifices and your tithes and the heave offering of your hand and your vows and your freewill offerings
and the firstborn of your herd and of your flock;
12:7 在那里，耶和华你们神的面前，你们和你们的家属都可以吃，并且因你手所办的一切事蒙耶和华你的神赐福，就都欢乐。
And there you shall eat before Jehovah your God, and you and your households shall rejoice in all your undertakings, in which Jehovah your God has blessed
you.
12:8 你们将来不可照我们今日在这里所行的，各人行自己眼中看为正的事；
You shall not do according to all that we do here today, each man doing all that is right in his own eyes;
12:9 因为直到如今，你们还没有进入耶和华你神所赐你的安息，所给你的产业。
For until now you have not come to the rest and to the inheritance that Jehovah your God is giving you.
12:10 但你们过了约但河，得以住在耶和华你们神使你们承受为业之地，又使你们得安息，不被四围的一切仇敌扰乱，安然居住；
But when you cross over the Jordan and dwell in the land which Jehovah your God is giving you as an inheritance, and when He gives you rest from all your
enemies surrounding you so that you dwell securely;
12:11 那时要将我所吩咐你们的燔祭和别的祭，十分取一之物，和手中的举祭，并向耶和华许愿所献一切上好的还愿祭，都奉到耶和华你们神所选择给祂名
居住的地方。
Then to the place where Jehovah your God will choose to cause His name to dwell, there you shall bring all that I am commanding you, your burnt offerings and
your sacrifices, your tithes and the heave offering of your hand and all your choice vows which you vow to Jehovah.
12:12 你们和儿子、女儿、仆人、婢女，还有你们城里的利未人，都要在耶和华你们的神面前欢乐，因为利未人在你们那里无分无业。
And you shall rejoice before Jehovah your God, you and your sons and daughters, and your male servants and female servants, and the Levite who is within your
gates, for he has no portion nor inheritance with you.
12:13 你要谨慎，不可在你所看中的各地方献上燔祭；
Be careful that you do not offer up your burnt offerings in every place that you see;
12:14 惟独耶和华从你的一个支派中所选择的地方，你要在那里献上燔祭，行我一切所吩咐你的。
But in the place which Jehovah will choose in one of your tribes, there you shall offer up your burnt offerings, and there you shall do all that I am commanding you.
12:15 不过，在你各城里，你可以照耶和华你神所赐你的福分，随心所欲的宰牲吃肉；不洁净的人和洁净的人都可以吃，就如吃羚羊与鹿一般。
196
Yet you may slaughter and eat meat within all your gates, in all that your soul desires, according to the blessing of Jehovah your God which He has given you; the
unclean and the clean may eat it, as the gazelle and the deer.
12:16 只是不可吃血，要倒在地上，如同倒水一样。
However, you shall not eat the blood; you shall pour it out upon the earth like water.
12:17 你的五谷、新酒、和新油的十分之一，或是牛群羊群中头生的，或是你许愿献的、甘心献的、和手中的举祭，都不可在你城里吃；
You may not eat within your gates the tithe of your grain or of your new wine or of your fresh oil, nor the firstborn of your herd or of your flock, or any of your vows
which you vow or of your freewill offerings or of the heave offering of your hand;
12:18 但要在耶和华你的神面前吃，在耶和华你神所要选择的地方，你和儿子、女儿、仆人、婢女、并你城里的利未人，都可以吃；也要因你手所办的一
切事，在耶和华你的神面前欢乐。
But you shall eat them before Jehovah your God in the place which Jehovah your God will choose, you and your son and daughter, and your male servant and
female servant, and the Levite who is within your gates; and you shall rejoice before Jehovah your God in all your undertakings.
12:19 你要谨慎，你在地上的一切日子，总不可撇弃利未人。
Be careful that you do not forsake the Levite all your days upon the earth.
12:20 耶和华你的神，照祂所应许扩张你境界的时候，你心里想要吃肉，说，我要吃肉，就可以随心所欲的吃肉。
When Jehovah your God enlarges your territory, as He has promised you, and you say, I will eat meat, because your soul desires to eat meat, you may eat meat
according to all that your soul desires.
12:21 耶和华你神所选择要立祂名的地方，若离你太远，就可以照我所吩咐的，将耶和华赐给你的牛羊取些宰了，随心所欲的在你城里吃。
If the place where Jehovah your God will choose to put His name is too far away from you, you may slaughter from your herd and from your flock, which Jehovah
has given you, as I have commanded you; and you may eat within your gates according to all that your soul de- sires;
12:22 你吃那肉，要像吃羚羊与鹿一般；不洁净的人和洁净的人，一样可以吃。
Indeed, as the gazelle and the deer are eaten, so you may eat it; the unclean and the clean may eat it alike.
12:23 只是你要心意坚定不吃血，因为血是生命；不可将生命与肉同吃。
But make sure that you do not eat the blood; for the blood is the life, and you shall not eat the life with the flesh.
12:24 不可吃血，要倒在地上，如同倒水一样。
You shall not eat it; you shall pour it out upon the earth like water.
12:25 你不可吃血，使你和你的子孙可以得福，因为你行了耶和华眼中看为正的事。
You shall not eat it, so that it may go well with you and with your children after you, when you do what is right in the sight of Jehovah.
12:26 只是你分别为圣的物和你的还愿祭，要奉到耶和华所选择的地方去；
But you shall take your holy things which you have and your vows, and go to the place which Jehovah will choose;
12:27 你的燔祭，连肉带血，都要献在耶和华你神的坛上；至于你别的祭，血要倒在耶和华你神的坛上，肉你可以吃。
And you shall offer your burnt offerings, the flesh and the blood, upon the altar of Jehovah your God; and the blood of your sacrifices shall be poured out upon
the altar of Jehovah your God, and you shall eat the flesh.
12:28 你要谨守听从我所吩咐的这一切话，使你和你的子孙可以永远得福，因为你行了耶和华你神眼中看为善、看为正的事。
Keep and listen to all these words which I am commanding you so that it may go well with you and with your children after you forever, for you will be doing what
is good and right in the sight of Jehovah your God.
12:29 耶和华你神将你要进去赶出的国民从你面前剪除；你将他们赶出，在他们的地居住；
When Jehovah your God cuts off the nations before you, which you are entering to dispossess, and you dispossess them and dwell in their land,
12:30 那时你要谨慎，不可在他们从你面前被除灭之后，随从他们以致陷入网罗，也不可寻求他们的神，说，这些国民怎样事奉他们的神，我也要照样行。
Be careful that you are not ensnared in following them, after they have been destroyed before you, and that you do not seek after their gods, saying, How did
these nations serve their gods, so that I also may do likewise?
12:31 你不可向耶和华你的神这样行，因为他们向他们的神行了耶和华所恨恶所厌憎的一切事，甚至将自己的儿女用火焚烧，献与他们的神。
You shall not do so for Jehovah your God, for every abomination to Jehovah, which He hates, they have done to their gods; for even their sons and their
daughters they have burned with fire to their gods.
12:32 凡我所吩咐的话，你们都要谨守遵行，不可加添，也不可删减。
The whole thing that I am commanding you, you shall be certain to do; you shall not add to it, nor shall you take away from it.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 13 章
13:1 你们中间若有申言者或是作梦的起来，给你一个神迹或奇事，
If a prophet or a dreamer of dreams stands up in your midst and gives you a sign or wonder,
13:2 对你说，我们去随从你素来所不认识的别神，事奉它们罢；他所提到的神迹或奇事虽然实现，
And the sign or the wonder occurs, about which he spoke to you, saying, Let us go after other gods whom you have not known, and let us serve them;
13:3 你也不可听那申言者或是那作梦之人的话；因为耶和华你们的神在试验你们，要知道你们是不是全心、全魂爱耶和华你们的神。
You shall not listen to the words of that prophet or to that dreamer of dreams; for Jehovah your God is testing you in order to know whether you love Jehovah
your God with all your heart and with all your soul.
13:4 你们要跟从耶和华你们的神，敬畏祂，谨守祂的诫命，听从祂的话，事奉祂，紧联于祂。
You shall follow Jehovah your God; and you shall fear Him, keep His commandments, listen to His voice, serve Him, and hold fast to Him.
13:5 那申言者或是那作梦的，既用言语叛逆那领你们出埃及地，救赎你脱离为奴之家的耶和华你们的神，要勾引你离开耶和华你神所吩咐你行的道路，他
就要被处死。这样，你就把那恶从你们中间完全除掉。
But that prophet or that dreamer of dreams shall be put to death, because he has advocated apostasy from Jehovah your God, who brought you out of the land
of Egypt and ransomed you from the slave house, in order to force you out of the way in which Jehovah your God has commanded you to walk. Thus you shall
utterly remove the evil from your midst.
13:6 你的同母兄弟，或是你的儿女，或是你怀中的妻子，或是如同你性命的朋友，若暗中引诱你，说，我们去事奉别神罢，(这些神是你和你列祖素来所不
认识的，
If your brother, the son of your mother, or your son or daughter, or the wife of your bosom, or your friend who is like your own soul to you entice you secretly,
saying, Let us go and serve other gods (which neither you nor your fathers have known,
197
13:7 是你们四围众民的神，无论离你近或离你远，从地这边到地那边，)
Of the gods of the peoples who are surrounding you, those who are near you or those who are far from you, from one end of the earth to the other);
13:8 你不可依从他，也不可听从他，眼不可怜惜他。你不可宽容他，也不可遮庇他，
You shall not yield to him nor listen to him, nor shall your eye pity him; neither shall you spare him nor conceal him;
13:9 总要杀他；你先下手，然后众民也下手，将他处死。
But you must slay him; your hand shall be first against him to put him to death, and afterward the hand of all the people.
13:10 你要用石头打死他，因为他想要勾引你离开那将你从埃及地，从为奴之家领出来的耶和华你的神。
And you shall stone him with stones so that he dies, because he sought to force you away from Jehovah your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out
of the slave house.
13:11 以色列众人听见都要害怕，就不敢在你们中间再行这样的恶了。
And all Israel will hear and will fear and will never do anything like this evil thing in your midst again.
13:12 在耶和华你神所赐你居住的一座城中，你若听人说，
If you hear in one of your cities, which Jehovah your God is giving you to dwell in, someone saying that
13:13 有些匪类从你们中间出来，勾引本城的居民，说，我们去事奉别神罢，(这些神是你们素来所不认识的，)
Some worthless men have gone out from your midst and have forced the inhabitants of their city, saying, Let us go and serve other gods (which you have not
known);
13:14 你就要探听、研究、仔细的查问。若果然真实，的确有这可憎恶的事行在你们中间，
Then you shall investigate and examine carefully and inquire thoroughly. And if indeed the thing is true and certain-this abomination has been done in your
midst -
13:15 你必要用刀杀那城里的居民，把那城完全毁灭，把城里所有的，连牲畜，都用刀杀尽。
You must slay the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword, utterly destroying it and all that is in it and its animals with the edge of the sword.
13:16 你从那城里所夺的财物，都要堆积在城内广场中间，用火将城和其内所夺的财物烧尽，归给耶和华你的神；那城就永为荒堆，不可再建造。
And all its spoil you shall gather at the middle of its open square, and you shall burn the city and all its spoil with fire wholly to Jehovah your God. And it shall be a
mound only forever; it shall not be built again.
13:17 那当毁灭的物，连一点都不可粘你的手，好叫耶和华转意不发烈怒，却向你施怜悯，怜恤你，照祂向你列祖所起的誓使你人数增多；
And nothing of what has been cursed shall cling to your hand, in order that Jehovah may turn from His burning anger and show you tenderness and be
compassionate to you and multiply you as He swore to your fathers,
13:18 只要你听从耶和华你神的话，谨守祂一切的诫命，就是我今日所吩咐你的，并且行耶和华你神眼中看为正的事。
When you listen to the voice of Jehovah your God and keep all His commandments, which I am commanding you today, and do what is right in the sight of
Jehovah your God.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 14 章
14:1 你们是耶和华你们神的儿女；不可为死人用刀划伤自己，也不可将额上剃光。
You are the children of Jehovah your God; you shall not cut yourselves nor shave your forehead for the dead.
14:2 因为你是归耶和华你神的圣别子民；耶和华从地上的万民中拣选了你，作祂自己的珍宝，作祂的子民。
For you are a holy people to Jehovah your God, and Jehovah has chosen you to be a people for His personal treasure, from among all the peoples which are
upon the face of the earth.
14:3 凡可憎的物，你都不可吃。
You shall not eat any abominable thing.
14:4 你们可以吃的牲畜乃是这些：牛、绵羊、山羊、
These are the animals which you may eat: the ox, the sheep, and the goat;
14:5 鹿、羚羊、麃子、野山羊、麋鹿、黄羊、青羊。
The deer, the gazelle, the roebuck, the wild goat, the ibex, the antelope, the mountain sheep.
14:6 凡分蹄，就是蹄裂两瓣，并且反刍的走兽，你们都可以吃。
And every animal that has a divided hoof, that is, has its hoof split in two, and that chews the cud among the animals, that you may eat.
14:7 但那反刍或裂蹄之中不可吃的乃是这些：骆驼、兔子、石獾，因为反刍却不分蹄，对你们就不洁净；
However, these you shall not eat of those that chew the cud or of those that have a cleft hoof: the camel, the hare, and the hyrax; because although they chew
the cud, they do not have a divided hoof; they are unclean to you.
14:8 猪，因为分蹄却不反刍，对你们就不洁净。这些兽的肉，你们不可吃；它们的尸体，你们不可触摸。
And the pig, because although it has a divided hoof, it does not chew the cud; it is unclean to you. You shall not eat of their flesh, nor shall you touch their
carcasses.
14:9 水中可以吃的乃是这些：凡有鳍有鳞的，你们都可以吃；
These you may eat of all that are in the water: Anything that has fins and scales you may eat,
14:10 凡无鳍无鳞的，你们都不可吃，对你们是不洁净的。
But anything that does not have fins and scales you shall not eat; it is unclean to you.
14:11 凡洁净的鸟，你们都可以吃。
You may eat any clean bird.
14:12 不可吃的乃是这些：雕、狗头雕、红头雕、
But these are what you shall not eat: the great vulture, the bearded vulture, and the black vulture;
14:13 鸢、隼、鹞鹰与其类，
The kite, the falcon, and the kite of every kind;
14:14 乌鸦与其类，
And all ravens of every kind;
14:15 鸵鸟、夜鹰、海鸥、鹰与其类，
The ostrich, the nighthawk, the sea gull, and the hawk of every kind;
198
14:16 鸱鸮、猫头鹰、叫鸮、
The little owl, the great owl, the white owl,
14:17 鹈鹕、秃雕、鸬鹚、
The pelican, the carrion vulture, the cormorant,
14:18 鹳、鹭鸶与其类，戴胜与蝙蝠。
The stork, the heron of every kind, the hoopoe, and the bat.
14:19 凡能飞的昆虫，对你们是不洁净的，都不可吃。
And all flying insects are unclean to you; they shall not be eaten.
14:20 凡洁净的飞禽，你们都可以吃。
You may eat any clean flying animal.
14:21 凡自死的，你们都不可吃，可以给你城里寄居的吃，或卖与外人，因为你是归耶和华你神的圣别子民。不可用山羊羔母的奶煮山羊羔。
You shall not eat any carcass; to the sojourner who is within your gates you may give it that he may eat it; or you may sell it to a foreigner. For you are a holy
people to Jehovah your God. You shall not boil a kid in its mother's milk.
14:22 你每年要把你撒种所产的，就是你田地所出的，十分取一分；
You must give a tenth of all the produce of your seed, which the field brings forth, year by year.
14:23 要在耶和华你神面前，在祂所选择给祂名居住的地方，吃你五谷、新酒、和新油的十分之一，并牛群羊群中头生的；这样，你可以学习时常敬畏耶
和华你的神。
And you shall eat before Jehovah your God, in the place where He will choose to cause His name to dwell, the tithe of your grain, of your new wine, and of your
fresh oil and the firstborn of your herd and flock, that you may learn to fear Jehovah your God always.
14:24 当耶和华你神赐福与你的时候，耶和华你神所选择要立祂名的地方，若离你太远，那路也太长，使你不能把十分取一之物带去，
But if the way is so far away from you that you are not able to carry your tithe, because the place where Jehovah your God will choose to set His name is too far
away from you when Jehovah your God has blessed you,
14:25 你就可以换成银子，将银子包起来，拿在手中，往耶和华你神所要选择的地方去。
Then you shall exchange it for money and bind up the money in your hand, and you shall go to the place which Jehovah your God will choose.
14:26 你用这银子，随心所欲，或买牛羊，或买淡酒浓酒，凡你心所想的都可以买；你和你的家属可以在那里，在耶和华你神的面前吃喝快乐。
And you shall exchange the money for anything that your soul desires, for oxen, for sheep, for wine, for strong drink, or for anything that your soul would like; and
you and your household shall eat there before Jehovah your God and rejoice.
14:27 你不可撇弃在你城里的利未人，因为他在你们那里无分无业。
But you shall not forsake the Levite who is within your gates, for he has no portion nor inheritance with you.
14:28 每逢三年的末了，你要将当年出产的十分之一都取出来，积存在你的城内。
At the end of every three years you shall bring forth all the tithe of your produce for that year and lay it within your gates;
14:29 在你那里无分无业的利未人，和你城里寄居的，并孤儿寡妇，都可以来，吃得饱足；这样，耶和华你的神必在你手所作的一切事上，赐福与你。
And the Levite shall come-for he has no portion nor inheritance with you-as well as the sojourner and the orphan and the widow who are within your gates; and
they shall eat and be satisfied, so that Jehovah your God may bless you in all the work of your hand which you do.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 15 章
15:1 每逢七年的末了，你要施行豁免。
At the end of every seven years you shall issue a release.
15:2 豁免的方式乃是这样：凡债主要松手把所借给邻舍的豁免了；不可向邻舍或弟兄索讨，因为耶和华的豁免已经宣告了。
And this is the manner of the release: Every creditor shall release from his hand that which he has lent to his neighbor; he shall not exact it from his neighbor or
his brother, for Jehovah's release has been proclaimed.
15:3 向外邦人，你可以索讨；但你弟兄欠你的，无论是什么，你都要松手豁免。
From the foreigner you may exact the debt; but whatever of yours your brother has, your hand shall release.
15:4 在你们中间必没有穷人，(因为在耶和华你神所赐你承受为业的地上，耶和华必大大赐福与你，)
However, there shall not be any needy among you (for Jehovah will surely bless you in the land which Jehovah your God is giving you as an inheritance to
possess),
15:5 只要你留意听从耶和华你神的话，谨守遵行我今日所吩咐你这一切的命令。
But only if you carefully listen to the voice of Jehovah your God and are certain to do all this commandment which I am commanding you today.
15:6 因为耶和华你的神必照祂所应许你的赐福与你。你必借给许多国民，却不至向他们借贷；你必管辖许多国民，他们却不能管辖你。
For Jehovah your God will bless you as He has promised you. And you will lend to many nations, but you will not borrow; and you will rule over many nations, but
they will not rule over you.
15:7 在耶和华你神所赐你的地上，无论那一座城里，你弟兄中若有一个穷人，你向这穷乏的弟兄，不可心硬手紧；
If among you there is a needy one amidst your brothers within any of your gates in your land, which Jehovah your God is giving you, you shall not harden your
heart and you shall not close up your hand from your needy brother;
15:8 总要向他松开手，照他所缺乏的借给他，补他的不足。
But you must open your hand to him, and you must lend enough for his need in whatever he lacks.
15:9 你要小心，不可心里起卑鄙的念头，说，第七年的豁免年快到了；你便恶眼看你穷乏的弟兄，什么都不给他，以致他向耶和华呼求控告你，你就有罪
了。
Be careful that there is not within your heart a base thought like this: The seventh year, the year of release, is near; and your eye be evil against your needy
brother and you do not give him anything, and he cry against you to Jehovah, and it become sin to you.
15:10 你总要给他，给他的时候心里不可作难；因耶和华你的神必为这事的缘故，在你一切所行的并你手所办的事上，赐福与你。
You must give to him, and your heart shall not be displeased when you give to him; for on account of this matter Jehovah your God will bless you in all your work
and in all your undertakings.
15:11 原来那地上的穷人必不断绝，所以我吩咐你说，总要向你地上困苦穷乏的弟兄松开手。
199
For the needy will not cease being in the land; therefore I am commanding you, saying, You must open your hand to your brother, to the poor one with you and to
the needy one with you in your land.
15:12 你的弟兄，无论是希伯来男人或是希伯来女人，若被卖给你，他要服事你六年，到第七年你就要让他自由离去。
If your brother, a Hebrew man or woman, is sold to you, he shall serve you six years; but in the seventh year you shall set him free.
15:13 你让他自由离去的时候，不可使他空手而去，
And when you set him free, you shall not send him away empty-handed;
15:14 要从你羊群、禾场、酒醡之中多多的供给他；耶和华你的神怎样赐福与你，你也要照样给他。
You must supply him richly from your flock and from your threshing floor and from your winepress; as Jehovah your God has blessed you, so shall you give to him.
15:15 要记念你在埃及地作过奴仆，耶和华你的神救赎了你；因此，我今日吩咐你这件事。
And you shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt and that Jehovah your God ransomed you; therefore I am commanding you this thing today.
15:16 他若对你说，我不愿意离开你，是因他爱你和你的家，他在你那里很好；
And if he says to you, I will not go forth from you, because he loves you and your household, for it goes well with him to be with you;
15:17 你就要拿锥子将他的耳朵在门上刺透，他便永远作你的奴仆；你待婢女也要这样。
Then you shall take an awl and run it through his ear and into the door, and he shall be your servant forever; and thus also shall you do to your female servant.
15:18 你让他自由离去的时候，不要看为难事，因他服事你六年，若是雇工，就应得双倍工价；耶和华你的神必在你所作的一切事上，赐福与你。
You shall not view it as a hardship when you set him free; for he served you for six years, saving you double the wages of a hired hand, and Jehovah your God
will bless you in all that you do.
15:19 你牛群羊群中头生的，凡是公的，都要分别为圣，归耶和华你的神。牛群中头生的，不可用它作工；羊群中头生的，不可剪毛。
All firstborn males that are brought forth in your herd and in your flock you shall sanctify to Jehovah your God; you shall not do work with your firstborn ox, nor
shall you shear your firstborn sheep.
15:20 这头生的，你和你的家属，每年要在耶和华所选择的地方，在耶和华你的神面前吃。
You and your household shall eat it before Jehovah your God year by year in the place which Jehovah will choose.
15:21 这头生的，若有什么残疾，就如瘸腿或瞎眼，无论是什么严重的残疾，都不可献给耶和华你的神。
And if there is a blemish in it, lameness or blindness, any serious blemish, you shall not sacrifice it to Jehovah your God.
15:22 你可以在你城里吃；不洁净的人和洁净的人一样可以吃，就如吃羚羊与鹿一般。
You shall eat it within your gates; the unclean and the clean alike may eat it, as the gazelle and the deer.
15:23 只是不可吃它的血，要倒在地上，如同倒水一样。
However, you shall not eat its blood; you shall pour it out upon the earth like water.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 16 章
16:1 你要谨守亚笔月，向耶和华你的神守逾越节，因为耶和华你的神在亚笔月夜间领你出了埃及。
Observe the month of Abib, and hold the Passover to Jehovah your God; for in the month of Abib Jehovah your God brought you out of Egypt by night.
16:2 你当在耶和华所选择给祂名居住的地方，从羊群牛群中，将逾越节的祭牲献给耶和华你的神。
And you shall sacrifice the passover to Jehovah your God, from the flock and from the herd, in the place where Jehovah will choose to cause His name to dwell.
16:3 你吃这祭牲，不可与有酵之物同吃；七日之内要与无酵饼，就是与困苦饼同吃，(你本是急忙出了埃及地，)好叫你一生的日子都记念你从埃及地出来
的那日。
You shall not eat anything leavened with it; seven days you shall eat unleavened bread with it, that is, the bread of affliction (for in alarmed haste you came out of
the land of Egypt); in order that you may remember the day of your coming out of the land of Egypt all the days of your life.
16:4 在你四境之内，七日不可见发酵物；头一日晚上所献的肉，一点不可留到早晨。
And leaven shall not be seen with you in all your territory for seven days, nor shall any of the flesh which you sacrifice in the evening on the first day remain until
morning.
16:5 在耶和华你神所赐的各城中，你不可献逾越节的祭牲；
You may not sacrifice the passover within any of your gates, which Jehovah your God is giving you;
16:6 只当在耶和华你神所选择给祂名居住的地方，晚上日落的时候，就是你出埃及的时候，献逾越节的祭牲。
Rather, in the place where Jehovah your God will choose to cause His name to dwell, you shall sacrifice the passover in the evening, as the sun sets, at the time
that you came out of Egypt.
16:7 当在耶和华你神所选择的地方把肉烤了吃，次日早晨就回到你的帐棚去。
And you shall cook and eat it in the place which Jehovah your God will choose, and you shall turn in the morning and go to your tents.
16:8 你要吃无酵饼六日，第七日要向耶和华你的神守严肃会，不可作工。
Six days you shall eat unleavened bread. And on the seventh day there shall be a solemn assembly to Jehovah your God; you shall not do any work.
16:9 你要计算七个七日：从你开镰收割禾稼时算起，共计七个七日。
You shall count off for yourself seven weeks. You shall begin to count the seven weeks from the time that you begin to put the sickle to the standing grain.
16:10 你要照耶和华你神所赐你的福，手里拿着你所要献上足量的甘心祭，向耶和华你的神守七七节。
And you shall hold the Feast of Weeks to Jehovah your God according to the sufficiency of the freewill offering of your hand, which you will give, as Jehovah your
God blesses you.
16:11 你和你的儿子、女儿、仆人、婢女，并你城里的利未人，以及你们中间寄居的与孤儿寡妇，都要在耶和华你神所选择给祂名居住的地方，在耶和华你
的神面前欢乐。
And you and your son and daughter, and your male servant and female servant, and the Levite who is within your gates and the sojourner and the orphan and
the widow who are in your midst shall rejoice before Jehovah your God in the place where Jehovah your God will choose to cause His name to dwell.
16:12 你也要记念你在埃及作过奴仆；你要谨守遵行这些律例。
And you shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt, and you shall keep and do these statutes.
16:13 你从禾场、酒醡收藏了出产以后，就要守住棚节七日。
You shall hold the Feast of Tabernacles for seven days after your ingathering from your threshing floor and your winepress.
16:14 守节的时候，你和你的儿子、女儿、仆人、婢女，并你城里的利未人，以及寄居的与孤儿寡妇，都要欢乐。
200
And you and your son and daughter, and your male servant and female servant, and the Levite and the sojourner and the orphan and the widow who are within
your gates shall rejoice in your feast.
16:15 在耶和华所选择的地方，你当向耶和华你的神守节七日；因为耶和华你神在你一切的出产上，和你手所办的一切事上，要赐福与你，你就十分欢乐。
You shall keep the feast to Jehovah your God for seven days in the place which Jehovah will choose, for Jehovah your God will bless you in all your produce and
in all your undertakings; therefore you shall be nothing but joyful.
16:16 你一切的男丁，要在除酵节、七七节、住棚节，一年三次，在耶和华你神所选择的地方朝见祂。他们不可空手朝见耶和华；
Three times a year all your males shall appear before Jehovah your God in the place which He will choose: at the Feast of Unleavened Bread, at the Feast of
Weeks, and at the Feast of Tabernacles. And they shall not appear before Jehovah empty-handed;
16:17 各人要按自己的力量，照耶和华你神所赐的福，奉献礼物。
Each man shall give as he is able to give, according to the blessing of Jehovah your God, which He has given you.
16:18 你要在耶和华你神所赐的各城里，按着支派设立审判官和官长；他们必按公义的判断，审判百姓。
You shall appoint for yourself judges and officers in all your cities which Jehovah your God is giving you, according to your tribes; and they shall judge the people
with righteous judgment.
16:19 不可屈枉公理，不可看人的外貌，也不可受贿赂，因为贿赂能叫智慧人的眼变瞎，又能颠倒义人的话。
You shall not distort justice; you shall not respect persons, nor shall you take a bribe, for a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise and perverts the words of the
righteous.
16:20 你要追求公义，只当追求公义，好叫你存活，承受耶和华你神所赐你的地。
Righteousness, and only righteousness, shall you pursue, in order that you may live and possess the land which Jehovah your God is giving you.
16:21 你为自己筑耶和华你神的坛，不可在坛旁为自己栽什么树木作为木像；
You shall not plant for yourself an Asherah of any kind of tree beside the altar of Jehovah your God, which you will make for yourself;
16:22 也不可为自己设立柱像，这是耶和华你神所恨恶的。
Nor shall you erect for yourself a pillar, something which Jehovah your God hates.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 17 章
17:1 凡有残疾，有什么严重缺陷的牛羊，你都不可献给耶和华你的神，因为这是耶和华你神所憎恶的。
You shall not sacrifice to Jehovah your God any ox or sheep in which there is a blemish, anything seriously wrong, for that is an abomination to Jehovah your God.
17:2 在你们中间，在耶和华你神所赐你的任何一座城里，若发现有男人或女人，行耶和华你神眼中看为恶的事，违背了祂的约，
If there is found in your midst, within any of your gates which Jehovah your God is giving you, a man or a woman who does what is evil in the sight of Jehovah
your God by transgressing His covenant,
17:3 去事奉跪拜别神，或拜日头，或拜月亮，或拜天象，是我不曾吩咐的；
And has gone and served other gods, and bowed down to them, that is, to the sun or the moon or any of the host of heaven, which I have not commanded you
to do;
17:4 有人告诉你，你也听见了，就要仔细的探听，若果然真实，的确有这可憎恶的事行在以色列中，
And it is told to you and you hear of it; then you shall investigate thoroughly. And if indeed the thing is true and certain-this abomination has been done in Israel
-
17:5 你就要将行这恶事的男人或女人拉到城门那里，用石头将他们打死。
Then you shall bring out that man or that woman who has done this evil thing, to your gates, that very man or woman, and you shall stone them with stones so
that they die.
17:6 要凭两三个见证人的口，将那当死的人处死；不可只凭一个见证人的口将他处死。
At the word of two witnesses or three witnesses shall he who is to die be put to death; he shall not be put to death at the word of only one witness.
17:7 见证人要先下手，然后众民也下手，将他处死。这样，你就把那恶从你们中间完全除掉。
The hand of the witnesses shall be first against him to put him to death, and afterward the hand of all the people. Thus you shall utterly remove the evil from your
midst.
17:8 你城中若起了争执的事，或因杀人，或因诉讼，或因殴打，是你难断的，你就当起来，上耶和华你神所选择的地方，
If a case is too complicated for you to judge between one kind of homicide and another, or between one kind of civil suit and another, or between one kind of
assault and another, being disputed cases within your gates, then you shall arise and go up to the place which Jehovah your God will choose;
17:9 去见祭司利未人和当时的审判官，求问他们，他们必将判语指示你。
And you shall come to the Levitical priests and to the judge who is presiding in those days and investigate the matter; and they shall declare to you the sentence
of judgment.
17:10 你要照着他们从耶和华所选择的地方指示你的判语去行；你要照着他们所指教你的一切话谨守遵行。
And you shall do according to the word of the sentence that they declare to you from that place which Jehovah will choose; and you shall be certain to do
according to all that they instruct you.
17:11 要按他们所给你的指导，照他们所告诉你的断案去行；他们所指示你的判语，你不可偏离左右。
You shall do according to the word of the instruction with which they instruct you and according to the judgment which they speak to you; you shall not turn aside
to the right or to the left from the sentence that they declare to you.
17:12 若有人擅自行事，不听从在那里在耶和华你神面前侍立供职的祭司，或不听从审判官，那人必要治死；这样，你就把那恶从以色列中完全除掉。
And the man who acts presumptuously by not listening to the priest who stands to minister there before Jehovah your God, or to the judge, that man shall die.
Thus you shall utterly remove the evil from Israel.
17:13 众百姓听见都要害怕，不再擅自行事。
And all the people will hear and will fear, and they will not act presumptuously anymore.
17:14 你进了耶和华你神所赐你的地，得了那地，居住的时候，若说，我要立一位王治理我，像四围的列国一样；
When you enter the land which Jehovah your God is giving you, and you possess it and dwell in it, and you say, I will set a king over me like all the nations which
surround me;
17:15 你总要立耶和华你神所拣选的人为王治理你；要从你弟兄中立一位王，不可立你弟兄以外的人治理你。
201
You must set a king over you whom Jehovah your God will choose; from among your brothers you shall set a king over you; you may not put a foreigner, who is
not your brother, over you.
17:16 只是王不可为自己多添马匹，也不可使百姓回埃及去，要为自己多添马匹，因耶和华曾对你们说，不可再回那条路去。
However, he shall not amass horses to himself, and he shall not turn the people back to Egypt so that he may amass horses, since Jehovah has said to you, You
shall never again return that way.
17:17 他也不可为自己多立妃嫔，免得他的心偏邪；也不可为自己多多积聚金银。
And he shall not amass wives to himself, so that his heart does not turn aside; nor shall he amass silver and gold to himself in great amounts.
17:18 他登了国位，就要将祭司利未人面前的这律法书，为自己抄录一本，
And when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, he shall write out for himself a copy of this law in a book, out of that which is before the Levitical priests.
17:19 存在他那里；他一生的日子都要诵读，好学习敬畏耶和华他的神，谨守遵行这律法书上的一切言语和这些律例，
And it shall be with him, and he shall read in it all the days of his life, in order that he may learn to fear Jehovah his God by keeping all the words of this law and
these statutes and doing them,
17:20 免得他向弟兄心里高傲，离了这诫命，或偏左或偏右。这样，他和他的子孙在以色列中治国的日子，就得以长久。
So that his heart may not be lifted up above his brothers and he may not turn aside from the commandment to the right or to the left; that he and his sons may
extend their days over their kingdom in the midst of Israel.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 18 章
18:1 祭司利未人，利未全支派，必在以色列中无分无业；他们要吃用献给耶和华的火祭和祂的产业。
The Levitical priests, the whole tribe of Levi, shall have no portion nor inheritance with Israel; they shall eat Jehovah's offerings by fire and His inheritance.
18:2 他们在弟兄中必没有产业；耶和华是他们的产业，正如耶和华所应许他们的。
Thus they shall have no inheritance in the midst of their brothers; Jehovah is their inheritance, as He has promised them.
18:3 祭司从百姓所当得的分乃是这样：凡献牛或羊为祭的，要把前腿和两腮并胃脏给祭司。
And this shall be the priests' rightful due from the people, from those who offer a sacrifice, whether an ox or a sheep: They shall give the priest the shoulder, the
two cheeks, and the stomach.
18:4 初收的五谷、新酒和新油，并初剪的羊毛，也要给他；
You shall give him the first fruits of your grain, of your new wine, and of your fresh oil, and the first shearing of your sheep;
18:5 因为耶和华你的神从你众支派中将他和他的子孙拣选出来，使他们常在耶和华的名里侍立供职。
For Jehovah your God has chosen him and his sons out of all your tribes to stand and minister in Jehovah's name always.
18:6 利未人无论寄居在以色列中的那一座城，若从那里出来，一心愿意到耶和华所选择的地方，
And if a Levite comes from any of your gates out of all Israel, where he sojourns, and comes according to all his soul's desire to the place which Jehovah will
choose,
18:7 就要在耶和华他神的名里供职，像他众弟兄利未人在那里侍立在耶和华面前一样。
He shall minister in the name of Jehovah his God, like all his brothers, the Levites, who stand there before Jehovah.
18:8 除了他卖祖产所得的以外，他还可以与弟兄们吃同等分量的祭物。
They shall eat equal portions, besides the proceeds from the sale of his father's estate.
18:9 你进了耶和华你神所赐之地，那些国民所行可憎恶的事，你不可学着行。
When you enter the land which Jehovah your God is giving you, you shall not learn to do things according to the abominations of those nations.
18:10 你们中间不可有人使儿女经火，也不可有占卜的、观兆的、用法术的、行邪术的、
There shall not be found among you anyone who makes his son or daughter pass through fire; anyone who performs divination, practices soothsaying, or
interprets omens; or anyone who employs sorcery
18:11 念咒的、交鬼的、行巫术的、过阴的；
Or casts spells; or anyone who consults a spirit of the dead or a familiar spirit or inquires of the dead;
18:12 凡行这些事的，都为耶和华所憎恶；因那些国民行这些可憎恶的事，所以耶和华你的神将他们从你面前赶出。
For everyone who does these things is an abomination to Jehovah; and on account of these abominations Jehovah your God is dispossessing them from before
you.
18:13 你要向着耶和华你的神作完全人。
You shall be blameless toward Jehovah your God.
18:14 因你所要赶出的那些国民，都听信观兆的和占卜的；但耶和华你的神从来不许你这样行。
For these nations whom you are dispossessing listen to those who practice soothsaying and to those who perform divination, but Jehovah your God has not
allowed you to do so.
18:15 耶和华你的神要从你们弟兄们中间，给你兴起一位申言者像我，你们要听从祂。
A Prophet will Jehovah your God raise up for you from your midst, from among your brothers, like me; you shall listen to Him.
18:16 正如你在何烈山大会的日子，向耶和华你神所求一切的话，说，求你不要叫我再听见耶和华我神的声音，也不要叫我再看见这大火，免得我死亡。
This is according to all that you asked of Jehovah your God at Horeb on the day of the assembly, saying, Let me not hear any more of the voice of Jehovah my
God, and let me not see this great fire any longer, lest I die.
18:17 耶和华就对我说，他们所说的很好。
And Jehovah said to me, They have done well in what they have spoken.
18:18 我必从他们弟兄们中间，给他们兴起一位申言者像你；我要将我的话放在祂口中，祂要将我一切所吩咐的，都告诉他们。
A Prophet will I raise up for them from the midst of their brothers like you; and I will put My words in His mouth, and He will speak to them all that I command Him.
18:19 谁不听祂在我名里所说的话，我必亲自向谁讨罪。
And the man who will not listen to My words which He will speak in My name, I Myself will require it from him.
18:20 若有申言者擅自托我的名，说我所未曾吩咐他说的话，或是奉别神的名说话，那申言者必要治死。
But the prophet who speaks a word presumptuously in My name, which I did not command him to speak, or who speaks in the name of other gods, that prophet
shall die.
18:21 你心里若说，我们怎能知道那是耶和华没有说过的话呢？
202
And if you say in your heart, How shall we know the word that Jehovah has not spoken?
18:22 申言者托耶和华的名说话，所说的若不成就，也无效验，那就是耶和华没有说过的话，是那申言者擅自说的，你不要怕他。
When a prophet speaks in the name of Jehovah and the thing does not happen nor come about, that is the thing which Jehovah has not spoken. The prophet
has spoken presumptuously; you shall not be afraid of him.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 19 章
19:1 耶和华你神将列国的民剪除，耶和华你神也将他们的地赐给你，你将他们赶出，住他们的城邑并他们的房屋，
When Jehovah your God cuts off the nations whose land Jehovah your God is giving you and you dispossess them and dwell in their cities and in their houses,
19:2 那时你要在耶和华你神所赐你为业的地上，为自己分出三座城。
You shall set apart three cities for yourself in the midst of your land, which Jehovah your God is giving you to possess.
19:3 你要测量距离，将耶和华你神赐你承受为业的地，分为三区，使误杀人的，都可以逃到那里。
You shall survey the distances for yourself and divide into three parts the territory of your land, which Jehovah your God will give you as an inheritance, so that
every manslayer may flee there.
19:4 误杀人的逃到那里而得存活，定例乃是这样：凡素无仇恨，无意中杀了邻舍的，
And this shall be the case of the manslayer who flees there and lives: He who slays his neighbor without intent and did not hate him previously -
19:5 就如人与邻舍同入树林砍伐树木，手拿斧子砍树，斧头脱了把，打在邻舍身上，以致于死，这人可以逃到那些城的一座城而得存活，
As when a man goes with his neighbor into the forest to cut wood, and his hand goes to cut the tree with an axe, and the iron axehead slips off the handle and
hits his neighbor so that he dies-he shall flee to one of these cities and live;
19:6 免得报血仇的，心中火热追赶他，因路远就追上，将他杀死；其实他不该死，因为他与被杀的素无仇恨。
Lest the avenger of blood pursue the manslayer, while his heart rages, and he overtake him because the distance is long and slay him; though he is not worthy of
death, for he did not hate him previously.
19:7 所以我吩咐你说，要分出三座城。
Therefore I am commanding you, saying, You shall set apart three cities for yourself.
19:8 耶和华你神若照祂向你列祖所起的誓，扩张你的境界，将所应许赐你列祖的地全然给你；
And if Jehovah your God enlarges your territory, as He swore to your fathers, and gives you all the land which He promised to give to your fathers;
19:9 你若谨守遵行我今日所吩咐的这一切诫命，爱耶和华你的神，常常行祂的道路，就要在这三座城之外，再为自己加添三座城；
If you are certain to do all this commandment which I am commanding you today, to love Jehovah your God and to walk in His ways always; then you shall add
three more cities for yourself, besides these three,
19:10 免得无辜之人的血，流在耶和华你神所赐你为业的地上，流血的罪就归于你。
That innocent blood may not be shed in the midst of your land, which Jehovah your God is giving you as an inheritance, and guilt for blood be upon you.
19:11 但若有人恨他的邻舍，埋伏着起来击杀他，以致于死，然后逃到这些城的一座城；
But if a man hates his neighbor and lies in wait for him, and he rises up against him and slays him so that he dies, and he flees to one of these cities;
19:12 他本城的长老就要打发人去，从那里带出他来，交在报血仇的手中，将他治死。
Then the elders of his city shall send men and take him from there and deliver him into the hand of the avenger of blood, so that he may die.
19:13 你的眼不可怜惜他，却要从以色列中除掉流无辜血的罪，使你可以得福。
Your eye shall not pity him, but you shall remove the guilt of innocent blood from Israel that it may go well with you.
19:14 在耶和华你神所赐你为业之地，在你所承受的产业上，不可挪移你邻舍的地界，那是先人所定的。
You shall not move your neighbor's boundary marker, which your ancestors have set, in your inheritance, which you will inherit in the land which Jehovah your
God is giving you to possess.
19:15 不可只有一个见证人起来指证人所犯的罪，无论是什么罪孽或什么罪；总要凭两三个见证人的口，才可定案。
One witness only shall not rise up against a man for any iniquity or for any sin which he has committed; at the word of two witnesses or at the word of three
witnesses shall a matter be established.
19:16 若有恶毒的见证人起来指证某人作恶，
If a malicious witness rises up against a man to testify against him of wrongdoing,
19:17 这两个争讼的人就要站在耶和华面前，在当时的祭司和审判官面前。
The two men who have the dispute shall stand before Jehovah, before the priests and the judges who are serving in those days.
19:18 审判官要仔细的查究，若见证人果然是作假见证的，以假见证陷害弟兄，
And the judges shall investigate thoroughly; and if indeed the witness is a false witness, if he has testified falsely against his brother,
19:19 你们就要待他，如同他想要怎样待他的弟兄。这样，你就把那恶从你们中间完全除掉。
You shall do to him as he intended to do to his brother. Thus you shall utterly remove the evil from your midst.
19:20 其余的人听见都必害怕，就不敢在你们中间再行这样的恶事了。
And those who remain will hear and will fear and will never again do anything like this evil thing in your midst.
19:21 你的眼不可怜惜，要以命偿命，以眼还眼，以牙还牙，以手还手，以脚还脚。
And your eye shall not pity: a life for a life, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a hand for a hand, a foot for a foot.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 20 章
20:1 你出去与仇敌争战的时候，看见马匹、战车、和比你多的人民，不要怕他们，因为领你从埃及地上来的耶和华你神与你同在。
When you go forth into battle against your enemies, and you see horse and chariot, a people more numerous than you, you shall not fear them; for Jehovah your
God is with you, He who brought you up out of the land of Egypt.
20:2 你们将要上阵的时候，祭司要近前来，告诉百姓，
And when you draw near to the battle, the priest shall approach and speak to the people,
20:3 说，以色列人哪，你们当听！你们今日将要与仇敌争战，不要胆怯，不要惧怕，不要恐慌，也不要因他们惊恐；
203
And he shall say to them, Hear, O Israel! You are drawing near to the battle against your enemies today. Do not let your heart fail; do not be afraid nor alarmed
nor terrified of them.
20:4 因为耶和华你们的神与你们同去，要为你们与仇敌争战，拯救你们。
For it is Jehovah your God who goes with you to fight for you against your enemies, to save you.
20:5 官长也要告诉百姓，说，有谁建造新房屋，尚未奉献呢？他可以回家去，免得他阵亡，别人去奉献。
And the officers shall speak to the people, saying, Is there any man who has built a new house and has not dedicated it? Let him go and return to his house, lest
he die in the battle and another man dedicate it.
20:6 有谁种葡萄园，尚未享用呢？他可以回家去，免得他阵亡，别人去享用。
Is there any man who has planted a vineyard and has not partaken of it? Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle and another man partake of
it.
20:7 有谁聘定了妻子，尚未迎娶呢？他可以回家去，免得他阵亡，别人去娶。
Is there any man who has gotten engaged to a woman and has not taken her to himself? Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle and another
man take her to himself.
20:8 官长又要告诉百姓，说，有谁惧怕胆怯呢？他可以回家去，免得他弟兄的心融化，和他一样。
And the officers shall speak further to the people and say, Is there any man who is afraid and whose heart fails? Let him go and return to his house, so that the
heart of his brothers does not melt like his heart.
20:9 官长对百姓讲完了话，就当派军长率领他们。
And when the officers have finished speaking to the people, they shall appoint commanders of the armies at the head of the people.
20:10 你临近一座城，要攻打的时候，先要对城里的民宣告和平的话。
When you draw near to a city to fight against it, you shall proclaim peace to it.
20:11 他们若以和平的话回答你，给你开了城门，城里所有的人就都要给你作苦工，服事你；
And if it responds with peace to you and opens its gates to you, all the people found within it shall become your forced labor; and they shall serve you.
20:12 若不肯与你和好，反要与你打仗，你就要围困那城。
But if it does not make peace with you, but rather engages in battle with you, you shall besiege it.
20:13 耶和华你的神把城交付你的手，你就要用刀杀尽这城的男丁。
And when Jehovah your God delivers it into your hand, you shall slay every male in it with the edge of the sword.
20:14 惟有妇女、孩子、牲畜、和城内的一切，就是所有的掠物，你可以夺为己有；你可以享用从仇敌所取的掠物，那是耶和华你神所赐给你的。
But the women and the little ones and the beasts and all that is in the city, that is, all its spoil, you shall take as your plunder; and you shall enjoy the spoil of your
enemies, which Jehovah your God has given you.
20:15 离你甚远的各城，不是这些国民的城，你都要这样对待。
Thus shall you do to all the cities that are very far from you, which are not among the cities of these nations.
20:16 但这些国民的城，耶和华你神既赐你为业，其中凡有气息的，一个也不可让他存活；
But of the cities of these peoples which Jehovah your God is giving you as an inheritance, you shall not allow anything that breathes to live;
20:17 只要照耶和华你神所吩咐的，将赫人、亚摩利人、迦南人、比利洗人、希未人、耶布斯人，都灭绝净尽，
But you must utterly destroy them: the Hittites and the Amorites, the Canaanites and the Perizzites, the Hivites and the Jebusites, just as Jehovah your God has
commanded you,
20:18 免得他们教导你们照着他们去行一切可憎恶的事，就是他们向自己神所行的，以致你们得罪耶和华你们的神。
So that they do not teach you to do according to all their abominations which they do for their gods and you sin against Jehovah your God.
20:19 你若许久围困要攻打夺取一座城，就不可举斧砍坏那里的树木；你可以吃树上的果子，不可砍伐。田间的树木岂是人，叫你围困么？
When you besiege a city for many days, battling against it to capture it, you shall not destroy its trees by putting an axe to them; for you may eat of them, and you
shall not cut them down. For is the tree of the field a man, that it should be besieged by you?
20:20 惟独你所知道不是结果子的树木，你可以毁坏、砍伐，用以建造围城的设备，攻击那与你打仗的城，直到攻陷了。
However, a tree that you know is not a tree for food, you shall destroy and cut down, so that you may build a siegework against the city, which engages you in
battle, until it falls.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 21 章
21:1 在耶和华你神所赐你为业的地上，若发现被杀的人倒在田野，不知道是谁杀的；
If a slain man is found lying in the field in the land which Jehovah your God is giving you to possess, it not being known who slew him,
21:2 你的长老和审判官就要出去，从被杀的人那里量起，直量到四围的城邑。
Then your elders and judges shall go out and measure the distance to the cities that surround the slain man.
21:3 看那一座城离被杀的人最近，那城的长老就要从牛群中取一只未曾耕地、未曾负轭的母牛犊，
And the city that is nearest the slain man, that is, the elders of that city, shall take a heifer of the herd which has not been worked and has not drawn the yoke;
21:4 把母牛犊牵到流水、未曾耕种的溪谷去，在谷中打折母牛犊的颈项。
And the elders of that city shall bring the heifer down to a river valley that flows continually, which has not been plowed or sown, and break the neck of the heifer
there in the river valley.
21:5 利未子孙作祭司的要近前来；因为耶和华你的神拣选了他们事奉祂，在耶和华的名里祝福，所有争讼殴打的事都要凭他们的话判断。
And the priests, the sons of Levi, shall draw near; for Jehovah your God has chosen them to minister to Him and to bless in the name of Jehovah, and by their
word shall every dispute and every assault be settled.
21:6 那城的众长老，就是离被杀的人最近的，要在那溪谷中，在所打折颈项的母牛犊以上洗手。
And all the elders of that city that is nearest the slain man shall wash their hands over the heifer whose neck was broken in the river valley.
21:7 他们要申明说，我们的手未曾流这人的血；我们的眼也未曾看见这事。
And they shall answer and say, Our hands have not shed this blood, nor have our eyes seen it done.
21:8 耶和华阿，求你赦免你所救赎的以色列民，不要使流无辜血的罪归在你的百姓以色列中间。这样，流血的罪必得赦免。
Cover Your people Israel, whom You have ransomed, O Jehovah, and do not set the guilt of innocent blood in the midst of Your people Israel. And the guilt of the
blood shall be covered from them.
204
21:9 你行耶和华眼中看为正的事，就可以从你们中间完全除掉流无辜血的罪。
Thus you shall utterly remove the guilt of the innocent blood from your midst, for you do what is right in the sight of Jehovah.
21:10 你出去与仇敌争战的时候，耶和华你的神将他们交在你手中，你就掳了他们；
When you go out to fight against your enemies and Jehovah your God delivers them into your hands and you take them captive,
21:11 若在被掳的人中见有美貌的女子，恋慕她，要娶她为妻，
And you see a beautiful woman among the captives and desire her and would take her to yourself as a wife;
21:12 就可以领她到你家里去；她要剃头发，修指甲，
You shall bring her within your house, and she shall shave her head, trim her nails,
21:13 脱去被掳时所穿的衣服，住在你家里哀哭父母一整月，然后你可以与她同房；你作她的丈夫，她作你的妻子。
And take her clothes of captivity away from her. And she shall dwell in your house and mourn her father and mother for a full month. And afterward you shall go
in unto her and be her husband, and she shall be a wife to you.
21:14 后来你若不喜悦她，就要由她随意出去，绝不可为钱卖她，也不可当婢女待她，因为你玷辱了她。
And if after a time you do not delight in her, you shall let her go wherever she wishes. But you must not sell her for money; you shall not deal with her as a slave,
because you have humbled her.
21:15 人若有两个妻子，一个是所爱的，一个是所恶的；所爱的和所恶的都给他生了儿子，但长子是所恶之妻生的。
If a man has two wives, one beloved and the other despised, and both the beloved and the despised have borne him sons; and if the firstborn son is of the
despised woman;
21:16 到了把他所有的分给儿子承受的日子，他不可将所爱之妻生的儿子立为长子，在所恶之妻生的儿子以上，
Then in the day when he gives what he has to his sons as his inheritance, he may not make the son of the beloved woman the firstborn instead of the son of the
despised one, who is the firstborn.
21:17 却要认所恶之妻生的儿子为长子，将自己一切所有的，分给他双分；因这儿子是他力量强壮的时候首生的，长子的名分本是他的。
But he shall acknowledge the firstborn, the son of the despised woman, giving him a double portion of all that he has, for he is the beginning of his strength; the
right of the firstborn is his.
21:18 人若有顽梗悖逆的儿子，不听从父母的话，他们虽然惩治他，他仍不听从；
If a man has a stubborn and rebellious son, one who does not listen to the voice of his father nor to the voice of his mother; and though they chastise him, he
does not listen to them;
21:19 父母就要抓住他，将他带到本地的城门，到本城的长老那里，
Then his father and mother shall seize him and bring him forth to the elders of his city and to the gate of his place.
21:20 对本城的长老说，我们这儿子顽梗悖逆，不听从我们的话，是贪食好酒的人。
And they shall say to the elders of his city, This son of ours is stubborn and rebellious; he does not listen to our voice; he is a glutton and a drunkard.
21:21 本城的众人就要用石头将他打死。这样，你就把那恶从你们中间完全除掉，以色列众人听见都要害怕。
Then all the men of his city shall stone him with stones so that he dies. Thus you shall utterly remove the evil from your midst, and all Israel will hear and will fear.
21:22 人若犯该死的罪，被处死了，你将他挂在木头上，
And if in a man there is a sin, a cause worthy of death, and he is put to death, and you hang him on a tree;
21:23 他的尸首不可留在木头上过夜，必要当日将他葬埋，免得玷污了耶和华你神所赐你为业之地，因为被挂的人是神所咒诅的。
His corpse shall not remain overnight on the tree, but you must bury him on that day. For he who is hanged is accursed of God, and you shall not defile your land,
which Jehovah your God gives you as an inheritance.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 22 章
22:1 你看见弟兄的牛或羊失迷了路，不要佯为不见，总要把它牵回来交给你的弟兄。
You shall not see your brother's ox or his sheep straying and neglect them; you must return them to your brother.
22:2 你弟兄若离你远，或是你不认识他，就要牵到你家去，留在你那里，等你弟兄来寻找就还给他。
And if your brother is not nearby you, or if you do not know who he is, you shall bring it to your house. And it shall be with you until your brother demands it; then
you shall return it to him.
22:3 你的弟兄无论失落什么，或是驴，或是衣服，你遇见了，都要这样行，不可佯为不见。
And thus shall you do with his donkey; and thus shall you do with his clothing; and thus shall you do with any of your brother's lost things, which he has lost and
you have found. You may not neglect them.
22:4 你看见弟兄的牛或驴跌倒在路上，不要佯为不见，总要帮助他拉起来。
You shall not see your brother's donkey or his ox fallen by the way and neglect them; you must lift them up with him.
22:5 妇女不可穿戴男子所穿戴的，男子也不可穿妇女的衣服，因为行这些事的人，都是耶和华你神所憎恶的。
A woman shall not put on a man's belongings, nor shall a man wear a woman's garment; for everyone who does these things is an abomination to Jehovah
your God.
22:6 你若在路上遇见鸟窝，或在树上或在地上，里头有雏或有蛋，母鸟伏在雏上或在蛋上，你不可连母带雏一并取去。
If you happen to come upon a bird's nest in the way, in any tree or on the ground, and in it are young birds or eggs, and the mother sitting upon the young birds
or upon the eggs, you shall not take the mother with the young.
22:7 总要放母，只可取雏；这样你就可以得福，日子得以长久。
You must let the mother go, but the young you may take for yourself, that it may go well with you and that you may extend your days.
22:8 你建造新房屋时，要在房顶的四围安栏杆，免得有人从房上掉下来，你就使流血的罪归于你家。
When you build a new house, you shall make a low wall around the edge of your roof so that you do not put the guilt of blood on your house if someone falls
from it.
22:9 不可把两样种子种在你的葡萄园里，免得你撒种所得的收成，和葡萄园的出产，都没收归与圣所。
You shall not sow your vineyard with two kinds of seed, lest the full produce, the seed which you sow, be forfeited to the sanctuary, as well as the increase of the
vineyard.
22:10 不可并用牛、驴耕地。
You shall not plow with an ox and a donkey together.
205
22:11 不可穿羊毛、细麻两样搀杂料作的衣服。
You shall not wear clothing of mixed materials, of wool and linen together.
22:12 你要在所披的衣服上四角作繸子。
You shall make twisted cords upon the four corners of your garment with which you cover yourself.
22:13 人若娶妻，与她同房之后恨恶她，
If a man takes a wife and goes in unto her, and later despises her,
22:14 诬指她行了可耻的事，将恶名加在她身上，说，我娶了这女子，与她亲近，见她不是处女；
And charges her with shameful deeds and spreads an evil report about her, and says, I took this woman, and when I drew near to her, I did not find her to be a
virgin;
22:15 女子的父母就要把女子贞洁的凭据拿出来，带到本城门长老那里。
Then the girl's father and her mother shall take and bring forth the evidence of the girl's virginity to the elders of the city at the gate.
22:16 女子的父亲要对长老说，我将我的女儿给这人为妻，他却恨恶她，
And the girl's father shall say to the elders, I gave my daughter to this man as a wife, but he despised her;
22:17 诬指她行了可耻的事，说，我见你的女儿不是处女；其实这就是我女儿贞洁的凭据。父母就要把那布铺在本城的长老面前。
And now he charges her with shameful deeds, saying, I did not find your daughter to be a virgin. But this is the evidence of my daughter's virginity. And they shall
spread the cloth before the elders of the city.
22:18 本城的长老要拿住那人，惩治他；
Then the elders of that city shall take the man and chastise him;
22:19 并要罚他一百舍客勒银子，给女子的父亲，因为他将恶名加在以色列的一个处女身上。女子要仍作他的妻子，终身不可休她。
And they shall fine him one hundred shekels of silver and give it to the girl's father, for he spread an evil report against a virgin of Israel. And she shall be his wife;
he may not send her away all his days.
22:20 但这事若是真的，女子并不是处女，
But if this claim is true-the girl was not found to be a virgin -
22:21 就要将女子带到她父家的门口，本城的人要用石头将她打死；因为她在父家行了淫乱，在以色列中作了愚妄的事。这样，你就把那恶从你们中间完
全除掉。
They shall bring the girl out to the entrance of her father's house, and the men of her city shall stone her with stones so that she dies; for she has done folly in
Israel by committing fornication in her father's house. Thus you shall utterly remove the evil from your midst.
22:22 若发现人与有丈夫的妇人行淫，就要将奸夫淫妇一并治死。这样，你就把那恶从以色列中完全除掉。
If a man is found lying with a woman married to a husband, both of them shall die, the man who was lying with the woman and the woman. Thus you shall
utterly remove the evil from Israel.
22:23 若有处女已经许配丈夫，有男子在城里遇见她，与她行淫，
If a girl who is a virgin is engaged to a man, and a man finds her in the city and lies with her;
22:24 你们就要把这二人带到本城门，用石头打死；打死女子，是因为她虽在城里却没有喊叫；打死男子，是因为他玷辱了邻舍的妻子。这样，你就把那
恶从你们中间完全除掉。
You shall bring both of them out to the gate of that city and stone them with stones so that they die, the girl because she did not cry out in the city, and the man
because he humbled his neighbor's wife. Thus you shall utterly remove the evil from your midst.
22:25 若有男子在田野遇见已经许配人的女子，强与她行淫，只要将那与她行淫的男子治死。
But if the man finds the engaged girl in the field, and the man overpowers her and lies with her, only the man who was lying with her shall die.
22:26 但不可办女子；她本没有该死的罪，这事就像人起来攻击邻舍，将他杀了一样。
But to the girl you shall not do anything; there is no sin worthy of death with the girl; for as it is when a man rises up against his neighbor and slays him, so is this
matter.
22:27 因为男子是在田野遇见那已经许配人的女子，女子喊叫，并无人救她。
For he found her in the field; the engaged girl cried out and there was no one to save her.
22:28 若有男子遇见没有许配人的处女，抓住她，与她行淫，被人看见，
If a man finds a girl who is a virgin and is not engaged, and seizes her and lies with her, and they are found;
22:29 这与她行淫的男子就要拿五十舍客勒银子给女子的父亲；因他玷辱了这女子，就要娶她为妻，终身不可休她。
The man who was lying with her shall give fifty shekels of silver to the girl's father. And she shall be his wife, because he humbled her; he may not send her away
all his days.
22:30 人不可娶父亲的妻子，以致掀开他父亲的衣边。
A man shall not take his father's wife, so that he does not uncover the skirt of his father's garment.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 23 章
23:1 凡外肾受伤的，或被阉割的，不可入耶和华的会。
He who has been wounded in the testicles or has the male organ cut off shall not enter the congregation of Jehovah.
23:2 私生子不可入耶和华的会；他的子孙，即使到第十代，也不可入耶和华的会。
An illegitimate child shall not enter the congregation of Jehovah; even to the tenth generation, no descendant of his shall enter the congregation of Jehovah.
23:3 亚扪人或摩押人不可入耶和华的会；他们的子孙，即使到第十代，也永不可入耶和华的会。
An Ammonite or a Moabite shall not enter the congregation of Jehovah; even to the tenth generation, no descendant of theirs shall enter the congregation of
Jehovah forever;
23:4 因为你们出埃及的时候，他们没有拿食物和水在路上迎接你们，又因他们雇了米所波大米的毗夺人比珥的儿子巴兰，来和你们作对，咒诅你们。
Because they did not come to meet you with bread and water in the way when you were coming out of Egypt, and because they hired Balaam the son of Beor
from Pethor of Mesopotamia against you, to curse you.
23:5 耶和华你的神不肯听从巴兰，却使那咒诅变为对你的祝福，因为耶和华你的神爱你。
But Jehovah your God would not listen to Balaam, and Jehovah your God turned the curse into a blessing for you, for Jehovah your God loved you.
23:6 你一生一世永不可为他们寻求平安和好处。
206
You shall not seek peace with them nor prosperity with them all your days forever.
23:7 不可憎恶以东人，因为他是你的弟兄。不可憎恶埃及人，因为你在他的地上作过寄居的。
You shall not abhor an Edomite, for he is your brother. You shall not abhor an Egyptian, for you were a sojourner in his land.
23:8 他们所生的子孙，到第三代，就可以入耶和华的会。
The children of the third generation who have been begotten of them may enter the congregation of Jehovah.
23:9 你出去攻打仇敌，扎营的时候，要保守自己，避开各样恶事。
When you as a camp go forth against your enemies, you shall keep yourself from every evil thing.
23:10 你们中间，若有人夜间因意外的事而不洁净，就要出到营外，不可进入营中；
If there is among you a man who becomes unclean because of an accident in the night, he shall go outside the camp; he shall not enter into the midst of the
camp.
23:11 到傍晚的时候，他要用水洗澡；及至日落，就可以进入营中。
But when evening approaches, he shall bathe in water; and when the sun goes down, he shall enter into the midst of the camp.
23:12 你在营外也该定出一个地方，你可以出到那里便溺。
And you shall have an assigned place outside the camp, and there you shall go out;
23:13 在你器械之中当有一把锹，你出营外便溺以后，可用以铲土，转身掩盖粪便。
And you shall have a spade among your tools, and when you relieve yourself outside the camp, you shall dig with it and turn to cover your excrement.
23:14 因为耶和华你的神在你营中行走，要救护你，将仇敌交给你，所以你的营应当圣别，免得祂见你那里有秽物，就转身离开你。
For Jehovah your God walks in the midst of your camp to rescue you and deliver up your enemies before you; therefore your camp shall be holy, and He must not
see any indecent thing among you, lest He turn back from going after you.
23:15 若有奴仆离开主人逃到你那里，你不可将他交付他的主人；
You shall not deliver to his master the slave who has escaped from his master to you;
23:16 他必在你中间与你同住，在你的一座城中，随他所喜悦的，在他所选择的地方居住；你不可欺负他。
He shall dwell with you, even in your midst, in the place which he chooses among your towns, wherever he pleases; you shall not oppress him.
23:17 以色列的女子中不可有妓女；以色列的男子中不可有娈童。
There shall not be a cult prostitute among the daughters of Israel, nor shall there be a cult prostitute among the sons of Israel.
23:18 娼妓所得的钱，或娈童所得的价，你不可带入耶和华你神的殿还愿，因为这两样都是耶和华你神所憎恶的。
You shall not bring the payment for a harlot or the price for a dog into the house of Jehovah your God for any vow, for both of them are an abomination to
Jehovah your God.
23:19 你不可向你弟兄取利息，无论是银钱的利息，粮食的利息，或是什么可生利之物的利息，都不可取。
You shall not make your brother pay interest, interest on money, interest on food, interest on anything on which one pays interest.
23:20 你可以向外邦人取利息，但不可向你弟兄取利息。这样，耶和华你神必在你所进去得为业的地上，在你手所办的一切事上，赐福与你。
You may make a foreigner pay interest; but you shall not make your brother pay interest, in order that Jehovah your God may bless you in all your undertakings
upon the land which you are entering to possess.
23:21 你向耶和华你的神许愿，偿还不可迟延；因为耶和华你的神必定向你追讨，你不偿还就有罪。
When you vow a vow to Jehovah your God, you shall not delay in paying it; for Jehovah your God would certainly require it of you, and it will become sin in you.
23:22 你若不许愿，倒无罪。
But if you refrain from vowing, it will not become sin in you.
23:23 你嘴里所出的，就是你亲口应许的，要照你向耶和华你神甘心所许的愿，谨守遵行。
What proceeds out of your lips you shall keep and do, as you have vowed to Jehovah your God voluntarily, which you have promised with your mouth.
23:24 你进了邻舍的葡萄园，可以随意吃葡萄，直到吃饱，只是不可装在器皿中。
When you enter your neighbor's vineyard, you may eat grapes as your soul desires, until you are satisfied; but you shall not put any into a vessel of yours.
23:25 你进了邻舍田间站着的禾稼，可以用手摘些穗子，只是不可用镰刀割取禾稼。
When you go into your neighbor's standing grain, you may pluck some ears with your hand; but you shall not wield a sickle upon your neighbor's standing grain.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 24 章
24:1 人娶女子为妻，见她有什么不当的事，不喜悦她，就写休书交在她手中，打发她离开夫家；
When a man takes a woman and marries her, if she does not find favor in his sight, because he has found some indecency in her; and he writes her a bill of
divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her away from his house;
24:2 妇人离开夫家以后，去嫁了别人；
And she goes forth from his house and goes to be another man's;
24:3 若是后夫恨恶她，写休书交在她手中，打发她离开夫家，或是娶她为妻的后夫死了；
And the latter husband despises her and writes her a bill of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her away from his house; or if the latter husband, who has
taken her as his wife, dies;
24:4 那打发她离开的前夫，不可在妇人受玷污之后再娶她为妻，因为这在耶和华面前是可憎恶的；你不可使耶和华你神所赐给你为业之地陷入罪中。
Then the former husband, who sent her away, may not return to take her again to be his wife after she has been defiled. For that is an abomination before
Jehovah, and you shall not cause the land to sin, which Jehovah your God is giving you as an inheritance.
24:5 新娶妻的人不可从军出征，也不可派他办理什么公事，可以免役在家一年，使他所娶的妻子快活。
When a man takes a new wife, he shall not go out with the army, nor shall he be charged with any duty; he shall be free at home for one year, and he shall
make his wife happy, whom he has taken.
24:6 不可拿人的磨或上磨石作抵押，因为这是拿人的性命作抵押。
One shall not take a handmill or an upper millstone as a pledge, for he takes the livelihood as a pledge.
24:7 若遇见人拐带以色列人中的一个弟兄，当奴仆待他，或是卖了他；那拐带人的必要治死。这样，你就把那恶从你们中间完全除掉。
If a man is found kidnapping someone from among his brothers of the children of Israel, and deals with him as a slave or sells him; then that kidnapper shall die.
Thus you shall utterly remove the evil from your midst.
24:8 在痲疯的灾病上，你们要谨慎，照祭司利未人一切所指教你们的，尽力谨守遵行；我怎样吩咐他们，你们就怎样谨守遵行。
207
Be careful in a case of leprosy to carefully keep and do all that the Levitical priests instruct you; as I commanded them, so shall you be certain to do.
24:9 当记得你们出埃及后，在路上，耶和华你神向米利暗所行的事。
Remember what Jehovah your God did to Miriam on the way when you came out of Egypt.
24:10 你借给邻舍，不拘是什么，不可进他家拿他的抵押；
When you lend anything to your neighbor, you shall not enter his house in order to take his pledge.
24:11 要站在外面，等那向你借贷的人把抵押拿出来交给你。
You shall stand outside, and the man to whom you are lending shall bring the pledge out to you.
24:12 他若是穷人，你不可留他的抵押过夜。
And if he is a poor man, you shall not sleep with his pledge;
24:13 日落的时候，总要把抵押还他，使他用那件衣服盖着睡觉，他就为你祝福；这在耶和华你神面前就是你的义了。
You must return his pledge to him when the sun goes down, so that he may sleep in his mantle and bless you; and it will be righteousness to you before Jehovah
your God.
24:14 困苦穷乏的雇工，无论是你的弟兄，或是在你地上、你城里寄居的，你不可欺压他。
You shall not oppress a poor and needy hired servant among your brothers or among the sojourners with you, who are in your land within your gates.
24:15 要当日给他工价，不可等到日落，(因为他穷苦，靠这工价养生，)恐怕他向耶和华呼求控告你，你就有罪了。
On the day he earns it, you shall give him his wages, and the sun shall not go down upon it (for he is poor and his life depends on it); lest he cry against you to
Jehovah and it become sin in you.
24:16 父亲不可因儿子的缘故被处死，儿子也不可因父亲的缘故被处死；各人要因自己的罪被处死。
Fathers shall not be put to death because of their children, nor shall children be put to death because of their fathers; every man shall be put to death for his own
sin.
24:17 你不可向寄居的和孤儿屈枉公理，也不可拿寡妇的衣裳作抵押。
You shall not distort justice due a sojourner or an orphan, nor shall you take a widow's garment as a pledge.
24:18 要记念你在埃及作过奴仆，耶和华你的神从那里将你救赎出来，所以我吩咐你这样行。
But you shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt and that Jehovah your God ransomed you from there; therefore I am commanding you to do this thing.
24:19 你在田间收割庄稼，若忘下一捆在田里，不可回去拾取，要留给寄居的与孤儿寡妇；这样，耶和华你神必在你手所办的一切事上，赐福与你。
When you reap your harvest in your field and you forget a sheaf in the field, you shall not turn back to gather it; it shall be for the sojourner, the orphan, and the
widow, in order that Jehovah your God may bless you in all your undertakings.
24:20 你打橄榄树，枝上余剩的，不可再打；要留给寄居的与孤儿寡妇。
When you beat down the fruit of your olive tree, you shall not go over the boughs afterward; it shall be for the sojourner, the orphan, and the widow.
24:21 你摘取葡萄园的葡萄，所余剩的，不可再摘，要留给寄居的与孤儿寡妇。
When you cut the grapes from your vineyard, you shall not glean afterward; it shall be for the sojourner, the orphan, and the widow.
24:22 你要记念你在埃及地作过奴仆，所以我吩咐你这样行。
And you shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt; therefore I am commanding you to do this thing.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 25 章
25:1 人与人之间若有争讼，前来求审，审判官审判他们，要定义人为义，定恶人为恶。
If there is a dispute between men, and they approach the court, and the judges judge them, they shall justify the righteous and condemn the wicked.
25:2 恶人若该受责打，审判官就要叫他伏下，当面按着他罪恶的轻重照数责打。
And if the wicked man is worthy of beating, the judge shall make him lie down and have him beaten before him as is sufficient for his wickedness, by number.
25:3 只可打他四十下，不可过数；恐怕过了数，多打了他，便是轻贱你的弟兄了。
Forty blows he may give him; he shall not exceed, lest, in exceeding, he beat him beyond these with many blows and your brother be degraded before your eyes.
25:4 牛踹谷的时候，不可笼住它的嘴。
You shall not muzzle an ox while it treads out grain.
25:5 兄弟同住，若死了一个，没有儿子，死人的妻子不可出嫁外人；她丈夫的兄弟当与她同房，娶她为妻，向她尽丈夫兄弟的本分。
If brothers dwell together, and one of them dies, and he has no son, the wife of the deceased man shall not become the wife of a stranger outside the family; her
husband's brother shall go in unto her and take her as his wife, and he shall do the duty of a husband's brother for her.
25:6 妇人生的长子必归已死之兄弟的名下，免得他的名从以色列中被涂抹。
And the firstborn whom she bears shall assume the name of his deceased brother, so that his name is not blotted out of Israel.
25:7 那人若不愿意娶他兄弟的妻子，他兄弟的妻子就要到城门长老那里，说，我丈夫的兄弟不肯在以色列中为他兄弟立名，不肯向我尽丈夫兄弟的本分。
And if the man does not desire to take his brother's wife, his brother's wife shall go up to the gate to the elders and say, My husband's brother refuses to raise up
a name in Israel to his brother; he is not willing to do the duty of a husband's brother for me.
25:8 本城的长老就要召那人来，对他说明；他若执意说，我不愿意娶她，
Then the elders of his city shall call him and speak to him. And if he persists and says, I do not desire to take her;
25:9 他兄弟的妻子就要当着长老到那人的跟前，脱了他脚上的鞋，吐唾沫在他脸上，回应说，凡不为自己兄弟建立家室的，都要这样待他。
Then his brother's wife shall draw near to him in the sight of the elders and remove his sandal from off his foot, and she shall spit in his face and respond and say,
Thus shall it be done to the man who does not build up his brother's house.
25:10 在以色列中，他的名必称为脱鞋者之家。
And his name shall be called in Israel, The house of him whose sandal has been removed.
25:11 若有人与弟兄争斗，这人的妻子近前来，要救她丈夫脱离那打她丈夫之人的手，伸手抓住那人的下体，
When two men fight together, a man and his brother, and the wife of the one comes near to rescue her husband from the hand of him who is beating him, and
she puts forth her hand and takes hold of his private parts;
25:12 就要砍断妇人的手；你的眼不可怜惜她。
Then you shall cut off her hand; your eye shall not pity her.
25:13 你囊中不可有一大一小两样的法码。
You shall not have in your bag differing weights, one heavy and one light.
208
25:14 你家里不可有一大一小两样的量器。
You shall not have in your house differing measures, one large and one small.
25:15 当用足重公道的法码，足量公道的量器。这样，在耶和华你神所赐你的地上，你的日子就得以长久。
A full and righteous weight you shall have, and a full and righteous measure you shall have, in order that your days may be extended upon the land which
Jehovah your God is giving you.
25:16 因为行这些不义之事的人，都是耶和华你神所憎恶的。
For everyone who does these things, everyone who does unrighteousness, is an abomination to Jehovah your God.
25:17 你要记得你们出埃及的时候，亚玛力人在路上怎样待你。
Remember what Amalek did to you on the way when you came out of Egypt,
25:18 他们在路上遇见你，趁你疲乏困倦的时候，击杀你尽后边软弱的人，并不敬畏神。
That he met you on the way and struck you at the rear, struck all those who were worn out at your rear, when you were faint and weary; and he did not fear God.
25:19 所以耶和华你神使你不被四围的一切仇敌扰乱，在耶和华你神赐你承受为业的地上得安息；那时，你要将亚玛力的名号从天下涂抹了，不可忘记。
Therefore when Jehovah your God gives you rest from all your enemies surrounding you, in the land which Jehovah your God is giving you as an inheritance to
possess, you shall blot out the memory of Amalek from under heaven; you shall not forget.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 26 章
26:1 你进去得了耶和华你神所赐你为业之地，住在那里，
And when you enter the land which Jehovah your God is giving you as an inheritance, and you possess it and dwell in it,
26:2 就要将地里各种初熟的出产，就是从耶和华你神赐你的地上所收的，取些来盛在筐子里，往耶和华你神所选择给祂名居住的地方去，
You shall take some of the first of all the fruit of the ground which you shall bring from your land, which Jehovah your God is giving you, and you shall put it in a
basket and go to the place where Jehovah your God will choose to cause His name to dwell.
26:3 见当时作祭司的，对他说，我今日向耶和华你的神表明，我已进入耶和华向我们列祖起誓要赐给我们的地。
And you shall go to the priest who is serving in those days and say to him, I declare to Jehovah your God today that I have entered the land which Jehovah swore
to our fathers to give us.
26:4 祭司就要从你手里取过筐子来，放在耶和华你神的坛前。
And the priest shall take the basket from your hand and place it before the altar of Jehovah your God.
26:5 你要在耶和华你神面前回应说，我的祖先原是一个将亡的亚兰人，下到埃及寄居；他人口稀少，在那里却成了又大又强、人数众多的国。
And you shall respond and say before Jehovah your God, A perishing Aramaean was my father; and he went down to Egypt and sojourned there, few in number;
and he became there a great and mighty and numerous nation.
26:6 埃及人恶待我们，苦害我们，将苦工加在我们身上。
And the Egyptians ill-treated us and afflicted us and put hard work upon us;
26:7 我们哀求耶和华我们列祖的神，耶和华听见了我们的声音，看见了我们所受的困苦、劳碌、欺压，
But we cried out to Jehovah, the God of our fathers, and Jehovah heard our voice, and saw our affliction and our labor and our oppression.
26:8 祂就用大能的手和伸出来的膀臂，并大而可畏的事与神迹奇事，领我们出了埃及，
And Jehovah brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm and by great terror and by signs and wonders.
26:9 将我们领进这地方，把这流奶与蜜之地赐给我们。
And He has brought us to this place and has given us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey.
26:10 耶和华阿，你看，现在我把你所赐给我地里初熟的出产奉了来。随后你要把筐子放在耶和华你神面前，在耶和华你的神面前下拜。
And now I have just brought the first of the fruit of the ground, which You, O Jehovah, have given me. And you shall place it before Jehovah your God and bow
down before Jehovah your God.
26:11 你和利未人，并在你们中间寄居的，要因耶和华你神所赐你和你家的一切好处而欢乐。
And you and the Levite and the sojourner in your midst shall rejoice in all the good which Jehovah your God has given to you and to your household.
26:12 每逢第三年，就是十分取一之年，你把一切出产的十分之一完全取出，就要分给利未人和寄居的，与孤儿寡妇，使他们在你城中可以吃得饱足。
When you have finished giving all the tithes of your produce in the third year, the year of the tithe, you shall give it to the Levite, the sojourner, the orphan, and the
widow, that they may eat within your gates and be satisfied.
26:13 你又要在耶和华你神面前说，我已将圣物从我家里拿出来，也给了利未人和寄居的，与孤儿寡妇，是照你所吩咐我的一切命令；你的命令我都没有
违犯，也没有忘记。
And you shall say before Jehovah your God, I have removed what is holy from out of my house, and I have also given it to the Levite and the sojourner, to the
orphan and the widow, according to Your whole commandment, which You have commanded me; I have not transgressed any of Your commandments and I
have not forgotten them.
26:14 我守丧的时候，没有吃这圣物；不洁净的时候，没有拿出来，也没有送给死人。我听从了耶和华我神的话，都照你所吩咐的行了。
I have not eaten any of it in my sorrow, nor have I removed any of it while I was unclean, nor have I given any of it to the dead. I have listened to the voice of
Jehovah my God; I have done according to all that You have commanded me.
26:15 求你从天上，从你圣别的居所垂看，赐福给你的百姓以色列与你所赐给我们的地，就是你向我们列祖起誓要赐给我们的流奶与蜜之地。
Look down from Your holy habitation, from heaven, and bless Your people Israel and the ground which You have given us, as You swore to our fathers, a land
flowing with milk and honey.
26:16 耶和华你的神今日吩咐你行这些律例和典章，所以你要全心全魂谨守遵行。
This day Jehovah your God is commanding you to do these statutes and judgments; therefore you shall keep them and do them with all your heart and with all
your soul.
26:17 你今日宣告耶和华是你的神，并宣告要行祂的道路，谨守祂的律例、诫命和典章，听从祂的话。
It is Jehovah whom you have today declared to be your God and that you will walk in His ways and keep His statutes and His commandments and His
judgments, and will listen to His voice.
26:18 耶和华今日照祂所应许你的，也宣告你是祂自己的珍宝，是祂的子民，使你谨守祂的一切诫命；
And it is Jehovah who has today declared you to be a people for His personal treasure, even as He promised you; and that you will keep all His commandments;
209
26:19 又使你得称赞、美名、尊荣，超越祂所造的万民，并照祂所说的，使你归耶和华你神为圣别的子民。
And that He will set you high above all the nations which He has made, for praise and for a name and for honor; and that you will be a holy people to Jehovah
your God, as He has spoken.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 27 章
27:1 摩西和以色列的众长老吩咐百姓说，你们要遵守我今日所吩咐的一切诫命。
And Moses, with the elders of Israel, commanded the people, saying, Keep the whole commandment which I am commanding you today.
27:2 你们过约但河，进入耶和华你神所赐给你的地，当天要为自己立起几块大石头，墁上石灰；
And in the day when you cross over the Jordan into the land which Jehovah your God is giving you, you shall erect for yourself large stones; and you shall coat
them with plaster.
27:3 你过了河，得以进入耶和华你神所赐你流奶与蜜之地，正如耶和华你列祖之神所应许你的，就要把这律法的一切话写在石头上。
And you shall write upon them all the words of this law when you cross over, in order that you may enter the land which Jehovah your God is giving you, a land
flowing with milk and honey, as Jehovah, the God of your fathers, promised to you.
27:4 你们过了约但河，就要在以巴路山上照我今日所吩咐的，将这些石头立起来，墁上石灰。
And when you cross over the Jordan, you shall erect these stones, concerning which I am commanding you today, on Mount Ebal; and you shall coat them with
plaster.
27:5 在那里要为耶和华你的神筑一座石坛；在石头上不可动铁器。
And you shall build there an altar to Jehovah your God, an altar of stones; you shall not use an iron tool upon them;
27:6 要用没有凿过的石头筑耶和华你神的坛，然后在坛上将燔祭献给耶和华你的神。
With unhewn stones you shall build the altar of Jehovah your God. Then you shall offer up burnt offerings upon it to Jehovah your God;
27:7 又要献平安祭，且在那里吃，在耶和华你的神面前欢乐。
And you shall sacrifice peace offerings and eat there, and you shall rejoice before Jehovah your God.
27:8 你要将这律法的一切话清清楚楚的写在石头上。
Then you shall write upon the stones all the words of this law very clearly.
27:9 摩西和祭司利未人告诉以色列众人说，以色列阿，要静默细听；你今日成了耶和华你神的子民。
And Moses, with the Levitical priests, spoke to all Israel, saying, Be silent and hear, O Israel; this day you have become the people of Jehovah your God.
27:10 所以你要听从耶和华你神的话，遵行祂的诫命和律例，就是我今日所吩咐你的。
Therefore you shall listen to the voice of Jehovah your God, and do His commandments and His statutes, which I am commanding you today.
27:11 当日，摩西吩咐百姓说，
And Moses commanded the people on that day, saying,
27:12 你们过了约但河，西缅、利未、犹大、以萨迦、约瑟、便雅悯这些支派的人，要站在基利心山上为百姓祝福。
These shall stand upon Mount Gerizim to bless the people when you cross over the Jordan: Simeon and Levi and Judah and Issachar and Joseph and Benjamin;
27:13 流便、迦得、亚设、西布伦、但、拿弗他利这些支派的人，要站在以巴路山上宣布咒诅。
And these shall stand upon Mount Ebal for cursing: Reuben, Gad, and Asher, and Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali.
27:14 利未人要向以色列众人高声宣告说，
And the Levites shall respond and say to all the men of Israel with a loud voice,
27:15 有人制造耶和华所憎恶的雕像或铸像，就是工匠的手所作的，在暗中设立，那人必受咒诅。百姓都要答应说，阿们。
Cursed is the man who makes an idol or a molten image, an abomination to Jehovah, the work of the craftsman's hands, and puts it in a secret place. And all
the people shall answer and say, Amen.
27:16 轻慢父母的，必受咒诅。百姓都要说，阿们。
Cursed is he who dishonors his father or his mother. And all the people shall say, Amen.
27:17 挪移邻舍地界的，必受咒诅。百姓都要说，阿们。
Cursed is he who moves his neighbor's boundary marker. And all the people shall say, Amen.
27:18 使瞎子走错路的，必受咒诅。百姓都要说，阿们。
Cursed is he who leads astray a blind man on the way. And all the people shall say, Amen.
27:19 向寄居的和孤儿寡妇屈枉公理的，必受咒诅。百姓都要说，阿们。
Cursed is he who distorts justice due a sojourner, an orphan, or a widow. And all the people shall say, Amen.
27:20 与父亲的妻子行淫的，必受咒诅，因为掀开他父亲的衣边。百姓都要说，阿们。
Cursed is he who lies with his father's wife, for he uncovers the skirt of his father's garment. And all the people shall say, Amen.
27:21 与兽淫合的，必受咒诅。百姓都要说，阿们。
Cursed is he who lies with any animal. And all the people shall say, Amen.
27:22 与异母同父，或异父同母的姊妹行淫的，必受咒诅。百姓都要说，阿们。
Cursed is he who lies with his sister, his father's daughter or his mother's daughter. And all the people shall say, Amen.
27:23 与岳母行淫的，必受咒诅。百姓都要说，阿们。
Cursed is he who lies with his mother-in-law. And all the people shall say, Amen.
27:24 暗中杀害邻舍的，必受咒诅。百姓都要说，阿们。
Cursed is he who slays his neighbor secretly. And all the people shall say, Amen.
27:25 受贿赂杀害人，流无辜人之血的，必受咒诅。百姓都要说，阿们。
Cursed is he who takes payment to slay someone of innocent blood. And all the people shall say, Amen.
27:26 不坚守遵行这律法言语的，必受咒诅。百姓都要说，阿们。
Cursed is he who does not confirm the words of this law by doing them. And all the people shall say, Amen.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 28 章
210
28:1 你若留意听从耶和华你神的话，谨守遵行祂的一切诫命，就是我今日所吩咐你的，耶和华你的神必使你超越地上的万民。
And if you listen diligently to the voice of Jehovah your God and are certain to do all His commandments, which I am commanding you today, Jehovah your God
will set you high above all the nations of the earth;
28:2 你若听从耶和华你神的话，以下这一切的福必临到你，赶上你：
And all these blessings will come upon you and overtake you if you listen to the voice of Jehovah your God.
28:3 你在城里必蒙福，在田间也必蒙福。
Blessed shall you be in the city, and blessed shall you be in the field.
28:4 你身所生的、地所产的、牲畜所下的，以及牛犊、羊羔，都必蒙福。
Blessed shall be the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground and the fruit of your animals, the offspring of your cattle and the young of your flock.
28:5 你的筐子和你的抟面盆，都必蒙福。
Blessed shall be your basket and your kneading bowl.
28:6 你入也蒙福，出也蒙福。
Blessed shall you be when you come in, and blessed shall you be when you go out.
28:7 仇敌起来攻击你，耶和华必使他们在你面前被击败；他们从一条路出来攻击你，必在你面前从七条路逃跑。
Jehovah will cause your enemies, who rise up against you, to be struck down before you; on one road they will come out against you, but on seven roads they
will flee before you.
28:8 在你仓房里，并你手所办的一切事上，耶和华必使所命定的福临到你；耶和华你神也要在所给你的地上，赐福与你。
Jehovah will command the blessing upon you in your storehouses and in all your undertakings; and He will bless you in the land which Jehovah your God is
giving you.
28:9 你若谨守耶和华你神的诫命，行祂的道路，祂必照着向你所起的誓，立你作圣别的子民，归祂自己。
Jehovah will establish you as a holy people to Himself, as He swore to you, if you keep the commandments of Jehovah your God and walk in His ways.
28:10 地上万民见你是称为耶和华名下的人，就要惧怕你。
And all the peoples of the earth will see that you are called by Jehovah's name, and they will be afraid of you.
28:11 耶和华在祂向你列祖起誓要赐给你的地上，必使你身所生的、牲畜所下的、地所产的，都丰富有余。
And Jehovah will give you an excess of prosperity in the fruit of your womb and in the fruit of your animals and in the fruit of your ground, upon the ground which
Jehovah swore to your fathers to give you.
28:12 耶和华必为你开祂丰盈的宝库，就是天，按时降雨在你的地上，并且在你手所办的一切事上，赐福与你。你必借给许多国民，却不至向他们借贷。
Jehovah will open up to you His good treasury, the heavens, to give rain for your land in its season and to bless all your undertakings. And you will lend to many
nations, but you will not borrow.
28:13 你若听从耶和华你神的诫命，就是我今日所吩咐你谨守遵行的，耶和华就必使你作首不作尾，居上不居下；
And Jehovah will make you the head and not the tail, and you will tend only upward, and you will not tend downward, if you will listen to the commandments of
Jehovah your God, which I am commanding you today to keep and to do.
28:14 我今日所吩咐你的一切话，你不可偏离左右，去随从事奉别神。
And you shall not turn aside from any of the words which I am commanding you today, to the right or to the left, to go after other gods to serve them.
28:15 你若不听从耶和华你神的话，不谨守遵行祂的一切诫命和律例，就是我今日所吩咐你的，以下这一切的咒诅必临到你，赶上你：
But if you do not listen to the voice of Jehovah your God and are not certain to do all His commandments and His statutes, which I am commanding you today, all
these curses will come upon you and overtake you.
28:16 你在城里必受咒诅，在田间也必受咒诅。
Cursed shall you be in the city, and cursed shall you be in the field.
28:17 你的筐子和你的抟面盆，都必受咒诅。
Cursed shall be your basket and your kneading bowl.
28:18 你身所生的、地所产的，以及牛犊、羊羔，都必受咒诅。
Cursed shall be the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground, the offspring of your cattle and the young of your flock.
28:19 你入也受咒诅，出也受咒诅。
Cursed shall you be when you come in, and cursed shall you be when you go out.
28:20 耶和华因你行恶离弃祂，必在你所作的，在你手所办的一切事上，使咒诅、扰乱、责罚临到你，直到你被毁灭，速速的灭亡。
Jehovah will send to you cursing, discomfiture, and rebuke in all your undertakings which you do, until you are destroyed and until you perish quickly, because of
the evil of your practices through which you have abandoned Me.
28:21 耶和华必使瘟疫贴在你身上，直到祂将你从所进去得为业的地上灭绝。
Jehovah will make a plague cling to you until He has consumed you from off the land which you are entering to possess.
28:22 耶和华要用痨病、热病、炎症、炙热、干旱、旱风、霉烂攻击你；这些都要追赶你，直到你灭亡。
Jehovah will strike you with consuming disease and fever and inflammation, and with burning heat and drought, and with blight and mildew; and these will
pursue you until you perish.
28:23 你头上的天要变为铜，你脚下的地要变为铁。
And your heaven, which is above your head, will be brass, and the land, which is under you, iron.
28:24 耶和华要使降在你地上的雨变为尘沙，从天临在你身上，直到你被毁灭。
Jehovah will make the rain of your land powder and dust; from heaven it will come down upon you until you are destroyed.
28:25 耶和华必使你在仇敌面前被击败，你从一条路出去攻击他们，必在他们面前从七条路逃跑。你必成为地上万国战惊的因由。
Jehovah will cause you to be struck down before your enemies; on one road you will go out against them, but on seven roads you will flee before them. And you
will be a source of shuddering to all the kingdoms of the earth.
28:26 你的尸首必给空中一切的飞鸟和地上的走兽作食物，并无人哄赶。
And your corpse will become food for all the birds of the sky and for the beasts of the earth; and no one will frighten them away.
28:27 耶和华必用埃及的疮、瘤、癣、疥击打你，使你不能得医治。
Jehovah will strike you with the boils of Egypt, tumors, scabs, and itching, of which you cannot be healed.
28:28 耶和华必用癫狂、眼瞎、心惊攻击你。
Jehovah will strike you with madness, blindness, and bewilderment of heart;
211
28:29 你必在午间摸索，好像瞎子在暗中摸索一样；你所行的必不顺利，只会时常遭遇欺压、抢夺，无人搭救。
And you will be groping at noonday just as the blind man gropes in darkness; and you will not succeed in your ventures, but will only be oppressed and
plundered always; and no one will save you.
28:30 你聘定了妻子，别人必与她同寝；你建造房屋，却不得住在其内；你栽种葡萄园，也不得享用。
You will get engaged to a woman, but another man will ravish her; you will build a house, but you will not dwell in it; you will plant a vineyard, but you will not
partake of it.
28:31 你的牛在你眼前宰了，你必不得吃它的肉；你的驴从你面前被抢夺，不得归还给你；你的羊归了仇敌，无人为你搭救。
Your ox will be slaughtered in your sight, but you will not eat of it; your donkey will be torn away from before you, but it will not be returned to you; your sheep will
be given to your enemies, but no one will rescue them for you.
28:32 你的儿女必被交给别国的民；你虽亲眼看着，终日切望，甚至失明，你的手却无力拯救。
Your sons and daughters will be given to another people while your eyes look on and fail from longing after them all the day, but you will be powerless.
28:33 你地里的出产和你劳碌得来的，必被你所不认识的国民吃尽；你只会时常被欺负，受压制；
A people whom you have not known will eat the fruit of your ground and all your hard-earned produce, and you will be only oppressed and crushed always.
28:34 你因眼中所看见的，必致疯狂。
And you will go mad because of the sight before your eyes which you will see.
28:35 耶和华必击打你，使你膝上腿上，从脚掌到头顶，长毒疮无法医治。
Jehovah will strike you on the knees and legs with terrible boils, of which you cannot be healed, from the sole of your foot to the top of your head.
28:36 耶和华必将你和你所立、治理你的王，领到你和你列祖素不认识的国去；在那里你必事奉别神，那不过是木头和石头。
Jehovah will bring you and your king, whom you will have set over you, to a nation which you and your fathers have not known; and there you will serve other
gods, mere wood and stone.
28:37 你在耶和华赶你到的各民中，要成为惊恐、笑谈、讥诮的因由。
And you will become a source of horror, a proverb, and a byword among all the peoples to whom Jehovah will drive you.
28:38 你带去田间的种子虽多，收进来的却少，因为被蝗虫吃了。
You will put out much seed in the field, but you will harvest little; for the locust will consume it.
28:39 你栽种、修理葡萄园，却不得喝葡萄酒，不得收葡萄，因为被虫子吃了。
You will plant vineyards and dress them, but you will not drink the wine nor gather the grapes; for the worm will devour them.
28:40 你的全境有橄榄树，却得不着油抹身，因为树上的橄榄不熟自落了。
You will have olive trees in all your territory, but you will not anoint yourself with the oil; for your olives will drop off.
28:41 你生儿生女，他们却不属于你，因为必被掳去。
You will beget sons and daughters, but they will not remain with you; for they will go into captivity.
28:42 你所有的树木和你地里的出产，必被蝗虫所得。
The locust will take possession of all your trees and the fruit of your ground.
28:43 在你中间寄居的，必渐渐上升，比你高而又高；你必渐渐下降，低而又低。
The sojourner who is in your midst will rise above you higher and higher, but you will go down lower and lower.
28:44 他必借给你，你却不能借给他；他必作首，你必作尾。
He will lend to you, and you will not lend to him; he will be the head and you will be the tail.
28:45 这一切咒诅必临到你，追随你，赶上你，直到你灭亡；因为你不听从耶和华你神的话，不遵守祂所吩咐的诫命和律例。
And all these curses will come upon you and pursue you and overtake you until you are destroyed, because you did not listen to the voice of Jehovah your God,
to keep His commandments and His statutes, which He commanded you;
28:46 这些咒诅必在你和你后裔的身上成为异迹奇事，直到永远。
And they will be with you and with your seed as a sign and wonder forever.
28:47 因为你样样富足的时候，不欢心乐意的事奉耶和华你的神，
Because you did not serve Jehovah your God with rejoicing and gladness of heart on account of the abundance of all things,
28:48 所以你必在饥饿、干渴、赤身、样样缺乏之中，事奉耶和华所打发来攻击你的仇敌；祂必把铁轭加在你的颈项上，直到将你毁灭。
You will serve your enemies, whom Jehovah will send out against you, in hunger, in thirst, in nakedness, and in lack of all things; and He will put an iron yoke on
your neck until He has destroyed you.
28:49 耶和华要从远方，从地极把一国的民带来，如鹰扑下攻击你。这民的言语，你不懂得。
Jehovah will bring against you a nation from far away, from the end of the earth, like the eagle that swoops down, a nation whose tongue you will not
understand,
28:50 这民的面貌凶恶，不顾老年人的情面，也不恩待少年人。
A nation of fierce countenance, who will not regard an old man's person nor show favor to the young man.
28:51 他们必吃你牲畜所下的和你地所产的，直到你被毁灭；你的五谷、新酒和新油，以及牛犊、羊羔，都不给你留下，直到使你灭亡。
And they will eat the fruit of your animals and the fruit of your ground until you are destroyed; they will not leave for you grain, new wine, or fresh oil, the offspring
of your cattle or the young of your flock, until they cause you to perish.
28:52 他们必将你困在你各城里，直到在你遍地，你所倚靠、高大坚固的城墙都被攻塌；他们必将你困在耶和华你神所赐你遍地的各城里。
And they will besiege you in all your towns until your high and fortified walls, in which you trusted, come down throughout all your land; and they will besiege you
in all your towns throughout all your land, which Jehovah your God has given you.
28:53 你的仇敌困迫你，你在围困窘迫之中，必吃你本身所生的，就是耶和华你神所赐给你的儿女之肉。
And you will eat the fruit of your womb, the flesh of your sons and daughters whom Jehovah your God has given you, in the siege and in the distress with which
your enemies will distress you.
28:54 你们中间柔弱娇嫩的男人，必恶眼看他弟兄和他怀中的妻，并他余剩的儿女；
The man who is delicately bred and luxurious among you, he will begrudge his brother, the wife of his bosom, and the remnant of his children whom he has left,
28:55 在你因仇敌的困迫而受围困窘迫的各城中，他要吃儿女的肉，不肯分一点给他的亲人，因为他一无所剩。
Not giving to one of them any of the flesh of his children whom he will eat; because nothing is left with him in the siege and in the distress with which your
enemies will distress you in all your towns.
28:56 你们中间柔弱娇嫩的妇人，是因娇嫩柔弱不肯把脚踏地的，必恶眼看她怀中的丈夫和她的儿女；
212
The delicately bred and luxurious woman among you, who does not venture to set the sole of her foot upon the ground because of her luxuriousness and
delicacy, she will begrudge the husband of her bosom and her son and daughter
28:57 从她两腿中间出来的婴孩与她所要生的儿女，她因缺乏一切，在你因仇敌的困迫而受围困窘迫的城中，将他们暗暗的吃了。
The child who comes forth from her and her children whom she will bear; for she will eat them secretly for lack of all things in the siege and distress with which
your enemy will distress you in your towns.
28:58 这书上所写律法的一切话，是叫你敬畏耶和华你神这荣耀可畏的名，你若不谨守遵行，
If you are not certain to do all the words of this law written in this book, that you may fear this glorious and awesome name-Jehovah your God -
28:59 耶和华就必将奇灾，就是大而长久的灾，恶而长久的病，加在你和你后裔的身上，
Jehovah will make your plagues and the plagues of your seed extraordinary, great and persistent plagues, and malignant and persistent sicknesses.
28:60 也必使你所惧怕，埃及的病再临到你，贴在你身上；
And He will put upon you again all the illnesses of Egypt, which you were afraid of, and they will cling to you.
28:61 又必将没有写在这律法书上的各样疾病、灾殃降在你身上，直到你被毁灭。
Also, every sickness and every plague which is not written in the book of this law, Jehovah will raise up upon you until you are destroyed.
28:62 你们先前虽然像天上的星那样多，却因不听从耶和华你神的话，所剩余的人数就稀少了。
And you will be left few in number, whereas you were as the stars of heaven in multitude; for you did not listen to the voice of Jehovah your God.
28:63 耶和华先前怎样喜悦叫你们得福，使你们增多，将来也要照样喜悦叫你们灭亡，将你们毁灭；并且你们必从所要进去得的地上被拔除。
And as Jehovah exulted over you to do you good and to multiply you, so will Jehovah exult over you to make you perish and to destroy you; and you will be torn
off the land which you are entering to possess.
28:64 耶和华必使你们分散在万民中，从地这边到地那边；你必在那里事奉你和你列祖素不认识的别神，那不过是木头和石头。
And Jehovah will scatter you among all the peoples, from one end of the earth to the other; and there you will serve other gods whom you and your fathers have
not known, mere wood and stone.
28:65 在那些国中，你必不得安宁，也不得落脚之地；耶和华却使你在那里心中发颤，眼目失明，精神消耗。
And among those nations you will have no rest, nor will there be a resting place for the sole of your foot; but Jehovah will give you there a quivering heart and
eyes failing with longing and a languishing soul.
28:66 你的性命必悬而不定；你昼夜恐惧，自料性命难保。
And your life will be hung in suspense before you, and you will dread night and day; and you will have no assurance of your life.
28:67 你因心里所恐惧的，眼中所看见的，早晨必说，巴不得到晚上才好；晚上必说，巴不得到早晨才好。
In the morning you will say, Oh, that it were evening! and in the evening you will say, Oh, that it were morning! because of your heart's dread with which you will
dread and because of the sight before your eyes which you will see.
28:68 耶和华必使你坐船回埃及去，走我曾告诉你不得再见的路；在那里你必卖己身给仇敌作奴婢，却无人买。
And Jehovah will bring you back to Egypt in ships, by the way concerning which I said to you, You shall never again see it. And there you will offer yourselves for
sale to your enemies, as male slaves and as female slaves, but no one will buy you.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 29 章
29:1 这些是耶和华在摩押地吩咐摩西与以色列人立约的话，是在祂和他们于何烈山所立的约之外。
These are the words of the covenant which Jehovah commanded Moses to make with the children of Israel in the land of Moab, besides the covenant that He
made with them at Horeb.
29:2 摩西召了以色列众人来，对他们说，耶和华在埃及地，在你们眼前向法老和他众臣仆，并他全地所行的一切事，你们都看见了，
And Moses called to all Israel and said to them, You have seen all that Jehovah did before your eyes in the land of Egypt to Pharaoh, to all his servants, and to all
his land,
29:3 就是你亲眼看见的大试验，那些大神迹和奇事。
The great trials which your eyes have seen, those great signs and wonders.
29:4 但直到今日，耶和华还没有使你们心能明白，眼能看见，耳能听见。
But Jehovah has not given you a heart to understand and eyes to see and ears to hear until this day.
29:5 我领你们在旷野四十年，你们身上的衣服没有穿破，脚上的鞋也没有穿坏；
And I have led you forty years in the wilderness; your clothing did not wear out from upon you, nor did your sandal wear out from upon your foot;
29:6 你们没有吃饼，也没有喝淡酒浓酒；这要使你们知道，我是耶和华你们的神。
You have not eaten bread, nor have you drunk wine or strong drink; that you might know that I am Jehovah your God.
29:7 你们来到这地方，希实本王西宏和巴珊王噩都出来与我们交战，我们就击杀了他们，
And when you came to this place, Sihon the king of Heshbon and Og the king of Bashan came out to meet us in battle, and we slew them;
29:8 取了他们的地给流便人、迦得人、和玛拿西半支派的人为业。
And we took their land and gave it as an inheritance to the Reubenites, to the Gadites, and to the half-tribe of the Manassites.
29:9 所以你们要谨守遵行这约的话，好叫你们在一切所行的事上亨通。
Therefore keep the words of this covenant and do them in order that you may prosper in all that you do.
29:10 今日你们众人都站在耶和华你们的神面前，你们支派的首领，你们的长老和官长，以色列所有的男丁，
You are standing today, all of you, before Jehovah your God, your leaders of your tribes, your elders, and your officers, every man of Israel,
29:11 你们的小孩、妻子、和你们营中寄居的，从为你们劈柴的人到为你们打水的人，都站在这里，
Your little ones, your wives, and the sojourner with you, who is in the midst of your camp, from the man who chops your wood to the man who draws your water,
29:12 为要进入耶和华你神今日与你所立的约，向你所起的誓；
In order to enter into a covenant with Jehovah your God and into His oath, which Jehovah your God is making with you today,
29:13 这样，祂今日要照祂向你所说的话，并向你列祖亚伯拉罕、以撒、雅各所起的誓，立你作祂的子民，祂作你的神。
So that He may establish you today as His people and that He may be your God, even as He has spoken to you and even as He swore to your fathers, to
Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
29:14 然而我不是单与你们立这约，起这誓；
However not with you alone do I make this covenant and this oath;
213
29:15 凡今日在这里与我们一同站在耶和华我们神面前的，并今日没有与我们一同在这里的人，我都与他们立这约，起这誓。
But I make it with him who is here today standing with us before Jehovah our God and with him who is not here with us today.
29:16 我们曾住过埃及地，也从列国中经过；这是你们知道的。
For you know that we dwelt in the land of Egypt and that we passed through the midst of the nations whom you passed through,
29:17 你们也看见他们中间的可憎之物，并他们的偶像，那不过是木、石、金、银。
And you saw their detestable images and their idols, mere wood and stone, silver and gold, which were with them.
29:18 惟恐你们中间，或男或女，或家族或支派，今日心里偏离耶和华我们的神，去事奉那些国的神；又怕你们中间有恶根生出毒菜和茵蔯来，
Beware that there is not among you any man or woman or family or tribe whose heart turns away, even today, from Jehovah our God, to go and serve the gods
of those nations; that there is not among you a root bearing poisonous fruit and wormwood;
29:19 他听见这咒诅的话，心里仍是自夸说，我虽然行事心里顽梗，使滋润的和干旱的一并毁坏，却还是平安。
And that when he hears the words of this oath, he blesses himself in his heart, saying, I will have peace, though I walk in the stubbornness of my heart; to the
ruin of the moist with the dry.
29:20 耶和华必不饶恕他；耶和华的怒气与忌恨必向那人发作，如烟冒出，这书上所写的一切咒诅必降在他身上；耶和华又要从天下涂抹他的名，
Jehovah will not be willing to pardon him; but rather the anger of Jehovah and His jealousy will fume against that man, and all the oath that is written in this book
will settle on him, and Jehovah will blot out his name from under heaven.
29:21 也必照着写在这律法书上，约中的一切咒诅，将他从以色列众支派中分别出来，使他受祸。
And Jehovah will separate him unto evil out of all the tribes of Israel according to all the oaths of the covenant written in this book of the law.
29:22 你们的后代，就是你们以后兴起来的子孙，和远方来的外人，看见这地的灾殃，并耶和华所降与这地的疾病；
And the following generation, your children who will rise up after you and the foreigner who will come from a distant land, will say, when they see the plagues of
that land and its diseases with which Jehovah has made it sick;
29:23 又看见遍地有硫磺，有盐卤，有火迹；没有播种，没有出产，连草都不生长，好像耶和华在怒气和烈怒中所倾覆的所多玛、蛾摩拉、押玛、洗扁一
样；
And that all its land is sulphur and salt, a burning waste; that it is not sown, nor does it sprout, nor does any vegetation come up in it; that it is like the overthrow
of Sodom and Gomorrah, Admah and Zeboiim, which Jehovah overthrew in His anger and burning wrath -
29:24 这些看见的人，连万国的人，都必问说，耶和华为何向此地这样行呢？为何这样大发怒气呢？
Indeed all the nations will say, Why has Jehovah done this to this land? Why the burning of this great anger?
29:25 人必回答说，是因这地的人离弃了耶和华他们列祖的神，领他们出埃及地的时候与他们所立的约，
And they will say, It is because they forsook the covenant of Jehovah, the God of their fathers, which He made with them when He brought them out from the
land of Egypt;
29:26 去事奉跪拜素不认识的别神，是耶和华所未曾给他们安排的。
And they went and served other gods and bowed down to them, gods whom they had not known and He had not allotted to them.
29:27 所以耶和华的怒气向这地发作，将这书上所写的一切咒诅都降在这地上。
And the anger of Jehovah burned against this land, bringing upon it all the curses written in this book;
29:28 耶和华在怒气、烈怒、大恼怒中，将他们从自己的地拔出来，扔到别地去，像今日一样。
And Jehovah plucked them off their land in anger and in burning wrath and in great indignation, and sent them to another land, as they are this day.
29:29 隐秘的事是属耶和华我们神的；惟有显明的事是永远属我们和我们子孙的，好叫我们遵行这律法上的一切话。
The things that are hidden belong to Jehovah our God; but the things that are revealed, to us and our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 30 章
30:1 我所陈明在你面前的这一切祝福与咒诅，将来临到你身上，你在耶和华你神赶你到的万国中，必心里回想这些话；
And when all these things come upon you, the blessing and the curse, which I have set before you; and you bring them to heart while among the nations to
whom Jehovah your God will drive you;
30:2 你和你的子孙若全心全魂归向耶和华你的神，照我今日一切所吩咐的，听从祂的话；
And you and your children return to Jehovah your God and listen to His voice, according to all that I am commanding you today, with all your heart and with all
your soul;
30:3 那时，耶和华你的神必使你这被掳的人归回，也必怜恤你；耶和华你的神要回转过来，从分散你到的万民中，将你招聚回来。
Then Jehovah your God will turn your captivity and be compassionate to you, and He will turn and gather you from all the peoples among whom Jehovah your
God has scattered you.
30:4 你被赶散的人，就是在天涯，耶和华你的神也必从那里招聚你，把你带回来。
If any of you have been driven out to the ends of heaven, from there will Jehovah your God gather you and from there will He take you.
30:5 耶和华你的神必领你进入你列祖所得的地，使你可以得着；又必善待你，使你的人数比你列祖众多。
And Jehovah your God will bring you into the land which your fathers possessed, and you will possess it; and He will do good for you and will multiply you more
than He did your fathers.
30:6 耶和华你神必给你的心和你后裔的心行割礼，好叫你全心全魂爱耶和华你的神，使你可以存活。
And Jehovah your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your seed, so that you will love Jehovah your God with all your heart and with all your soul, that
you may live.
30:7 耶和华你的神，必将这一切咒诅加在你仇敌和恨恶你、逼迫你的人身上。
And Jehovah your God will put all these oaths upon your enemies and upon them who hate you and who have persecuted you.
30:8 你必归回，听从耶和华的话，遵行祂的一切诫命，就是我今日所吩咐你的。
And you will turn and listen to the voice of Jehovah, and you will do all His commandments, which I am commanding you today.
30:9 耶和华你的神必使你手所办的一切事，并你身所生的，牲畜所下的，地所产的，都丰富有余；因为耶和华必再喜悦你，叫你得福，像从前喜悦你列祖
一样。
And Jehovah your God will give you an excess of prosperity in all your undertakings, in the fruit of your womb and in the fruit of your animals and in the fruit of
your ground, for Jehovah will again exult over you for good as He exulted over your fathers;
30:10 只要你听从耶和华你神的话，谨守这律法书上所写的诫命和律例，又全心全魂归向耶和华你的神。
214
If you listen to the voice of Jehovah your God, to keep His commandments and His statutes written in this book of the law; if you turn back to Jehovah your God
with all your heart and with all your soul.
30:11 我今日所吩咐你的这诫命，对你不是难行的，离你也不远；
For this commandment which I am commanding you today, it is not too difficult for you, nor is it distant.
30:12 不是在天上，使你说，谁要替我们升到天上取下来给我们，使我们听见可以遵行呢？
It is not in heaven that you should say, Who will ascend to heaven for us and bring it to us to make us hear it and do it?
30:13 也不是在海外，使你说，谁要替我们过海，取了来给我们，使我们听见可以遵行呢？
Nor is it across the sea that you should say, Who will go across the sea for us and bring it to us to make us hear it and do it?
30:14 这话却离你甚近，就在你口里，也在你心里，使你可以遵行。
But the word is very near to you, even in your mouth and in your heart, that you may do it.
30:15 看哪，我今日将生命与福乐，死亡与祸患，陈明在你面前。
See, I have put before you today life and good, and death and evil.
30:16 你若遵从耶和华你神的诫命，就是我今日所吩咐你的，爱耶和华你的神，行祂的道路，谨守祂的诫命、律例和典章，使你可以存活，人数增多，耶
和华你神就必在你所要进去得为业的地上，赐福与你。
If you obey the commandments of Jehovah your God, which I am commanding you today, to love Jehovah your God and walk in His ways and keep His
commandments and His statutes and His judgments, then you will live and multiply, and Jehovah your God will bless you in the land which you are entering to
possess.
30:17 倘若你心里偏离，不肯听从，反被勾引去跪拜事奉别神，
But if your heart turns and you do not listen, but rather you are drawn away in worship to other gods and serve them,
30:18 我今日明明告诉你们，你们必要灭亡；在你过约但河、进去得为业的地上，你们的日子必不长久。
I declare to you today that you shall surely perish; your days will not be extended upon the land into which you are crossing over the Jordan to go and possess.
30:19 我今日呼唤天地向你们作证；我将生命与死亡，祝福与咒诅，陈明在你面前，所以你要拣选生命，使你和你的后裔都得存活；
I call heaven and earth to witness against you today: I have set before you life and death, blessing and curse; therefore choose life that you and your seed may
live,
30:20 且爱耶和华你的神，听从祂的话，紧联于祂，因为祂是你的生命，你的日子长久也在乎祂。这样，你就可以在耶和华向你列祖亚伯拉罕、以撒、雅
各起誓要赐给他们的地上居住。
In loving Jehovah your God by listening to His voice and holding fast to Him; for He is your life and the length of your days, that you may dwell upon the land
which Jehovah swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give them.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 31 章
31:1 摩西向以色列众人讲完这些话，
When Moses finished speaking these words to all Israel,
31:2 就对他们说，我今日一百二十岁了，不能照常出入；耶和华也曾对我说，你必不得过这约但河。
He said to them, I am a hundred and twenty years old today; I can no longer go out and come in, and Jehovah has said to me, You shall not cross over this
Jordan.
31:3 耶和华你们的神必亲自在你们前面过去，将这些国民从你们面前灭绝，你们就将他们赶出。约书亚必亲自在你们前面过去，正如耶和华所说的。
It is Jehovah your God who is crossing over before you; it is He who will destroy these nations from before you, and you will dispossess them. Joshua is the one
who is crossing over before you, as Jehovah has spoken.
31:4 耶和华必待他们，如同从前待祂所灭绝亚摩利人的王西宏与噩，以及他们的地一样。
And Jehovah will do to them even as He did to Sihon and Og, the kings of the Amorites, and to their land when He destroyed them.
31:5 耶和华必将他们交给你们；你们要照我所吩咐的一切命令待他们。
And Jehovah will deliver them up before you, and you will do to them according to the whole commandment, which I have commanded you.
31:6 你们当刚强壮胆，不要惧怕，也不要因他们惊恐，因为耶和华你的神必亲自和你同去；祂必不撇下你，也不丢弃你。
Be strong and take courage; do not fear, neither be terrified of them, for it is Jehovah your God who goes with you; He will not fail you nor forsake you.
31:7 摩西召了约书亚来，在以色列众人眼前对他说，你当刚强壮胆，因为你要和这百姓一同进入耶和华向他们列祖起誓要赐给他们的地；你也要使他们承
受那地为业。
And Moses called Joshua and said to him in the sight of all Israel, Be strong and take courage, for you will go with this people into the land which Jehovah swore
to their fathers to give them; and you will cause them to inherit it.
31:8 耶和华必亲自在你前面行；祂必与你同在，必不撇下你，也不丢弃你；不要惧怕，也不要惊惶。
But it is Jehovah who is going before you. He will be with you; He will not fail you nor forsake you. Do not fear, neither be dismayed.
31:9 摩西将这律法写下来，交给抬耶和华约柜的祭司利未子孙，和以色列的众长老。
And Moses wrote this law and gave it to the priests, the sons of Levi, who bear the Ark of the Covenant of Jehovah, and to all the elders of Israel.
31:10 摩西吩咐他们说，每逢七年的末了，就在豁免年的定期，住棚节的时候，
And Moses commanded them, saying, At the end of every seven years, at the appointed time of the year of release, at the Feast of Tabernacles,
31:11 以色列众人来到耶和华你神所要选择的地方朝见祂；那时，你要在以色列众人面前，将这律法念给他们听。
When all Israel comes to appear before Jehovah your God in the place which He will choose, you shall read this law before all Israel in their hearing.
31:12 你要招聚百姓，男、女、孩子，并城里寄居的，使他们听，使他们学习敬畏耶和华你们的神，谨守遵行这律法的一切话，
Gather the people, the men, the women, and the little ones, and the sojourner with you, who is within your gates, that they may hear and that they may learn to
fear Jehovah your God and be certain to do all the words of this law,
31:13 也使他们未曾晓得这律法的儿女，在你们过约但河要得为业之地上，活着的日子，得以听见，并学习敬畏耶和华你们的神。
And that their children, who have not known these things, may hear and learn to fear Jehovah your God all the days that you live upon the land into which you
are crossing over the Jordan to possess.
31:14 耶和华对摩西说，你的死期临近了；要召约书亚来，你们二人站在会幕里，我好嘱咐他。于是摩西和约书亚同去，站在会幕里。
And Jehovah said to Moses, Now your days draw near for you to die. Call Joshua and present yourselves in the Tent of Meeting that I may charge him. So Moses
went with Joshua, and they presented themselves in the Tent of Meeting.
215
31:15 耶和华在会幕里云柱中显现，云柱停在会幕门口以上。
And Jehovah appeared in the tent in a pillar of cloud; and the pillar of cloud stood over the entrance of the tent.
31:16 耶和华又对摩西说，你快要和你列祖同睡；这百姓要起来，在他们所要进去的地上，在那地的人中，随从外邦神行邪淫，离弃我，背弃我与他们所
立的约。
And Jehovah said to Moses, You are now about to lie down with your fathers; and this people will rise up and go as harlots after the strange gods of the land,
into the midst of which they are entering; and they will forsake Me and break My covenant which I made with them.
31:17 当那日子，我的怒气必向他们发作，我也必离弃他们，掩面不顾他们，以致他们被吞灭，并有许多的祸患灾难临到他们；那日他们必说，这些祸患
临到我们，岂不是因我们的神不在我们中间么？
And My anger will burn against them in that day, and I will forsake them and hide My face from them; and they will be devoured, and many evils and troubles
will befall them, so that they will say in that day, Is it not because our God is not in our midst that these evils have befallen us?
31:18 当那日子，因他们偏向别神所行的一切恶，我必定掩面不顾他们。
And I will surely hide My face in that day because of all the evil which they have done, for they turned to other gods.
31:19 现在你们要写下这首歌，教导以色列人，放在他们口中，使这歌为我见证他们的不是；
And now write for yourselves this song and teach it to the children of Israel; put it in their mouth that I may have this song as a witness against the children of
Israel.
31:20 因为我将他们领进我向他们列祖起誓应许那流奶与蜜之地，他们在那里吃得饱足，长得肥胖，就偏向别神，事奉他们，藐视我，背弃我的约。
For I will bring them into the land which I swore to their fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey, and they will eat and become satisfied and grow fat, and they
will turn to other gods and serve them and despise Me and break My covenant.
31:21 那时有许多祸患灾难临到他们，这歌必在他们面前作见证，因为这歌在他们后裔的口中必念诵不忘；我未领他们到我所起誓应许之地以先，他们今
日所怀的意念，我都知道了。
And when many evils and troubles befall them, this song will respond as a witness before them, because it will not be forgotten in the mouth of their seed; for I
know their intention, which they are making even today before I bring them into the land which I have sworn to them.
31:22 当日摩西就写了这首歌，教导以色列人。
So Moses wrote this song on that day and taught it to the children of Israel.
31:23 耶和华嘱咐嫩的儿子约书亚说，你当刚强壮胆，因为你必领以色列人进我所起誓应许他们的地；我必与你同在。
And He charged Joshua the son of Nun and said, Be strong and take courage, for you will bring the children of Israel into the land which I have sworn to them;
and I will be with you.
31:24 摩西将这律法的话写在书上，及至写完了，
And when Moses finished writing the words of this law in a book until they were completed,
31:25 就嘱咐抬耶和华约柜的利未人说，
Moses charged the Levites who bear the Ark of the Covenant of Jehovah, saying,
31:26 将这律法书放在耶和华你们神的约柜旁，可以在那里见证你们的不是；
Take this book of the law and place it at the side of the Ark of the Covenant of Jehovah your God, that it may be there as a witness against you.
31:27 因为我知道你们是悖逆的，是硬着颈项的。看哪，我今日还活着与你们同在，你们尚且悖逆耶和华，何况在我死后！
For I know your rebelliousness and your stiff neck: See, while I am yet here alive with you today, you have been rebelling against Jehovah; so how much more
after my death!
31:28 你们要将你们支派的众长老和官长都招聚到我这里来，我好将这些话说给他们听，并呼唤天地向他们作证；
Gather to me all the elders of your tribes and your officers, that I may speak in their hearing these words and that I may call heaven and earth to witness against
them;
31:29 因为我知道我死后，你们必全然败坏，偏离我所吩咐你们的道路；日后必有祸患临到你们，因为你们必行耶和华眼中看为恶的事，以手所作的惹祂
发怒。
For I know that after my death you will utterly spoil yourselves and turn away from the way that I have commanded you; and evil will come upon you in the last
days, for you will do what is evil in the sight of Jehovah so as to provoke Him to anger by your undertakings.
31:30 摩西将这首歌的话，说给以色列全会众听，直到说完了。
And Moses spoke in the hearing of all the congregation of Israel the words of this song until they were completed.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 32 章
32:1 诸天哪，侧耳听，我要说话；愿地也听我口中的言语。
Give ear, O heaven, and let me speak; And let the earth hear the words of my mouth.
32:2 愿我的教训滴沥如雨；愿我的言语滴落如露，如同细雨落在嫩草上，如同甘霖降在菜蔬中。
Let my teaching drop like the rain; Let my speech distill like the dew, Like raindrops upon tender grass, And like abundant showers upon herbage.
32:3 我要宣告耶和华的名；你们要将尊大归与我们的神！
For the name of Jehovah will I declare. Ascribe greatness to our God!
32:4 祂是磐石，祂的作为完全，祂所行的全都公正，是信实无妄的神，又公义又正直。
The Rock-perfect is His work, For all His ways are justice: A God of faithfulness and without injustice; Righteous and upright is He.
32:5 这乖僻弯曲的世代向祂行事败坏，有这弊病就不是祂的儿女。
Corruptly have they dealt with Him-their blemish is not His sons-A twisted and crooked generation are they.
32:6 愚昧不智慧的民哪，你们这样报答耶和华么？祂岂不是你的父，将你买来的么？祂岂不是造你，建立你的么？
Do you repay Jehovah with this, Foolish and unwise people? Is He not your Father who bought you? Was it not He who made you and established you?
32:7 你当追念上古之日，思想历代之年；问你的父亲，他必指示你；问你的长者，他们必告诉你。
Remember the days of long ago; Consider the years of generation upon generation; Ask your father, and he will inform you; Your elders, and they will tell you.
32:8 至高者将地业赐给列邦，将世人分开，就照以色列子孙的数目，立定万民的疆界。
When the Most High gave the nations their inheritance, When He divided the sons of man, He set the borders of the peoples According to the number of Israel's
children.
32:9 耶和华的分本是祂的百姓；雅各是祂当得的产业。
216
For Jehovah's portion is His people; Jacob is the allotment of His inheritance.
32:10 耶和华在旷野之地，在野兽吼叫的荒野遇见他，就环绕他，专顾他，保护他如同保护眼中的瞳人。
He found him in a land of wilderness, And in a howling desert waste; He encircled him, cared for him with all attention; He guarded him like the pupil of His eye.
32:11 又如鹰搅动巢窝，在雏鹰以上盘旋，展翅接取雏鹰，背在两翼之上；
As the eagle rouses his nest, Hovers over his young, Spreads his wings, takes them, And bears them up upon his pinions;
32:12 这样，耶和华独自引导他，并无外邦神与祂在一起。
So Jehovah alone led him, And there was no strange god with Him.
32:13 耶和华使他乘驾地的高处，得吃田间的出产；又使他从磐石中咂蜜，从坚石中吸油；
He made him ride on the high places of the earth, And he ate the produce of the field; And He made him suck honey out of a crag, And oil out of flint rock:
32:14 也吃牛的奶酪、羊的奶、羊羔的脂油、巴珊所出的公绵羊和山羊、与上好的麦子，也喝葡萄汁酿的酒。
Curd of cows and milk of sheep, With fat of lambs, And rams, the offspring of Bashan, and goats, With the choicest wheat; And the blood of the grape you drank
as fermenting wine.
32:15 但耶书仑渐渐肥胖，就踢跳－你肥胖了，粗壮了，饱满了－便离弃造他的神，轻看救他的磐石。
But Jeshurun grew fat and kicked-You have become fat, you have grown thick, you have gorged yourself-And forsook God, who made him, And treated the
Rock of his salvation disdainfully.
32:16 他们以别神触动神的妒忌，以可憎恶的事惹动祂的怒气。
They made Him jealous with strange gods; With abominations they provoked Him to anger.
32:17 他们献祭给鬼魔，给那不是神的，给素不认识的神，给那近来新兴的，是你们列祖所不畏惧的。
They sacrificed to demons, to those who were no god, To gods they did not know, To new ones who had recently come up, Before whom your fathers had not
shuddered.
32:18 你轻忽了生你的磐石，忘记了产你的神。
You have neglected the Rock who begot you And have forgotten the God who travailed with you.
32:19 耶和华看见祂的儿女惹祂发怒，就轻弃他们，
And Jehovah saw and held them in contempt, Because of anger provoked by His sons and daughters.
32:20 说，我要向他们掩面，看他们的结局如何。他们本是乖谬的一代，心里无忠信的儿女。
And He said, I will hide My face from them; I will see what their latter end will be. For they are a generation of perversions, Children in whom is no faithfulness.
32:21 他们以那不是神的，触动我的妒忌；以虚无之物，惹动我的怒气。我也要以那不是子民的，触动他们的妒忌；以愚昧的国民，惹动他们的怒气。
They have made Me jealous with a non-God; They have provoked Me to anger with their vanities. Hence I will make them jealous with a non-people; With a
foolish nation I will provoke them to anger.
32:22 因为在我怒中有火烧起，直烧到极深的阴间，把地和地的出产尽都吞灭，山的根基也烧着了。
For a fire is kindled in My anger And burns unto nethermost Sheol. And it devours the earth and its produce And sets ablaze the foundations of the mountains.
32:23 我要将祸患堆在他们身上，把我的箭向他们射尽。
I will heap evils on them; I will use up My arrows against them.
32:24 他们必因饥荒消瘦，被热症毒疫吞灭；我要打发野兽用牙齿咬他们，并土中爬行的，用毒液害他们。
They shall be sucked up by famine, And eaten up by fire bolt And bitter destruction; And I will send the teeth of beasts against them, With the venom of those that
crawl in the dust.
32:25 外有刀剑，内有惊恐，使少男、童女、吃奶的、白发的，尽都丧亡。
The sword shall bereave outside, And inside, terror; Taking both the young man and the virgin, The suckling with the gray-haired man.
32:26 我原想，我要将他们分散，我要使人间不再记念他们。
I would have said, I will scatter them, I will cause the memory of them to cease from among men;
32:27 但我怕仇敌惹我发怒，恐怕他们的敌人误断，说，是我们的手有能力，并非耶和华行了这一切。
Except I dreaded the vexation from the enemy; Lest their adversaries misjudge; Lest they say, Our hand is exalted, And it is not Jehovah who has wrought all this.
32:28 因为以色列人是毫无谋算的国民，心里没有聪明。
For they are a nation destitute of counsel, And there is no understanding in them.
32:29 惟愿他们有智慧，能明白这事，看清他们的结局。
If they had been wise, they would have comprehended this, They would have perceived their latter end.
32:30 若不是他们的磐石卖了他们，若不是耶和华交出他们，一人焉能追赶他们千人？二人焉能使万人逃跑呢？
How shall one chase a thousand, And two put ten thousand to flight, Were it not that their Rock sold them, And Jehovah delivered them up?
32:31 连我们的仇敌也断定，他们的磐石不如我们的磐石。
For their rock is not like our Rock; And of this our enemies are judges.
32:32 他们的葡萄树是出于所多玛的葡萄树，出于蛾摩拉的田野；他们的葡萄是毒葡萄，全挂都是苦的。
For their vine is from Sodom's vine, And from Gomorrah's fields; Their grapes are the grapes of poison; Clusters of bitterness have they.
32:33 他们的酒是大蛇的毒液，是虺蛇残害的毒素。
Their wine is the venom of serpents And the cruel poison of cobras.
32:34 这不都是积蓄在我这里，封闭在我仓库中么？
Is this not laid up in store with Me, Sealed up in My treasuries?
32:35 他们失脚的时候，伸冤报应在我；因他们遭灾的日子近了；那注定要临到他们的，必速速来到。
Vengeance is Mine and so is retribution, For the time when their foot slips; Because the day of their calamity has drawn near, And the things destined to happen
to them hasten.
32:36 耶和华见祂百姓能力消逝，无论困住的、自由的，都没有余剩，就必为他们伸冤，怜恤祂的仆人。
For Jehovah will execute judgment for His people, And He will have compassion on His servants, When He sees that their support is gone, And that neither
fettered nor free remain.
32:37 祂必说，他们的神，他们所投靠的磐石，
And He will say, Where are their gods, The rock they sought refuge in,
32:38 就是向来吃他们祭牲的脂油，喝他们奠祭之酒的，在那里呢？让那些神兴起帮助你们，让他们遮护你们罢。
Who ate the fat of their sacrifices, And drank the wine of their drink offering? Let them rise up and help you; Let them be a shelter over you.
217
32:39 你们如今要看见：我，惟有我是神；在我以外并没有神。我使人死，我使人活；我损伤，我也医治，并无人能从我手中救出来。
See now that I, I am He, And there is no god with Me. It is I who kill, and I make alive; I wound, and it is I who heal; And there is no one who can deliver from My
hand.
32:40 我向天举手说，我指着我的永远生存起誓：
For I lift up My hand to heaven And say, As I live forever:
32:41 我若磨我闪亮的刀，手掌审判之权，就必报复我的敌人，报应恨我的人。
If I sharpen My flashing sword, And My hand takes hold of judgment, I will repay My adversaries with vengeance, And those who hate Me will I recompense.
32:42 我要使我的箭饮血饮醉，就是被杀被掳之人的血；我的刀要吃肉，乃是仇敌中长发首领的肉。
I will make My arrows drunk with blood, And My sword will devour flesh-With the blood of the slain and of the captives, The flesh of the long-haired leaders of
the enemy.
32:43 你们外邦人当与主的百姓一同欢呼，因祂要伸祂仆人流血的冤，报复祂的敌人，为祂的地和祂的百姓遮罪。
Shout joyously, you nations, for His people, Because He will avenge the blood of His servants, And He will repay His adversaries with vengeance And will cover
the guilt of His land and of His people.
32:44 摩西和嫩的儿子何希阿前来,将这歌的一切话说给百姓听。
And Moses came and spoke all the words of this song in the hearing of the people, he and Hoshea the son of Nun.
32:45 摩西向以色列众人说完了这一切的话，
And Moses finished speaking all these words to all Israel.
32:46 又说，我今日向你们见证的一切话，你们要放在心上；要吩咐你们的子孙谨守遵行这律法上的一切话。
And he said to them, Set your heart on all these words which I am testifying to you today. You shall command them to your children that they may be certain to
do all the words of this law.
32:47 因为这不是空洞、与你们无关的事，乃是你们的生命；在你们过约但河要得为业的地上，你们必因这事日子得以长久。
For it is not a matter too vain for you, because it is your life; and by this matter you will extend your days upon the land into which you are crossing over the
Jordan to possess.
32:48 当日，耶和华对摩西说，
And Jehovah spoke to Moses that same day, saying,
32:49 你上这亚巴琳山中的尼波山去，在耶利哥对面的摩押地，观看我所要赐给以色列人为业的迦南地；
Go up to this mountain of the Abarim, Mount Nebo, which is in the land of Moab, which faces Jericho, and see the land of Canaan, which I am giving to the
children of Israel as a possession;
32:50 你必死在你所登的山上，归到你本民那里，像你哥哥亚伦死在何珥山上，归到他本民那里一样；
And die in the mountain to which you are going up, and be gathered to your people, just as Aaron your brother died in Mount Hor and was gathered to his
people;
32:51 因为你们在寻的旷野，加低斯的米利巴水，在以色列人中对我行事不忠信，没有尊我为圣。
Because you were unfaithful to Me among the children of Israel at the waters of Meribah-kadesh, in the wilderness of Zin; because you did not sanctify Me
among the children of Israel.
32:52 我所赐给以色列人的地，你可以远远的观看，却不得进去。
But from a distance you shall see the land, yet you shall not go there into the land which I am giving to the children of Israel.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 33 章
33:1 以下是神人摩西死前为以色列人所祝的福：
And this is the blessing with which Moses, the man of God, blessed the children of Israel before his death.
33:2 他说，耶和华从西乃而来，从西珥向他们如晨光显现，从巴兰山发出光辉，从千万圣者中来临，从祂右手为百姓传出烈火的律法。
And he said, Jehovah came from Sinai, And He dawned upon them from Seir; He shined forth from Mount Paran, And He approached from the myriads of holy
ones; From His right hand a fiery law went out to them.
33:3 祂疼爱百姓。众圣徒都在你手中；他们坐在你的脚前，领受你的言语。
Indeed, He loves the people. All His saints were in Your hand, And they sat down at Your feet; Everyone receives of Your words.
33:4 摩西将律法吩咐我们，作为雅各会众的产业。
Moses commanded us a law, A possession of the congregation of Jacob.
33:5 百姓的众首领，以色列的各支派，一同聚集的时候，耶和华在耶书仑中为王。
And He was King in Jeshurun, When the heads of the people gathered themselves, The tribes of Israel together.
33:6 愿流便存活，不至死亡；愿他人数不至稀少。
May Reuben live and not die, Nor his men be few.
33:7 论犹大，他这样祝福说，耶和华阿，求你听犹大的声音，领他归于本族；他曾用手为他们争斗，愿你帮助他攻击敌人。
And this is the blessing concerning Judah; and he said, Hear, O Jehovah, the voice of Judah, And bring him to his people. With his hands he contended for them;
And may You be a help against his adversaries.
33:8 论利未说，耶和华阿，愿你的土明和乌陵都在你的虔诚人那里；你在玛撒曾试验他，在米利巴水曾与他争论。
And concerning Levi he said, May Your Thummim and Urim be with Your faithful man, Whom You tested at Massah, With whom You contended at the waters of
Meribah -
33:9 他论自己的父母说，我没有看见；他不承认自己的弟兄，也不认识自己的儿女；这是因利未人谨守你的话，护卫你的约。
He who said of his father and mother, I do not regard him; And his brothers he did not acknowledge, And his children he did not recognize; For they have kept
Your speaking And have guarded Your covenant.
33:10 他们要将你的典章指教雅各，将你的律法指教以色列；他们要把香焚在你面前，把全牲的燔祭献在你的坛上。
They shall show Jacob Your judgments, And Israel Your law; They shall put incense before Your nostrils And whole burnt offerings upon Your altar.
33:11 耶和华阿，求你赐福给他的能力，悦纳他手中的工作；那些起来攻击他和恨恶他的人，愿你刺透他们的腰，使他们不得再起来。
Bless, O Jehovah, his might, And the work of his hands accept; Wound thoroughly the loins of those who rise up against him And of those who hate him, that they
may not rise up again.
218
33:12 论便雅悯说，耶和华所亲爱的，必在耶和华旁边安然居住；耶和华必终日遮蔽他，也住在他两肩之中。
Concerning Benjamin he said, The beloved of Jehovah shall dwell securely beside Him; Jehovah shall cover over him all the day, And He shall dwell between his
shoulders.
33:13 论约瑟说，愿他的地蒙耶和华赐福，得天上的宝物、甘露、以及地下所藏的泉源；
And concerning Joseph he said, May his land be blessed of Jehovah With the choicest things of heaven, with the dew And with the deep waters that couch
beneath;
33:14 得太阳所晒熟的美果，月亮所养成的宝物；
With the choicest of the crops of the sun, And with the choicest of the yield of the moons;
33:15 得上古之山的至宝，永世之岭的宝物；
With the top of the ancient mountains, And with the choicest things of the eternal hills;
33:16 得地和其中所充满的宝物，并住在荆棘中者的喜悦。愿这些福都临到约瑟的头上，临到那与弟兄迥别之人的顶上。
With the choicest things of the earth, and the fullness thereof, And the favor of Him who dwelt in the thornbush. May they come upon the head of Joseph, And
upon the top of the head of him who is separated among his brothers.
33:17 他像头生的公牛，有威严；他的角是野牛的角，用以抵触万民，直到地极。这角是以法莲的万万，玛拿西的千千。
Like his firstborn ox, he has majesty; And his horns are the horns of the wild ox; With them he shall drive peoples To the ends of the earth together. Those are the
ten thousands of Ephraim; And those the thousands of Manasseh.
33:18 论西布伦说，西布伦哪，你出外可以欢喜；以萨迦阿，你在帐棚里可以快乐！
And concerning Zebulun he said, Rejoice, Zebulun, for your going forth, And Issachar, for your tents!
33:19 他们要将万民召到山上，在那里献公义的祭；因为他们要吸取海里的丰富，并沙中所藏的珍宝。
They shall call peoples to the mountain; There they shall offer sacrifices of righteousness; For they shall suck the abundance of the seas And the hidden treasures
of the sand.
33:20 论迦得说，使迦得扩张的当受颂赞。迦得住如母狮；他撕裂膀臂，连头顶也撕裂了。
And concerning Gad he said, Blessed be He who enlarges Gad. He dwells as a lioness, And tears off the arm, yea, even the top of the head.
33:21 他为自己选择了头一段地，因在那里有设立律法者的分存留。他与百姓的首领同来；他施行耶和华的公义，并耶和华与以色列所立的典章。
And he provided the first part for himself, For there the portion of a lawgiver is reserved; And he came with the heads of the people; He executed the
righteousness of Jehovah And His judgments with Israel.
33:22 论但说，但为小狮子，从巴珊跳出来。
And concerning Dan he said, Dan is a lion's whelp That leaps forth from Bashan.
33:23 论拿弗他利说，拿弗他利阿，你饱受恩惠，满得耶和华的福，可以得海和南方为业。
And concerning Naphtali he said, O Naphtali, satisfied with favor, And full of the blessing of Jehovah: Possess the sea and the south.
33:24 论亚设说，愿亚设蒙福胜过众子，得他弟兄们的喜悦，愿他的脚蘸在油中。
And concerning Asher he said, Blessed be Asher above the sons. May he be the one favored of his brothers, And the one dipping his foot in oil.
33:25 你的门闩是铁的，是铜的；你的日子如何，你的力量也必如何。
Your doorbolts shall be iron and copper; And as your days are, so shall your strength be.
33:26 没有谁像耶书仑的神，祂驾行诸天，作你的帮助；横越穹苍，显祂的威荣。
There is no one like the God of Jeshurun, Who rides through the heavens as your help And in His majesty through the skies.
33:27 亘古的神是你的居所；祂永远的膀臂在你以下。祂在你前面撵出仇敌，说，毁灭罢！
The God of old is your habitation, And underneath are eternal arms. And He drove out the enemy before you And said, Destroy!
33:28 故此以色列安然居住；雅各的泉源独居五谷新酒之地，他的天也滴甘露。
So Israel dwelt securely, The fountain of Jacob in solitude, On a land of grain and new wine; And the heavens over him drop their dew.
33:29 以色列阿，你是有福的；谁像你这蒙耶和华拯救的百姓呢？祂是帮助你的盾牌，是使你得威荣的刀剑！你的仇敌必投降你；你必踏在他们的高处。
Happy are you, O Israel; who is like you? A people saved by Jehovah, The shield of your help And He who is the sword of your majesty! So your enemies shall
come cringing to you, And you shall tread upon their high places.
申命记 Deuteronomy 第 34 章
34:1 摩西从摩押平原登尼波山，上了那与耶利哥相对的毗斯迦山顶。耶和华把全地指给他看，就是基列直到但、
Then Moses went up from the plains of Moab to Mount Nebo, to the top of Pisgah, which faces Jericho. And Jehovah showed him all the land: Gilead as far as
Dan;
34:2 拿弗他利全地、以法莲和玛拿西的地、犹大全地直到西海、
And all of Naphtali; and the land of Ephraim and Manasseh; and all the land of Judah as far as the sea beyond it;
34:3 南地，以及那平原，就是棕树城耶利哥的山谷，直到琐珥。
And the Negev; and the Plain, that is, the valley of Jericho, the city of palm trees, as far as Zoar.
34:4 耶和华对他说，这就是我向亚伯拉罕、以撒、雅各起誓应许之地，说，我必将这地赐给你的后裔。现在我使你亲眼看见了，你却不得过到那里去。
And Jehovah said to him, This is the land which I swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, To your seed I will give it. I have let you see it with your own
eyes, but you will not go over there.
34:5 于是，耶和华的仆人摩西死在摩押地，正如耶和华所说的。
So Moses the servant of Jehovah died there in the land of Moab according to the word of Jehovah.
34:6 耶和华将他埋葬在摩押地，伯毗珥对面的谷中，只是到今日没有人知道他埋葬的地方。
And He buried him in the valley in the land of Moab opposite Beth-peor; but no man knows his burial site to this day.
34:7 摩西死的时候，年一百二十岁；眼目没有昏花，精神没有衰败。
And Moses was a hundred and twenty years old when he died; his eye was not dim, nor had his freshness left him.
34:8 以色列人在摩押平原为摩西哀哭了三十日，为摩西居丧哀哭的日子就满了。
And the children of Israel wept for Moses in the plains of Moab for thirty days; thus, the days of weeping and mourning for Moses were completed.
34:9 嫩的儿子约书亚，因为摩西曾按手在他头上，就被智慧的灵充满；以色列人便听从他，照着耶和华吩咐摩西的行了。
219
And Joshua the son of Nun was filled with the spirit of wisdom, for Moses had laid his hands upon him; and the children of Israel listened to him and did as
Jehovah had commanded Moses.
34:10 以后以色列中再没有兴起申言者像摩西的；他是耶和华面对面所认识的，
And there has not arisen a prophet since then in Israel like Moses, whom Jehovah knew face to face,
34:11 耶和华曾打发他在埃及地向法老和他的一切臣仆，并他的全地，行各样神迹和奇事，
For all the signs and the wonders which Jehovah sent him to do in the land of Egypt, to Pharaoh, to all his servants, and to all his land,
34:12 又在以色列众人眼前显大能的手，行一切大而可畏的事。
And for all the mighty power and for all the great terror which Moses did in the sight of all Israel.