49. 以弗所书 Ephesians
以弗所书 Ephesians 第 1 章
1:1 凭神旨意，作基督耶稣使徒的保罗，写信给在以弗所的圣徒，就是在基督耶稣里的忠信者：
Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, to the saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in Christ Jesus:
1:2 愿恩典与平安，从神我们的父，并主耶稣基督归与你们。
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1:3 我们主耶稣基督的神与父，是当受颂赞的，祂在基督里，曾用诸天界里各样属灵的福分，祝福了我们；
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenlies in Christ,
1:4 就如祂在创立世界以前，在基督里拣选了我们，使我们在爱里，在祂面前，成为圣别、没有瑕疵；
Even as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world to be holy and without blemish before Him in love,
1:5 按着祂意愿所喜悦的，预定了我们，借着耶稣基督得儿子的名分，归于祂自己，
Predestinating us unto sonship through Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the good pleasure of His will,
1:6 使祂恩典的荣耀得着称赞，这恩典是祂在那蒙爱者里面所恩赐我们的；
To the praise of the glory of His grace, with which He graced us in the Beloved;
1:7 我们在这蒙爱者里面，借着祂的血，照着神恩典的丰富，得蒙救赎，就是过犯得以赦免，
In whom we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of offenses, according to the riches of His grace,
1:8 这恩典是神用全般的智慧和明达，使其向我们洋溢的，
Which He caused to abound to us in all wisdom and prudence,
1:9 照着祂的喜悦，使我们知道祂意愿的奥秘；这喜悦是祂在自己里面预先定下的，
Making known to us the mystery of His will according to His good pleasure, which He purposed in Himself,
1:10 为着时期满足时的经纶，要将万有，无论是在诸天之上的，或是在地上的，都在基督里归一于一个元首之下；
Unto the economy of the fullness of the times, to head up all things in Christ, the things in the heavens and the things on the earth, in Him;
1:11 我们既在祂里面，照着那位按祂意愿所决议的，行作万事者的定旨，蒙了预定，也就在祂里面成了所选定的基业，
In whom also we were designated as an inheritance, having been predestinated according to the purpose of the One who works all things according to the
counsel of His will,
1:12 以致我们这首先在基督里有盼望的人，可使祂的荣耀得着称赞；
That we would be to the praise of His glory who have first hoped in Christ.
1:13 你们既听了真理的话，就是那叫你们得救的福音，也在祂里面信了，就在祂里面受了所应许的圣灵为印记；
In whom you also, having heard the word of the truth, the gospel of your salvation, in Him also believing, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of the promise,
1:14 这圣灵是我们得基业的凭质，为使神所买的产业得赎，使祂的荣耀得着称赞。
Who is the pledge of our inheritance unto the redemption of the acquired possession, to the praise of His glory.
1:15 因此，我既听见你们中间对主耶稣的信，并对众圣徒的爱，
Therefore I also, having heard of the faith in the Lord Jesus which is among you and your love to all the saints,
1:16 也就为你们不住的感谢，在我的祷告中常提到你们；
Do not cease giving thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers,
1:17 愿我们主耶稣基督的神，荣耀的父，赐给你们智慧和启示的灵，使你们充分的认识祂；
That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you a spirit of wisdom and revelation in the full knowledge of Him,
1:18 光照你们的心眼，使你们知道祂的呼召有何等盼望；祂在圣徒中之基业的荣耀，有何等丰富；
The eyes of your heart having been enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of His calling, and what are the riches of the glory of His inheritance in the
saints,
1:19 以及祂的能力向着我们这信的人，照祂力量之权能的运行，是何等超越的浩大，
And what is the surpassing greatness of His power toward us who believe, according to the operation of the might of His strength,
1:20 就是祂在基督身上所运行的，使祂从死人中复活，叫祂在诸天界里，坐在自己的右边，
Which He caused to operate in Christ in raising Him from the dead and seating Him at His right hand in the heavenlies,
1:21 远超过一切执政的、掌权的、有能的、主治的、以及一切受称之名，不但是今世的，连来世的也都在内，
Far above all rule and authority and power and lordship and every name that is named not only in this age but also in that which is to come;
1:22 将万有服在祂的脚下，并使祂向着召会作万有的头；
And He subjected all things under His feet and gave Him to be Head over all things to the church,
1:23 召会是祂的身体，是那在万有中充满万有者的丰满。
Which is His Body, the fullness of the One who fills all in all.
以弗所书 Ephesians 第 2 章
2:1 而你们原是死在过犯并罪之中，
And you, though dead in your offenses and sins,
2:2 那时，你们在其中行事为人，随着这世界的世代，顺着空中掌权者的首领，就是那现今在悖逆之子里面运行之灵的首领；
In which you once walked according to the age of this world, according to the ruler of the authority of the air, of the spirit which is now operating in the sons of
disobedience;
2:3 我们众人从前也都在他们中间，在我们肉体的私欲里，行事为人，行肉体和思念所意欲的，生来就是可怒的儿女，和其余的人一样；
Among whom we also all conducted ourselves once in the lusts of our flesh, doing the desires of the flesh and of the thoughts, and were by nature children of
wrath, even as the rest;
2:4 然而神富于怜悯，因祂爱我们的大爱，
But God, being rich in mercy, because of His great love with which He loved us,
2:5 竟然在我们因过犯死了的时候，便叫我们一同与基督活过来，（你们得救是靠着恩典，）
Even when we were dead in offenses, made us alive together with Christ (by grace you have been saved)
2:6 祂又叫我们在基督耶稣里一同复活，一同坐在诸天界里，
And raised us up together with Him and seated us together with Him in the heavenlies in Christ Jesus,
2:7 好在要来的诸世代中，显示祂在基督耶稣里，向我们所施恩慈中恩典超越的丰富。
That He might display in the ages to come the surpassing riches of His grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus.
2:8 你们得救是靠着恩典，借着信；这并不是出于你们，乃是神的恩赐；
For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this not of yourselves; it is the gift of God;
2:9 也不是出于行为，免得有人夸口。
Not of works that no one should boast.
2:10 我们原是神的杰作，在基督耶稣里，为着神早先预备好，要我们行在其中的善良事工创造的。
For we are His masterpiece, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand in order that we would walk in them.
2:11 所以你们应当记念，你们从前在肉身上是外邦人，是那些凭人手所行，在肉身上称为受割礼之人，所称为未受割礼的；
Therefore remember that once you, the Gentiles in the flesh, those who are called uncircumcision by that which is called circumcision in the flesh made by hands,
2:12 那时，你们在基督以外，和以色列国民隔绝，在所应许的诸约上是局外人，在世上没有指望，没有神。
That you were at that time apart from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers to the covenants of the promise, having no hope and
without God in the world.
2:13 但如今在基督耶稣里，你们这从前远离的人，靠着基督的血，已经得亲近了。
But now in Christ Jesus you who were once far off have become near in the blood of Christ.
2:14 因祂自己是我们的和平，将两下作成一个，拆毁了中间隔断的墙，就是仇恨，
For He Himself is our peace, He who has made both one and has broken down the middle wall of partition, the enmity,
2:15 在祂的肉体里，废掉了那规条中诫命的律法，好把两下在祂自己里面，创造成一个新人，成就了和平；
Abolishing in His flesh the law of the commandments in ordinances, that He might create the two in Himself into one new man, so making peace,
2:16 既用十字架除灭了仇恨，便藉这十字架，使两下在一个身体里与神和好了；
And might reconcile both in one Body to God through the cross, having slain the enmity by it.
2:17 又来传和平为福音，给你们这远离的人，也传和平为福音，给那相近的人，
And coming, He announced peace as the gospel to you who were far off, and peace to those who were near,
2:18 因为借着祂，我们两下在一位灵里，得以进到父面前。
For through Him we both have access in one Spirit unto the Father.
2:19 这样，你们不再是外人和寄居的，乃是圣徒同国之民，是神家里的亲人，
So then you are no longer strangers and sojourners, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God,
2:20 被建造在使徒和申言者的根基上，有基督耶稣自己作房角石；
Being built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone;
2:21 在祂里面，全房联结一起，长成在主里的圣殿；
In whom all the building, being fitted together, is growing into a holy temple in the Lord;
2:22 你们也在祂里面同被建造，成为神在灵里的居所。
In whom you also are being built together into a dwelling place of God in spirit.
以弗所书 Ephesians 第 3 章
3:1 因这缘故，我这为你们外邦人作基督耶稣囚犯的保罗，为你们祈求─
For this cause I Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus on behalf of you, the Gentiles --
3:2 谅必你们曾听见那为着你们所赐给我，神恩典的管家职分，
If indeed you have heard of the stewardship of the grace of God which was given to me for you,
3:3 就是照着启示使我知道这奥秘，正如我前面略略写过的，
That by revelation the mystery was made known to me, as I have written previously in brief,
3:4 你们念了，就能藉此明了我对基督的奥秘所有的领悟，
By which, in reading it, you can perceive my understanding in the mystery of Christ,
3:5 这奥秘在别的世代中，未曾给人们的子孙知道，像如今在灵里启示祂的圣使徒和申言者一样；
Which in other generations was not made known to the sons of men, as it has now been revealed to His holy apostles and prophets in spirit,
3:6 就是外邦人在基督耶稣里，借着福音得以同为后嗣，同为一个身体，并同为应许的分享者；
That in Christ Jesus the Gentiles are fellow heirs and fellow members of the Body and fellow partakers of the promise through the gospel,
3:7 我作了这福音的执事，是照着神恩典的恩赐，这恩赐是照着祂大能的运行所赐给我的。
Of which I became a minister according to the gift of the grace of God which was given to me according to the operation of His power.
3:8 这恩典赐给了我这比众圣徒中最小者还小的，叫我将基督那追测不尽的丰富，当作福音传给外邦人，
To me, less than the least of all saints, was this grace given to announce to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ as the gospel
3:9 并将那历世历代隐藏在创造万有之神里的奥秘有何等的经纶，向众人照明，
And to enlighten all that they may see what the economy of the mystery is, which throughout the ages has been hidden in God, who created all things,
3:10 为要借着召会，使诸天界里执政的、掌权的，现今得知神万般的智慧，
In order that now to the rulers and the authorities in the heavenlies the multifarious wisdom of God might be made known through the church,
3:11 这是照着祂在我们的主基督耶稣里，所立的永远定旨；
According to the eternal purpose which He made in Christ Jesus our Lord,
3:12 在祂里面，我们借着信祂，就笃信不疑，放心大胆的进到神面前。
In whom we have boldness and access in confidence through faith in Him.
3:13 所以我求你们，不要因我为你们所受的患难丧胆，这原是你们的荣耀。
Therefore I ask you not to faint at my afflictions for your sake, since they are your glory.
3:14 因这缘故，我向父屈膝，
For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father,
3:15 在诸天里以及在地上的各家族，都是从祂得名，
Of whom every family in the heavens and on earth is named,
3:16 愿祂照着祂荣耀的丰富，借着祂的灵，用大能使你们得以加强到里面的人里，
That He would grant you, according to the riches of His glory, to be strengthened with power through His Spirit into the inner man,
3:17 使基督借着信，安家在你们心里，叫你们在爱里生根立基，
That Christ may make His home in your hearts through faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love,
3:18 使你们满有力量，能和众圣徒一同领略何为那阔、长、高、深，
May be full of strength to apprehend with all the saints what the breadth and length and height and depth are
3:19 并认识基督那超越知识的爱，使你们被充满，成为神一切的丰满。
And to know the knowledge-surpassing love of Christ, that you may be filled unto all the fullness of God.
3:20 然而神能照着运行在我们里面的大能，极其充盈的成就一切，超过我们所求所想的；
But to Him who is able to do superabundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power which operates in us,
3:21 愿在召会中，并在基督耶稣里，荣耀归与祂，直到世世代代，永永远远。阿们。
To Him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus unto all the generations forever and ever. Amen.
以弗所书 Ephesians 第 4 章
4:1 所以我这在主里的囚犯劝你们，行事为人要与你们所蒙的呼召相配，
I beseech you therefore, I, the prisoner in the Lord, to walk worthily of the calling with which you were called,
4:2 凡事卑微、温柔、恒忍，在爱里彼此担就，
With all lowliness and meekness, with long-suffering, bearing one another in love,
4:3 以和平的联索，竭力保守那灵的一：
Being diligent to keep the oneness of the Spirit in the uniting bond of peace:
4:4 一个身体和一位灵，正如你们蒙召，也是在一个盼望中蒙召的；
One Body and one Spirit, even as also you were called in one hope of your calling;
4:5 一主，一信，一浸；
One Lord, one faith, one baptism;
4:6 一位众人的神与父，就是那超越众人，贯彻众人，也在众人之内的。
One God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all.
4:7 但恩典赐给我们各人，是照着基督恩赐的度量。
But to each one of us grace was given according to the measure of the gift of Christ.
4:8 所以经上说，“祂既升上高处，就掳掠了那些被掳的，将恩赐赐给人。”
Therefore the Scripture says, "Having ascended to the height, He led captive those taken captive and gave gifts to men.''
4:9 （若非祂也曾降到地的低下之处，“祂升上”是什么意思？
(Now this, "He ascended,'' what is it except that He also descended into the lower parts of the earth?
4:10 那降下的，也是那升上，远超诸天之上，为要充满万有的。）
He who descended, He is also the One who ascended far above all the heavens that He might fill all things.)
4:11 祂所赐的，有些是使徒，有些是申言者，有些是传福音者，有些是牧人和教师，
And He Himself gave some as apostles and some as prophets and some as evangelists and some as shepherds and teachers,
4:12 为要成全圣徒，目的是为着职事的工作，为着建造基督的身体，
For the perfecting of the saints unto the work of the ministry, unto the building up of the Body of Christ,
4:13 直到我们众人都达到了信仰上并对神儿子之完全认识上的一，达到了长成的人，达到了基督丰满之身材的度量，
Until we all arrive at the oneness of the faith and of the full knowledge of the Son of God, at a full-grown man, at the measure of the stature of the fullness of
Christ,
4:14 使我们不再作小孩子，为波浪漂来漂去，并为一切教训之风所摇荡，这教训是在于人的欺骗手法，在于将人引入错谬系统的诡诈作为；
That we may be no longer little children tossed by waves and carried about by every wind of teaching in the sleight of men, in craftiness with a view to a system
of error,
4:15 惟在爱里持守着真实，我们就得以在一切事上长到祂，就是元首基督里面；
But holding to truth in love, we may grow up into Him in all things, who is the Head, Christ,
4:16 本于祂，全身借着每一丰富供应的节，并借着每一部分依其度量而有的功用，得以联络在一起，并结合在一起，便叫身体渐渐长大，以致在爱里把自
己建造起来。
Out from whom all the Body, being joined together and being knit together through every joint of the rich supply and through the operation in the measure of
each one part, causes the growth of the Body unto the building up of itself in love.
4:17 所以我这样说，且在主里见证，你们行事为人，不要再像外邦人在他们心思的虚妄里行事为人，
This therefore I say and testify in the Lord, that you no longer walk as the Gentiles also walk in the vanity of their mind,
4:18 他们在悟性上既然昏暗，就因着那在他们里面的无知，因着他们心里的刚硬，与神的生命隔绝了；
Being darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance which is in them, because of the hardness of their heart;
4:19 他们感觉既然丧尽，就任凭自己放荡，以致贪行种种的污秽。
Who, being past feeling, have given themselves over to lasciviousness to work all uncleanness in greediness.
4:20 但你们并不是这样学了基督；
But you did not so learn Christ,
4:21 如果你们真是听过祂，并在祂里面，照着那在耶稣身上是实际者，受过教导，
If indeed you have heard Him and have been taught in Him as the reality is in Jesus,
4:22 在从前的生活样式上，脱去了旧人，这旧人是照着那迷惑的情欲败坏的；
That you put off, as regards your former manner of life, the old man, which is being corrupted according to the lusts of the deceit,
4:23 而在你们心思的灵里得以更新，
And that you be renewed in the spirit of your mind
4:24 并且穿上了新人，这新人是照着神，在那实际的义和圣中所创造的。
And put on the new man, which was created according to God in righteousness and holiness of the reality.
4:25 所以你们既已脱去谎言，各人就要与邻舍说实话，因为我们是互相为肢体。
Therefore having put off the lie, speak truth each one with his neighbor, for we are members one of another.
4:26 生气却不要犯罪，不可含怒到日落，
Be angry, yet do not sin; do not let the sun go down on your indignation,
4:27 也不可给魔鬼留地步。
Neither give place to the devil.
4:28 偷窃的不要再偷，倒要劳力，亲手作正经事，好有所分给需要的人。
He who steals should steal no more, but rather should labor, working with his own hands in that which is respectable, that he may have something to share with
him who has need.
4:29 败坏的话一句都不可出口，只要按需要说建造人的好话，好将恩典供给听见的人。
Let no corrupt word proceed out of your mouth, but only that which is good for building up, according to the need, that it may give grace to those who hear.
4:30 并且不要叫神的圣灵忧愁，你们原是在祂里面受了印记，直到得赎的日子。
And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, in whom you were sealed unto the day of redemption.
4:31 一切苦毒、恼恨、忿怒、喧嚷、毁谤，同一切的恶毒，都要从你们中间除掉。
Let all bitterness and anger and wrath and clamor and evil speaking be removed from you, with all malice.
4:32 你们要以恩慈相待，心存慈怜，彼此饶恕，正如神在基督里饶恕了你们一样。
And be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God in Christ also forgave you.
以弗所书 Ephesians 第 5 章
5:1 所以你们要效法神，好像蒙爱的儿女一样；
Be therefore imitators of God, as beloved children;
5:2 也要在爱里行事为人，正如基督爱我们，为我们舍了自己，作供物和祭物献与神，成为馨香之气。
And walk in love, even as Christ also loved us and gave Himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling savor.
5:3 至于淫乱、并一切污秽、或是贪婪，在你们中间连提都不可，如此才与圣徒相宜；
But fornication and all uncleanness or greediness, let it not even be named among you, as is fitting for saints,
5:4 还有淫辞、妄语、或是粗鄙的戏言，都不相宜，宁可说感谢的话。
And obscenity and foolish talking or sly, filthy jesting, which are not becoming, but rather the giving of thanks.
5:5 因为你们晓得这事，知道凡是淫乱的，或是污秽的，或是贪婪的，（就是拜偶像的，）在基督和神的国里，都得不到基业。
For this you realize, knowing that every fornicator or unclean person or greedy person (who is an idolater) has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
5:6 不要让人用虚空的话欺骗你们，因这些事，神的忿怒正临到那悖逆之子。
Let no one deceive you with vain words, for because of these things the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience.
5:7 所以你们不要与他们同伙。
Therefore do not be partakers with them;
5:8 你们从前是黑暗，但如今在主里面乃是光，行事为人就要像光的儿女，
For you were once darkness but are now light in the Lord; walk as children of light
5:9 （光的果子是在于一切的善、义和真实，）
(For the fruit of the light consists in all goodness and righteousness and truth),
5:10 要验证何为主所喜悦的，
Proving what is well pleasing to the Lord.
5:11 不要有分于黑暗无果子的行为，倒要责备，
And do not participate in the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather even reprove them.
5:12 因为他们所行隐密的事，就是提起来也是可耻的。
For the things which are done by them in secret it is shameful even to speak of.
5:13 一切事受了责备，就被光显明了；因为凡将事显明的，就是光。
But all things which are reproved are made manifest by the light; for everything that makes manifest is light.
5:14 所以祂说，睡着的人哪，要起来，要从死人中站起来，基督就要光照你了。
Therefore He says, Awake, sleeper, and arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you.
5:15 你们要仔细留意怎样行事为人，不要像不智慧的人，乃要像有智慧的人；
Look therefore carefully how you walk, not as unwise, but as wise,
5:16 要赎回光阴，因为日子邪恶。
Redeeming the time, because the days are evil.
5:17 所以不要作愚昧人，却要明白什么是主的旨意。
Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is.
5:18 不要醉酒，醉酒使人放荡，乃要在灵里被充满，
And do not be drunk with wine, in which is dissoluteness, but be filled in spirit,
5:19 用诗章、颂辞、灵歌，彼此对说，从心中向主歌唱、颂咏，
Speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and psalming with your heart to the Lord,
5:20 凡事要在我们主耶稣基督的名里，时常感谢神与父，
Giving thanks at all times for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ to our God and Father,
5:21 凭着敬畏基督，彼此服从：
Being subject to one another in the fear of Christ:
5:22 作妻子的，要服从自己的丈夫，如同服从主；
Wives, be subject to your own husbands as to the Lord;
5:23 因为丈夫是妻子的头，如同基督是召会的头；祂自己乃是身体的救主。
For a husband is head of the wife as also Christ is Head of the church, He Himself being the Savior of the Body.
5:24 召会怎样服从基督，妻子也要照样凡事服从丈夫。
But as the church is subject to Christ, so also let the wives be subject to their husbands in everything.
5:25 作丈夫的，要爱你们的妻子，正如基督爱召会，为召会舍了自己，
Husbands, love your wives even as Christ also loved the church and gave Himself up for her
5:26 好圣化召会，借着话中之水的洗涤洁净召会，
That He might sanctify her, cleansing her by the washing of the water in the word,
5:27 祂好献给自己，作荣耀的召会，没有斑点、皱纹、或任何这类的病，好使她成为圣别、没有瑕疵。
That He might present the church to Himself glorious, not having spot or wrinkle or any such things, but that she would be holy and without blemish.
5:28 丈夫也当照样爱自己的妻子，如同爱自己的身体；爱自己妻子的，便是爱自己了。
In the same way the husbands also ought to love their own wives as their own bodies; he who loves his own wife loves himself.
5:29 从来没有人恨恶自己的身体，总是保养顾惜，正像基督待召会一样，
For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, even as Christ also the church,
5:30 因为我们是祂身体上的肢体。
Because we are members of His Body.
5:31 为这缘故，人要离开父母，与妻子联合，二人成为一体。
For this cause a man shall leave his father and mother and shall be joined to his wife, and the two shall be one flesh.
5:32 这是极大的奥秘，但我是指着基督与召会说的。
This mystery is great, but I speak with regard to Christ and the church.
5:33 然而你们每一个人，也要这样各爱自己的妻子，如同爱自己一样；妻子也要敬畏丈夫。
Nevertheless you also, each one of you, in the same way love your own wife as yourself; and the wife should fear her husband.
以弗所书 Ephesians 第 6 章
6:1 作儿女的，要在主里顺从你们的父母，因为这是正当的。
Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.
6:2 a
"Honor your father and mother,'' which is the first commandment with a promise,
6:3 “要孝敬父母，使你亨通，在世长寿。”这是第一条带应许的诫命。
"That it may be well with you and that you may live long on the earth.''
6:4 作父亲的，不要惹你们儿女的气，只要用主的管教和警戒养育他们。
And fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but nurture them in the discipline and admonition of the Lord.
6:5 作奴仆的，要恐惧战兢的，凭心中的单纯，顺从肉身的主人，如同顺从基督一样。
Slaves, be obedient to those who are your masters according to the flesh with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as to Christ;
6:6 不要只在眼前事奉，像是讨人喜欢的，乃要像基督的奴仆，从心里实行神的旨意，
Not with eye-service as men-pleasers but as slaves of Christ, doing the will of God from the soul;
6:7 用善意服事，好像对主，不像对人；
With good will serving as slaves, as serving the Lord and not men;
6:8 晓得各人，或是为奴的，或是自主的，无论行了什么善，都必从主得着赏报。
Knowing that whatever good thing each one does, this he will receive back from the Lord, whether he is a slave or a free man.
6:9 作主人的，也要同样待奴仆，放弃威吓，知道他们和你们的主人，乃是在诸天之上，祂并不偏待人。
And masters, do the same things toward them, giving up your threatening, knowing that both their Master and yours is in the heavens, and there is no respect of
persons with Him.
6:10 末了的话，你们要在主里，靠着祂力量的权能，得着加力。
Finally, be empowered in the Lord and in the might of His strength.
6:11 要穿戴神全副的军装，使你们能以站住，抵挡魔鬼的诡计，
Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the stratagems of the devil,
6:12 因我们并不是与血肉之人摔跤，乃是与那些执政的、掌权的、管辖这黑暗世界的、以及诸天界里那邪恶的属灵势力摔跤。
For our wrestling is not against blood and flesh but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the world-rulers of this darkness, against the spiritual
forces of evil in the heavenlies.
6:13 所以要拿起神全副的军装，使你们在邪恶的日子能以抵挡，并且作成了一切，还能站立得住。
Therefore take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.
6:14 所以要站住，用真理束你们的腰，穿上义的胸甲，
Stand therefore, having girded your loins with truth and having put on the breastplate of righteousness
6:15 且以和平福音的稳固根基，当作鞋穿在脚上；
And having shod your feet with the firm foundation of the gospel of peace;
6:16 此外，拿起信的盾牌，藉此就能销灭那恶者一切火烧的箭。
Besides all these, having taken up the shield of faith, with which you will be able to quench all the flaming darts of the evil one.
6:17 还要借着各样的祷告和祈求，接受救恩的头盔，并那灵的剑，那灵就是神的话；
And receive the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which Spirit is the word of God,
6:18 时时在灵里祷告，并尽力坚持，在这事上儆醒，且为众圣徒祈求，
By means of all prayer and petition, praying at every time in spirit and watching unto this in all perseverance and petition concerning all the saints,
6:19 也替我祈求，使我在开口的时候，有发表赐给我，好放胆讲明福音的奥秘，
And for me, that utterance may be given to me in the opening of my mouth, to make known in boldness the mystery of the gospel,
6:20 （我为这福音的奥秘，作了带锁炼的大使，）使我带着锁炼，照我所当讲的，放胆讲说。
For which I am an ambassador in a chain, that in it I would speak boldly, as I ought to speak.
6:21 但为叫你们知道关于我的事，我的景况如何，有亲爱的弟兄，在主里忠信的执事推基古，要将一切全告诉你们，
But that you also may know the things concerning me, how I am doing, Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, will make all things known
to you.
6:22 我特为这事，打发他到你们那里去，好叫你们知道关于我们的事，并叫他安慰你们的心。
Him I have sent to you for this very thing, that you may know the things concerning us and that he may comfort your hearts.
6:23 愿平安与爱同着信，从父神并主耶稣基督归与弟兄们。
Peace to the brothers and love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
6:24 愿恩典与一切在不朽坏之中，爱我们主耶稣基督的人同在。
Grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ in incorruptibility.