
17. 以斯帖记 Esther
以斯帖记 Esther 第 1 章
1:1 当亚哈随鲁作王的日子，(这亚哈随鲁从印度直到古实，统管一百二十七省，)
Now in the days of Ahasuerus (this is the Ahasuerus who reigned from India to Ethiopia over one hundred twenty- seven provinces)
1:2 那些日子，亚哈随鲁王在书珊京城登了国位。
In those days when King Ahasuerus sat on the throne of his kingdom, which was in Susa the capital,
1:3 在位第三年，他为一切首领臣仆设摆筵宴。有波斯和玛代的权贵、贵胄、和各省的首领在他面前；
In the third year of his reign, he held a banquet for all his princes and his servants. The army of Persia and Media, the nobles, and the princes of the provinces
were before him
1:4 他把他国荣耀的丰富，和他盛大威严的华贵，给他们看了许多日，就是一百八十日。
As he showed the glorious wealth of his kingdom and the splendor of his great majesty for many days, for one hundred eighty days.
1:5 这些日子满了，王又为所有在书珊京城的人民，无论尊大或卑小，在王宫花园的院内设摆筵宴七日。
And when these days were completed, the king held a banquet for seven days for all the people found in Susa the capital, both great and small, in the court of
the garden of the king's palace.
1:6 有白色棉织的幔子、蓝色的挂帐，用细麻绳、紫色绳系在银环和白玉石柱上，有金银的床榻摆在斑岩、白玉石、珠母、黑玉石铺的石地上。
There were white cotton curtains and blue hangings tied with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and marble pillars, as well as couches of gold and silver
upon a pavement of porphyry, white marble, mother-of-pearl, and mosaics.
1:7 用金器皿赐酒，器皿各有不同；照着王的厚意，所赐的御酒甚多。
And drinks were served in vessels of gold, and the vessels were different from one another; and the royal wine was abundant, according to the king's bounty.
1:8 喝酒乃照着定例，不准勉强人，因王吩咐宫里的一切臣宰，要照各人的意愿待他们。
And the drinking was, by commandment, without constraint; for so the king had ordered all the officials of his house to do as each man desired.
1:9 王后瓦实提在亚哈随鲁王的王宫中，也为妇女设摆筵宴。
Also Vashti the queen held a banquet for the women in the royal house that belonged to King Ahasuerus.
1:10 第七日，亚哈随鲁王饮酒，心中快乐，就吩咐在他面前侍立的七个太监米户幔、比斯他、哈波拿、比革他、亚拔他、西达、甲迦，
On the seventh day, when the heart of the king was merry with wine, he commanded Mehuman, Biztha, Harbona, Bigtha, and Abagtha, Zethar, and Carcas, the
seven eunuchs who served in the presence of Ahasuerus the king,
1:11 请王后瓦实提戴着后冠到王面前，使各民和臣宰看她的美丽，因为她容貌甚美。
To bring Vashti the queen before the king with the royal crown, in order to show her beauty to the peoples and the princes; for she was beautiful in appearance.
1:12 王后瓦实提却不肯遵王藉太监所传的命令而来，所以王甚发怒，怒火中烧。
But Queen Vashti refused to come at the king's command given through the king's eunuchs; and the king became very angry, and his wrath burned within him.
1:13 王就问通达时务的智慧人说，(按王的常规，办事必先询问一切通晓法例和公理的人；
Then the king said to the wise men, who knew the times (for such was the custom of the king toward all who knew law and justice;
1:14 那在王左右的是波斯和玛代的七个首领甲示拿、示达、押玛他、他施斯、米力、玛西拿和米母干，他们常见王面，在国中坐首位，)
And those next to him were Carshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Meres, Marsena, and Memucan, the seven princes of Persia and Media, who saw the king's
face and sat first in the kingdom):
1:15 王后瓦实提不遵行亚哈随鲁王藉太监所传的命令，照法例应当怎样对待她？
According to the law, what is to be done to Queen Vashti because she has not performed the command of King Ahasuerus given through the eunuchs?
1:16 米母干在王和众首领面前回答说，王后瓦实提不但得罪王，也得罪亚哈随鲁王各省的臣民；
And Memucan answered before the king and the princes, Vashti the queen has done wrong not only to the king but also to all the princes and all the peoples
who are in all the provinces of King Ahasuerus.
1:17 因为王后所行的这事必传到众妇人的耳中，说，亚哈随鲁王吩咐王后瓦实提到王面前，她却不来，这就使她们藐视自己的丈夫。
For this deed of the queen will go out to all women, causing them to view their husbands contemptibly as they say, King Ahasuerus commanded Vashti the
queen to be brought to his presence, but she did not come.
1:18 今日波斯和玛代的众夫人听见王后所行的这事，必向王的众臣照样行；这样就必多有藐视和忿怒的事了。
And this day the princesses of Persia and Media who have heard of the queen's deed will speak likewise to all the king's princes, and contempt and wrath will
abound.
1:19 王若以为美，可以降旨，写在波斯和玛代人的法例中，永不废除，不准瓦实提再到亚哈随鲁王面前，又请王将她王后的位分赐给比她好的人。
If it please the king, let a royal order go forth from him, and let it be written among the laws of the Persians and the Medes, so that it cannot be overruled, that
Vashti come no more into the presence of King Ahasuerus and that the king give her royal estate to another who is better than she.
1:20 王所降的旨意传遍通国，(国度本来广大，)所有的妇人，无论丈夫尊大或卑小，都必尊敬他。
And when the king's decree which he will make is heard throughout all his kingdom, vast though it is, all women will give honor to their husbands, great and
small.
1:21 王和众首领都以米母干的话为美，王就照这话去行，
And this word pleased the king and the princes, and the king did according to Memucan's word.
1:22 发诏书到王的各省，依照各省的文字达于各省，依照各族的方言达于各族，使作丈夫的在自己家中作主，各说本族的方言。
So he sent letters to all the king's provinces, to each province in its own script and to each people in their own language, that every man should be master in his
own house and speak in the language of his own people.
以斯帖记 Esther 第 2 章
2:1 这些事以后，亚哈随鲁王的忿怒止息，就想念瓦实提和她所行的，并怎样降旨办她。
After these things, when the anger of King Ahasuerus subsided, he remembered Vashti and what she had done and what had been decreed against her.
2:2 于是王的侍臣对王说，不如为王寻找美貌的年少处女。
498
Then the king's attendants who served him said, Let young virgins, beautiful in appearance, be sought for the king;
2:3 王可以派官员在国中的各省，把一切美貌的年少处女招聚到书珊京城的女院，交在王的太监，那照管女子的希该手下，给她们美容润身的用品。
And let the king appoint officers in all the provinces of his kingdom to gather all the young virgins, beautiful in appearance, to Susa the capital, to the house of the
women and into the custody of Hegai the king's eunuch, who is in charge of the women; and let their cosmetics be given to them.
2:4 王所喜爱的少女可以立为王后，代替瓦实提。王以这事为美，就如此行。
And let the young woman who pleases the king become queen in place of Vashti. And the word pleased the king, and he did so.
2:5 在书珊京城有一个犹大人，名叫末底改，是便雅悯人基士的曾孙，示每的孙子，睚珥的儿子；
There was a Jew in Susa the capital whose name was Mordecai the son of Jair, the son of Shimei, the son of Kish, a Benjaminite,
2:6 从前巴比伦王尼布甲尼撒将犹大王耶哥尼雅迁徙去，末底改也在那些与耶哥尼雅一同被掳的人中，从耶路撒冷被迁去。
Who had been carried away from Jerusalem with the captives who had been carried away with Jeconiah the king of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of
Babylon had carried away.
2:7 末底改抚养他叔叔的女儿哈大沙，就是以斯帖，因为她没有父母；这女子形貌美丽。她父母死了，末底改就收她为自己的女儿。
And he was foster father to Hadassah, that is, Esther, his uncle's daughter, for she had neither father nor mother; and the young woman was beautiful in form
and appearance. And when her father and mother died, Mordecai took her to himself as his daughter.
2:8 王的谕旨和法令传出，许多少女被招聚到书珊京城，交在希该手下，以斯帖也在这时候被带进王宫，交在照管女子的希该手下。
So when the king's commandment and his decree were heard, and when many young women were gathered to Susa the capital into the custody of Hegai,
Esther was taken to the king's house into the custody of Hegai, who was in charge of the women.
2:9 这少女得希该喜悦，就在他面前得恩慈。希该急速给她美容润身的用品，和她所当得的分，又给她所当得、七个从王宫挑选的侍女，并使她和她的侍
女搬入女院上好的地方。
And the young woman pleased him, and she obtained kindness in his presence. And he quickly gave her her cosmetics and her portions as well as the seven
choice young maids who were to be given her from the king's house. And he transferred her and her young maids to the best place in the house of the women.
2:10 以斯帖未曾将她是那一族、有那些亲属告诉人，因为末底改嘱咐她不可叫人知道。
Esther did not make known her people or her kindred, for Mordecai had charged her not to make these known.
2:11 末底改天天在女院前行走，要知道以斯帖平安不平安，并情况如何。
And every day Mordecai walked in front of the court of the house of the women to learn how Esther was and what was happening to her.
2:12 原来女子要先美容润身，六个月用没药油，六个月用香料和女子美容润身的用品，美容润身的日期才满足；每个少女按女子的定例预备满十二个月，
挨次进去见亚哈随鲁王时，
Now when the turn of each young woman came to go in to King Ahasuerus, at the end of the twelve months of her preparation according to the regulation for
the women (for the days of their beautification were completed as follows: six months with oil of myrrh and six months with spices and with the women's
cosmetics),
2:13 乃是这样进去见王：从女院到王宫的时候，凡她所要的，都必给她带去。
The young woman would go in to the king in this way: Anything that she desired was given her to go with her from the house of the women to the house of the
king.
2:14 晚上进去，次日早晨回到女子第二院，交在王的太监，那照管妃嫔的沙甲手下。除非王喜爱她，她被题名召见，就不再进去见王。
In the evening she would go in, and in the morning she would return to the second house of the women, to the custody of Shaashgaz the king's eunuch, who
was in charge of the concubines. She would not go again in to the king unless the king delighted in her and she was summoned by name.
2:15 末底改叔叔亚比孩的女儿，就是末底改收为自己女儿的以斯帖，按次序当进去见王的时候，除了照管女子的太监希该所指定的，她别无所求。凡看见
以斯帖的都喜悦她。
Now when the turn of Esther the daughter of Abihail, the uncle of Mordecai, who had taken her to himself as his daughter, came to go in to the king, she
requested nothing except what Hegai the king's eunuch, who was in charge of the women, advised. And Esther obtained favor in the sight of all who saw her.
2:16 亚哈随鲁王在位第七年十月，就是提别月，以斯帖被引入王宫见王。
So Esther was taken to King Ahasuerus in his royal palace in the tenth month, which is the month Tebeth, in the seventh year of his reign.
2:17 王爱以斯帖过于爱众女子；她在王面前得蒙恩宠与恩慈，比众处女更甚；王就把后冠戴在她头上，立她为王后，代替瓦实提。
And the king loved Esther more than all the other women. And she obtained favor and kindness with him more than all the other virgins, so he set the royal crown
on her head and made her queen in place of Vashti.
2:18 王给众首领和臣仆设摆盛大的筵宴，称之为以斯帖的筵宴，又向各省行豁免的事，并照王的厚意大颁赏赐。
And the king held a great banquet for all his princes and his servants, Esther's banquet; and he made it a holiday for the provinces and gave gifts according to
the king's bounty.
2:19 第二次招聚处女的时候，末底改坐在王门那里。
And when the virgins were gathered together the second time, Mordecai was sitting in the king's gate.
2:20 以斯帖照着末底改所嘱咐的，还没有将她有那些亲属，是那一族告诉人；因为以斯帖遵行末底改所说的，如同受他抚养的时候一样。
Esther had not yet made known her kindred or her people, as Mordecai had charged her; for Esther did what Mordecai told her, as she had when he was
bringing her up.
2:21 当那些日子，末底改坐在王门那里，王有两个太监辟探和提列，是守门的，恼恨亚哈随鲁王，想要下手害他。
In those days, while Mordecai was sitting in the king's gate, Bigthan and Teresh, two of the king's eunuchs, among those who were in charge of the threshold,
became angry and sought to lay hands on King Ahasuerus.
2:22 这事给末底改知道了，他就告诉王后以斯帖；以斯帖奉末底改的名，报告于王。这事经过究察，果然是实，就把二人挂在木架上；
And the thing became known to Mordecai, and he told Esther the queen; and Esther told the king in Mordecai's name.
2:23 这事且在王面前写在年代志上。
And when the matter was investigated and found to be so, the two of them were hanged on the gallows; and it was written in the book of the chronicles in the
presence of the king.
以斯帖记 Esther 第 3 章
3:1 这些事以后，亚哈随鲁王使亚甲族哈米大他的儿子哈曼尊大，抬举他，叫他位居与他在一起的众首领之上。
499
After these things King Ahasuerus promoted Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, and he advanced him and set his seat above all the princes who were
with him.
3:2 在王门那里，王的一切臣仆都跪拜哈曼，因为王曾如此吩咐；惟独末底改不跪不拜。
And all the king's servants who were in the king's gate bowed down and paid homage to Haman, for so had the king commanded concerning him. But Mordecai
did not bow down or pay homage.
3:3 在王门那里，王的臣仆问末底改说，你为何违犯王的命令呢？
Then the king's servants who were in the king's gate said to Mordecai, Why do you transgress the king's command?
3:4 他们天天这样对他说，他还是不听，他们就告诉哈曼，要看末底改的话站得住站不住，因他已经告诉他们自己是犹大人。
And when they had spoken to him day after day and he did not listen to them, they told Haman, in order to see whether Mordecai's words would stand; for he
had told them that he was a Jew.
3:5 哈曼见末底改向他不跪不拜，就怒气填胸。
And when Haman saw that Mordecai did not bow down or pay homage to him, Haman was filled with rage.
3:6 哈曼不屑只下手害末底改一人，因他们已将末底改的本族告诉他，所以他想要灭绝亚哈随鲁王通国所有的犹大人，就是末底改的本族。
But he disdained to lay hands on Mordecai alone, for they had told him who the people of Mordecai were; therefore Haman sought to destroy all the Jews, the
people of Mordecai, who were throughout the kingdom of Ahasuerus.
3:7 亚哈随鲁王十二年正月，就是尼散月，人在哈曼面前，按日子和月分掣普珥，就是掣签，择定了十二月，就是亚达月。
In the first month, which is the month Nisan, in the twelfth year of King Ahasuerus, they cast Pur, that is, the lot, before Haman from day to day and from month to
month, until it fell on the twelfth month, that is, the month Adar.
3:8 哈曼对亚哈随鲁王说，有一种民散居在王国各省的民中；他们的律例与万民的律例不同，他们也不遵行王的律例，所以容留他们对王并不妥当。
And Haman said to King Ahasuerus, There is a certain people scattered and dispersed among the peoples throughout all the provinces of your kingdom; and
their laws differ from those of all the people, nor do they keep the king's laws. Therefore it is not fitting for the king to let them remain.
3:9 王若以为美，请下诏灭绝他们；我就称一万他连得银子，交给办理王事的人，纳入王的府库。
If it please the king, let it be decreed in writing that they be destroyed, and I will pay ten thousand talents of silver into the hands of those who have charge of the
king's affairs, that they may bring it into the king's treasuries.
3:10 于是王从自己手上摘下戒指，给犹大人的仇敌亚甲族哈米大他的儿子哈曼。
Then the king took his signet ring from his hand and gave it to Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, the Jews' enemy.
3:11 王对哈曼说，这银子仍赐给你，这民也交给你，你看怎样好，就怎样待他们。
And the king said to Haman, The silver has been given to you, as well as the people, to do with them as it seems good to you.
3:12 正月十三日，王的书记被召来，照着哈曼一切所吩咐的写了诏书，传与王的总督、各省的省长、和各族的首领，依照各省的文字达于各省，依照各族
的方言达于各族；是奉亚哈随鲁王的名写的，并且用王的戒指盖了印。
Then the king's scribes were summoned in the first month, on the thirteenth day of the month; and it was decreed in writing, according to all that Haman
commanded, to the king's satraps and to the governors who were over each province and to the princes of every people, to each province in its own script and to
each people in their own tongue; in the name of King Ahasuerus was it written, and it was sealed with the king's signet ring.
3:13 诏书由驿卒送达王的各省，吩咐要将所有的犹大人，无论老少妇女孩子，在一日之间，在十二月，就是亚达月十三日，全然歼毁，杀戮灭绝，并夺他
们的财物为掠物。
And letters were sent by couriers to all the king's provinces to destroy, to slay, and to annihilate all the Jews, both young and old, children and women, in one day,
that is, the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar, and to plunder their spoil.
3:14 这文书经过抄录，颁行各省成为法令，向各族宣示，使他们预备等候那日。
A copy of the written decree to be issued as law in all the provinces was published to all the peoples so that they would be ready for that day.
3:15 驿卒奉王的谕旨急忙出发；法令也在书珊京城颁布。王和哈曼坐下饮酒，书珊城却一片慌乱。
The couriers went out, driven in haste by the king's command; and the decree was issued in Susa the capital. And the king and Haman sat down to drink, but the
city of Susa was in confusion.
以斯帖记 Esther 第 4 章
4:1 末底改知道所发生的这一切事，就撕裂衣服，穿麻衣，蒙灰尘，在城中行走，大声哀号。
Now when Mordecai learned about all that had been done, Mordecai rent his clothes and put on sackcloth and ashes; and he went out into the midst of the city
and wailed loudly and bitterly.
4:2 到了王门前停住脚步，因为穿麻衣的不可进王门。
And he went up to the entrance of the king's gate, for no one was to enter the king's gate clothed in sackcloth.
4:3 王的谕旨和法令所到的各省各处，犹大人大大悲哀，禁食哭泣哀号，穿麻衣躺在灰中的甚多。
And throughout every province, wherever the king's commandment and his decree came, there was great mourning among the Jews, with fasting and weeping
and wailing; many lay in sackcloth and ashes.
4:4 王后以斯帖的宫女和太监来把这事告诉以斯帖，她甚是忧愁，就送衣服给末底改穿，要他脱下麻衣，他却不接受。
And Esther's maids and her eunuchs came and told her, and the queen was greatly distressed. And she sent garments to clothe Mordecai, so that he might
remove his sackcloth from him; but he would not accept them.
4:5 以斯帖就把王所派伺候她的一个太监，名叫哈他革召来，吩咐他去见末底改，要知道这是什么事，是为什么缘故。
Then Esther called for Hathach, one of the king's eunuchs, whom he had appointed to serve her, and she commanded him to go out to Mordecai to find out what
this was and why it was.
4:6 于是哈他革出到王门前城的宽阔处，见末底改。
So Hathach went out to Mordecai at the open square of the city in front of the king's gate.
4:7 末底改将自己所遇的一切事，并哈曼为灭绝犹大人应许捐入王库的准确银数，都告诉了他；
And Mordecai told him all that had happened to him and the exact sum of money that Haman had promised to pay into the king's treasuries for the destruction
of the Jews.
4:8 又将所抄写在书珊颁布，要灭绝犹大人的法令交给哈他革，要他给以斯帖看，向她说明，并嘱咐她进去见王，向王求情，为本族的人在王面前恳求。
500
And he also gave him a copy of the written decree which was issued in Susa for their destruction, that he might show Esther and tell her about it and charge her
to go in to the king to supplicate him and make a request for her people before him.
4:9 哈他革回来，将末底改的话告诉以斯帖；
And Hathach came and told Esther Mordecai's words.
4:10 以斯帖就把以下的话告诉哈他革，吩咐他去见末底改，说，
Then Esther spoke to Hathach and ordered him to answer Mordecai:
4:11 王的一切臣仆和王各省的人民都知道一条法令，无论男女，若不蒙召就进入内院见王，必被处死，除非王向他伸出金杖，叫他得以存活；现在我没有
蒙召进去见王已经三十日了。
All the king's servants and the people of the king's provinces know that for any man or woman who comes in to the king at the inner court who has not been
called for, there is but one law, that he be put to death, unless the king holds out his scepter of gold to him that he may live; and I have not been called to come in
to the king during these past thirty days.
4:12 人就把以斯帖的话告诉末底改。
And they told Mordecai Esther's words.
4:13 末底改叫人回覆以斯帖说，你不要以为在王宫里就强过一切犹大人，得免这祸。
Then Mordecai told them to reply to Esther, Do not imagine that in the king's palace you will escape any more than all the Jews.
4:14 此时你若闭口不言，犹大人必从别处得解脱，蒙拯救；你和你父家就必灭亡。焉知你得了王后的位分，不是为现今这样的时机么？
For if you remain silent at this time, relief and deliverance for the Jews will arise from some other place, and you and your father's house will perish. And who
knows whether you have not come to the kingdom for such a time as this?
4:15 以斯帖就叫人回报末底改说，
Then Esther told them to reply to Mordecai,
4:16 你当去招聚书珊城所有的犹大人，为我禁食，三日之内，昼夜不吃不喝；我和我的侍女也要这样禁食。然后我就违令进去见王；我若灭亡就灭亡罢。
Go; assemble all the Jews who are to be found in Susa, and fast for me; and do not eat or drink for three days, night or day; I also and my maids will fast in the
same way. And so will I go in to the king, which is not according to the law; and if I perish, I perish.
4:17 于是末底改就去照以斯帖一切所吩咐的而行。
So Mordecai went his way and did according to all that Esther had commanded him.
以斯帖记 Esther 第 5 章
5:1 第三日，以斯帖穿上朝服，进王宫的内院，对殿站立。王在殿里坐在宝座上，对着殿门。
And on the third day Esther put on her royal robes and stood in the inner court of the king's house, in front of the king's house. And the king was sitting on his
royal throne in the royal house, opposite the entrance to the house.
5:2 王见王后以斯帖站在院内，以斯帖在王眼前蒙恩，王向她伸出手中的金杖；以斯帖便进前摸杖头。
And when the king saw Esther the queen standing in the court, she obtained favor in his sight. And the king held out to Esther his scepter of gold, which was in his
hand; and Esther drew near and touched the top of the scepter.
5:3 王对她说，王后以斯帖阿，你有什么事？你求什么？就是国的一半，也必赐给你。
Then the king said to her, What troubles you, Queen Esther? And what is your request? It shall be given to you, even to the half of my kingdom.
5:4 以斯帖说，王若以为美，就请王和哈曼今日赴我所预备的筵席。
And Esther said, If it please the king, let the king and Haman come today to the banquet I have prepared for him.
5:5 王说，快把哈曼叫来，我们好照着以斯帖的话去行。于是王带着哈曼赴以斯帖所预备的筵席。
Then the king said, Bring Haman quickly, so that we may do as Esther says. And the king and Haman came to the banquet that Esther had prepared.
5:6 在酒筵中，王问以斯帖说，你要什么？我必赐给你。你求什么？就是国的一半，也必为你成就。
And the king said to Esther during the banquet of wine, What is your petition? For it shall be granted to you. And what is your request? Even to the half of the
kingdom it shall be done.
5:7 以斯帖回答说，我有所要，我有所求。
Then Esther answered and said, My petition and my request is this:
5:8 我若在王眼前蒙恩，王若喜悦赐我所要的，成就我所求的，就请王和哈曼再赴我所要预备的筵席；明日我必照王所问的说明。
If I have found favor in the king's sight, and if it please the king to grant my petition and do what I request, let the king and Haman come to the banquet that I will
prepare for them; and tomorrow I will do as the king says.
5:9 那日哈曼心中欢喜快乐的出来；但见末底改在王门不站起来，也不因他战抖，就满心恼怒末底改。
And Haman went out that day joyful and glad in heart; but when Haman saw Mordecai in the king's gate and that he did not arise or tremble because of him,
Haman was filled with anger against Mordecai.
5:10 哈曼暂且忍耐回家，叫人请他朋友和他妻子细利斯来。
But Haman restrained himself and went to his house. And he sent word and had his friends and Zeresh his wife brought to him.
5:11 哈曼将他财富的荣耀、儿女的众多、以及王使他尊大、抬举他超乎众首领和王的臣仆之上的一切事，都述说给他们听。
And Haman recounted to them the glory of his riches and the multitude of his children and all the things in which the king had promoted him and how he had
advanced him above the princes and the king's servants.
5:12 哈曼又说，王后以斯帖预备筵席，除了我之外，没有请别人随王赴席，明日王后又请我随王赴席。
Haman also said, Even Esther the queen let no one come with the king to the banquet that she had prepared except me, and tomorrow also I am invited by her,
together with the king.
5:13 只是每逢我见犹大人末底改坐在王门那里，这一切对我就都没有什么意思。
Yet all this means to me nothing as long as I see Mordecai the Jew sitting in the king's gate.
5:14 他的妻子细利斯和他一切的朋友对他说，不如叫人作一个五十肘高的木架，明早求王将末底改挂在其上，然后你可以欢欢喜喜的随王赴席。哈曼以这
话为美，就叫人作了木架。
Then Zeresh his wife and all his friends said to him, Let a gallows be made fifty cubits high, and in the morning ask the king to have Mordecai hanged on it; then
go with the king to the banquet rejoicing. And the word seemed good to Haman, and he had the gallows made.
501
以斯帖记 Esther 第 6 章
6:1 那夜王睡不着觉，就吩咐人取年代记事录来；人就在王面前念给他听。
On that night the king could not sleep, so he gave orders to bring the book of the records of the chronicles; and they were read before the king.
6:2 正念到其上写着说，王有两个太监辟探和提列，是守门的，想要下手害亚哈随鲁王，末底改告发了他们。
And it was found written that Mordecai had given a report concerning Bigthana and Teresh, two of the king's eunuchs, among those who were in charge of the
threshold, who had sought to lay hands on King Ahasuerus.
6:3 王说，末底改行了这事，赐他什么尊荣爵位没有？伺候王的臣仆说，没有赐他什么。
And the king said, What honor and dignity has been bestowed on Mordecai for this? Then the king's servants who attended him said, Nothing has been done for
him.
6:4 王说，谁在院子里？那时哈曼正进王宫的外院，要求王将末底改挂在他所预备的木架上。
And the king said, Who is in the court? Now Haman had just entered the outer court of the king's house to speak to the king about hanging Mordecai on the
gallows that he had prepared for him.
6:5 王的臣仆说，看哪，哈曼站在院内。王说，让他进来。
And the king's servants said to him, Haman is now standing in the court. And the king said, Let him come in.
6:6 哈曼就进去；王问他说，王喜欢赐尊荣的人，当如何待他呢？哈曼心里说，王喜欢赐尊荣的，不是我是谁呢？
So Haman came in; and the king said to him, What shall be done for the man whom the king desires to honor? Now Haman said in his heart, Whom would the
king desire to honor more than me?
6:7 哈曼就对王说，对于王喜欢赐尊荣的人，
And Haman said to the king, For the man whom the king desires to honor,
6:8 当将王穿过的朝服，和王所骑过、头戴御冠的马带来，
Let a royal robe be brought, one which the king has worn, and a horse on which the king has ridden and on whose head a royal crown has been set.
6:9 将朝服和马交在王极尊贵的一个大臣手中，命人将朝服给王喜欢赐尊荣的人穿上，使他骑上马，走遍城里的街市，叫人在他面前宣告说，王喜欢赐尊
荣的人，就如此待他。
And let the robe and the horse be delivered into the hand of one of the king's most noble princes; and let them array the man whom the king desires to honor
and make him ride on horseback through the street of the city; and let them proclaim before him, Thus shall it be done for the man whom the king desires to
honor.
6:10 王对哈曼说，照你所说的，快快取朝服和马，去向坐在王门那里的犹大人末底改那样行。凡你所说的，一样不可缺。
Then the king said to Haman, Quickly take the robe and the horse, as you have said, and do so to Mordecai the Jew, who sits in the king's gate. Let nothing fail of
all that you have said.
6:11 于是哈曼取了朝服和马，将朝服给末底改穿上，使他骑上马，走遍城里的街市，并在他面前宣告说，王喜欢赐尊荣的人，就如此待他。
Then Haman took the robe and the horse, and arrayed Mordecai, and made him ride through the street of the city; and he proclaimed before him, Thus shall it
be done for the man whom the king desires to honor.
6:12 末底改仍回到王门那里；哈曼却悲哀的蒙着头，急忙回家去了。
And Mordecai returned to the king's gate. But Haman hurried to his house, mourning and with his head covered.
6:13 哈曼将所遭遇的一切事，述说给他的妻子细利斯和他的众朋友听。他的智慧人和他的妻子细利斯对他说，你在末底改面前开始败落，他如果是犹大种
族，你必不能胜他，终必在他面前败落。
And Haman recounted to Zeresh his wife and to all his friends all that had happened to him. Then his wise men and Zeresh his wife said to him, If Mordecai,
before whom you have begun to fall, is of the seed of the Jews, you will not prevail against him; but you shall surely fall before him.
6:14 他们还与哈曼说话的时候，王的太监来到，催哈曼快去赴以斯帖所预备的筵席。
While they were still talking with him, the king's eunuchs arrived and hurriedly brought Haman to the banquet that Esther had prepared.
以斯帖记 Esther 第 7 章
7:1 王和哈曼进去，与王后以斯帖一同宴饮。
So the king and Haman went in to feast with Esther the queen.
7:2 在这第二天的酒筵中，王又问以斯帖说，王后以斯帖阿，你要什么？我必赐给你。你求什么？就是国的一半，也必为你成就。
And the king said again unto Esther on the second day during the banquet of wine, What is your petition, Queen Esther? And it shall be granted to you. And what
is your request? Even to the half of my kingdom it shall be done.
7:3 王后以斯帖回答说，王阿，我若在你眼前蒙恩，王若以为美，我所要的是王将我的性命赐给我，我所求的是王将我的本族赐给我；
Then Esther the queen answered and said, If I have found favor in your sight, O king, and if it please the king, let my life be given me as my petition, and that of
my people as my request;
7:4 因我和我的本族被卖了，要被歼毁，杀戮灭绝。我们若仅仅被卖为奴为婢，我也闭口不言，因为不值得叫王因敌人受搅扰。
For we have been sold, I and my people, to be destroyed, to be slain, and to perish. And if we had been sold as slaves, men and women, I would have remained
silent, for the adversary is not worth the annoyance to the king.
7:5 亚哈随鲁王问王后以斯帖说，擅敢起意如此行的是谁？这人在那里？
Then King Ahasuerus spoke and said to Esther the queen, Who is he, and where is he, who presumes to do so?
7:6 以斯帖说，敌人仇人就是这恶人哈曼。哈曼在王和王后面前就甚惊惶。
And Esther said, An adversary and an enemy, this wicked Haman. Then Haman became terrified before the king and the queen.
7:7 于是王在怒中起来，离开酒席往王宫的花园去了；哈曼见王定意要加祸处罚他，就起来，求王后以斯帖救命。
And the king arose in his anger from the banquet of wine and went into the palace garden, and Haman stood up to make a request for his life to Esther the
queen; for he saw that harm had been determined against him by the king.
7:8 王从王宫花园回到酒筵的宫内，哈曼正伏在以斯帖所靠的榻上。王说，他竟敢在这宫内，在我面前凌辱王后么？这话一出王口，人就蒙了哈曼的脸。
502
And when the king returned from the palace garden into the house of the banquet of wine, Haman was prostrate on the couch where Esther was. Then the king
said, Will he even humble the queen in front of me in this house? When the word went forth from the king's mouth, they covered Haman's face.
7:9 在王面前的一个太监哈波拿说，哈曼还为那曾说善言救王的末底改，作了五十肘高的木架，现今立在哈曼家里。王说，把哈曼挂在其上。
Then Harbonah, one of the eunuchs who were before the king, said, And also there is the gallows standing in Haman's house, fifty cubits high, which Haman has
made for Mordecai, who spoke good on behalf of the king. And the king said, Hang him on it.
7:10 于是人将哈曼挂在他为末底改所预备的木架上。王的忿怒这才止息。
So they hanged Haman on the gallows that he had prepared for Mordecai. Then the king's anger subsided.
以斯帖记 Esther 第 8 章
8:1 当日，亚哈随鲁王把犹大人仇敌哈曼的家产赐给王后以斯帖。末底改也来到王面前，因为以斯帖已经把末底改是她什么亲属，告诉了王。
On that day King Ahasuerus gave the house of Haman, the enemy of the Jews, to Esther the queen. And Mordecai came before the king, for Esther had disclosed
what he was to her.
8:2 王摘下自己的戒指，就是他从哈曼取回的，给了末底改。以斯帖派末底改管理哈曼的家产。
And the king took off his signet ring, which he had taken from Haman, and gave it to Mordecai. And Esther set Mordecai over the house of Haman.
8:3 以斯帖又在王面前进言；她俯伏在王脚前，流泪哀告，求他除掉亚甲族哈曼所设计要害犹大人的恶谋。
And Esther spoke again before the king; and she fell down at his feet and wept and pleaded with him to overturn the evil plan of Haman the Agagite and his plot
which he had plotted against the Jews.
8:4 王向以斯帖伸出金杖；以斯帖就起来，站在王前，
Then the king held out the scepter of gold to Esther. So Esther arose and stood before the king.
8:5 说，王若以为美，我若在王面前蒙恩，这事若在王面前显为对，我若在王眼前蒙喜悦，请王写诏书，撤回亚甲族哈米大他的儿子哈曼设谋传达的诏书，
就是他所写，要除灭在王各省之犹大人的。
And she said, If it please the king, and if I have found favor before him, and the thing seem right before the king, and I be pleasing in his eyes, let it be written to
reverse the letters devised by Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, which he wrote in order to destroy the Jews who are in all the king's provinces.
8:6 我何忍见我本族的人遭祸？何忍见我的亲族被灭呢？
For how can I bear to see the evil that will befall my people? Or how can I bear to see the destruction of my kindred?
8:7 亚哈随鲁王对王后以斯帖和犹大人末底改说，因哈曼下手害犹大人，我已将他的家产赐给以斯帖，人也将哈曼挂在木架上。
Then King Ahasuerus said to Esther the queen and to Mordecai the Jew, I have now given Esther the house of Haman, and him have they hanged on the gallows
because he stretched out his hand against the Jews.
8:8 你们可以照你们所看为好的，奉王的名写诏书给犹大人，用王的戒指盖印；因为奉王名所写、用王戒指盖印的谕旨，人都不能撤回。
Write also to the Jews, as it pleases you, in the king's name, and seal it with the king's signet ring; for a decree which has been written in the king's name and
sealed with the king's signet ring cannot be reversed.
8:9 那时是三月，就是西弯月，二十三日，王的书记被召了来，照着末底改一切所吩咐的写了诏书，传与那从印度直到古实一百二十七省的犹大人、总督、
省长和首领，依照各省的文字达于各省，依照各族的方言达于各族，并依照犹大人的文字和方言达于犹大人。
Then the king's scribes were called at that time, in the third month, which is the month Sivan, on the twenty-third day of the month. And it was decreed in writing,
according to all that Mordecai commanded, to the Jews and to the satraps and governors and the princes of the provinces, which are from India to Ethiopia, one
hundred twenty-seven provinces, to each province in its own script and to each people in their own language, and to the Jews in their own script and in their
own language.
8:10 末底改奉亚哈随鲁王的名写诏书，用王的戒指盖印，把诏书交由驿卒，骑王用的御圈快马送达各处。
And he wrote in the name of King Ahasuerus and sealed it with the king's signet ring; and he sent letters by couriers on horseback, riding on swift steeds that
were used in the king's service, bred of the royal stud,
8:11 诏书中，王准各城的犹大人聚集保护自己的性命，歼毁杀戮灭绝各族各省要攻击犹大人的一切仇敌，并他们的孩子和妇女，夺取他们的财物为掠物，
In which letters the king allowed the Jews that were in every city to assemble and to stand for their life, to destroy, to slay, and to annihilate all the power of the
people and province that might assault them, their little ones, and their women, and to plunder their spoil,
8:12 这要在一日之间，在十二月，就是亚达月，十三日，在亚哈随鲁王的各省执行。
On one day in all the provinces of King Ahasuerus, on the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar.
8:13 这文书经过抄录，颁行各省成为法令，向各族宣示，使犹大人预备等候那日，在仇敌身上报仇。
A copy of the written decree to be issued as law in every province was published to all the peoples so that the Jews would be ready for that day to avenge
themselves on their enemies.
8:14 于是骑御用快马的驿卒被王命催促，急忙起行；法令在书珊京城颁布。
So the couriers, riding on swift steeds that were used in the king's service, went out, driven in haste by the king's command; and the decree was issued in Susa
the capital.
8:15 末底改穿着蓝色白色的朝服，头戴大金冠冕，又穿紫色细麻布的外袍，从王面前出来；书珊城的人民都欢呼快乐。
And Mordecai went forth from the presence of the king in royal robes of blue and white, and with a large crown of gold, and with a garment of fine linen and
purple; and the city of Susa shouted and rejoiced.
8:16 犹大人有光荣，欢喜快乐而得尊贵。
For the Jews there was light and joy, and gladness and honor.
8:17 王的谕旨和法令所到的各省各城，犹大人都欢喜快乐，设摆筵宴，以那日为吉日。那地的各族中，有许多人因惧怕犹大人，就入了犹大籍。
And throughout every province and throughout every city, wherever the king's commandment and his decree came, there was for the Jews joy and gladness, a
feast and a good day. And many from among the peoples of the land became Jews, for the fear of the Jews had fallen on them.
以斯帖记 Esther 第 9 章
9:1 十二月，就是亚达月，十三日，王的谕旨和法令将要执行；那是犹大人的仇敌盼望辖制他们，犹大人反倒辖制恨他们之人的日子，
503
Now in the twelfth month, which is the month Adar, on the thirteenth day of the month, when the king's commandment and his decree were about to be
executed, on the day that the Jew's enemies hoped to rule over them (but it turned out to the contrary, so that the Jews had rule over them that hated them),
9:2 犹大人在亚哈随鲁王各省自己的城里聚集，下手击杀那些想要害他们的人。无人能抵挡他们，因为各族都惧怕他们。
The Jews assembled in their cities throughout all the provinces of King Ahasuerus to lay hand on those who sought their harm. And no one could withstand them,
for the fear of them had fallen upon all the peoples.
9:3 各省的首领、总督、省长、和办理王事的人，因惧怕末底改，就都帮助犹大人。
And all the princes of the provinces and the satraps and the governors and those who did the king's business, helped the Jews, because the fear of Mordecai
had fallen upon them.
9:4 末底改在朝中为大，名声传遍各省；末底改日渐昌大。
For Mordecai was great in the king's house, and his fame went forth throughout all the provinces; for the man Mordecai became greater and greater.
9:5 犹大人用刀击杀一切仇敌，杀戮灭绝，任意对待恨他们的人。
And the Jews struck all their enemies with the stroke of the sword and with slaughter and destruction, and they did as it pleased them to those who hated them.
9:6 在书珊京城，犹大人杀灭了五百人。
And in Susa the capital the Jews slew and destroyed five hundred men.
9:7 还有巴珊大他、达分、亚斯帕他、
And Parshandatha and Dalphon and Aspatha
9:8 破拉他、亚大利雅、亚利大他、
And Poratha and Adalia and Aridatha
9:9 帕玛斯他、亚利赛、亚利代、瓦耶撒他，
And Parmashta and Arisai and Aridai and Vaizatha,
9:10 这十人都是哈米大他的孙子，犹大人仇敌哈曼的儿子，犹大人也把他们杀了；但犹大人没有下手掠夺财物。
The ten sons of Haman the son of Hammedatha, the Jew's enemy, they slew; but they did not lay their hand on the spoil.
9:11 当日在书珊京城被杀的人数，呈到王面前。
On that day the number of those who were slain in Susa the capital was brought before the king.
9:12 王对王后以斯帖说，犹大人在书珊京城杀灭了五百人，又杀了哈曼的十个儿子；在王其余各省不知如何呢！现在你要什么？我必赐给你。你还求什么？
也必为你成就。
And the king said to Esther the queen, The Jews have slain and destroyed five hundred men in Susa the capital as well as the ten sons of Haman. What then
have they done in the rest of the king's provinces! Now what is your petition? And it shall be granted to you. Or what is your further request? And it shall be done.
9:13 以斯帖说，王若以为美，求你准书珊的犹大人，明日也照今日的法令行，并将哈曼十个儿子的尸首挂在木架上。
Then Esther said, If it please the king, let it be granted to the Jews who are in Susa to do tomorrow also according to this day's decree, and let Haman's ten sons
be hanged upon the gallows.
9:14 王便下令如此行；法令在书珊颁布，人就把哈曼十个儿子的尸首挂了起来。
And the king commanded it to be so done; and a decree was issued in Susa, and they hanged Haman's ten sons.
9:15 亚达月十四日，书珊的犹大人又聚集，在书珊杀了三百人，但没有下手掠夺财物。
And the Jews who were in Susa assembled also on the fourteenth day of the month Adar and slew three hundred men in Susa, but they did not lay their hand on
the spoil.
9:16 在王各省其余的犹大人也都聚集保护自己的性命，脱离仇敌，得享安息。他们杀了恨他们的人七万五千，但没有下手掠夺财物。
And the rest of the Jews who were in the king's provinces assembled and stood for their lives, and they had rest from their enemies. And they slew seventy-five
thousand of those who hated them; but they did not lay their hand on the spoil.
9:17 这是在亚达月十三日的事；这月十四日他们享安息，并以这日为设筵欢乐的日子。
This happened on the thirteenth day of the month Adar; and on the fourteenth day of the same they rested and made it a day of feasting and rejoicing.
9:18 但书珊的犹大人，在十三日、十四日聚集杀戮仇敌；这月十五日才享安息，并以这日为设筵欢乐的日子。
But the Jews who were in Susa assembled on the thirteenth day of the month and on the fourteenth of the month; and on the fifteenth day of the same they
rested and made it a day of feasting and rejoicing.
9:19 所以住在无城墙之村庄的犹大乡民，都定亚达月十四日为设筵欢乐的吉日，彼此馈送礼物。
Therefore the Jews of the villages, who dwell in towns in the open, make the fourteenth day of the month Adar a day of rejoicing and feasting, and a good day,
and a day of sending portions to one another.
9:20 末底改记录这些事，并将书信送达亚哈随鲁王各省远近所有的犹大人，
And Mordecai wrote these things down, and he sent letters to all the Jews who were in all the provinces of King Ahasuerus, both near and far,
9:21 嘱咐他们每年要守亚达月十四日和十五日，
Enjoining them that they should keep the fourteenth day of the month Adar and the fifteenth day of the same, year by year,
9:22 作为犹大人脱离仇敌得安息的日子，并转忧为喜、转悲哀为吉日的月分；且定这两日为设筵欢乐、彼此馈送、赒济穷人的日子。
As the days on which the Jews had rest from their enemies, and as the month which was turned for them from sorrow to rejoicing and from mourning into a
good day; that they should make them days of feasting and rejoicing, and of sending portions to one another and gifts to the poor.
9:23 于是，犹大人执行他们所开始实行，并末底改所写要他们作的事。
And the Jews undertook what they had begun to do and what Mordecai had written to them to do.
9:24 原本所有犹大人的仇敌，亚甲族哈米大他的儿子哈曼，设谋害犹大人，要灭绝他们，并且掣了普珥，就是掣了签，要击溃灭绝他们；
For Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, the enemy of all the Jews, had plotted against the Jews to destroy them and had cast Pur, that is, the lot, to vex
them and destroy them;
9:25 但以斯帖来到王面前，王便写诏书，吩咐使哈曼谋害犹大人的恶谋，反过来加到他自己头上，并吩咐把他和他的众子都挂在木架上。
But when Esther came before the king, he commanded by letter that his wicked plot, which he had plotted against the Jews, should return upon his own head
and that he and his sons should be hanged on the gallows.
9:26 照着普珥这名字，人就称这两日为普珥日。因这信上一切的话，又因他们在这事上所看见的，并他们所遭遇的，
Therefore they called these days Purim, after the name of Pur. Therefore because of all the words of this letter and what they had seen in this regard and what
had happened to them,
9:27 犹大人就立了定例，应承自己与后裔，并归附他们的人，每年必按所记载的，并按指定的日期守这两日，永远不废；
504
The Jews established and made a custom for themselves and their seed and all who joined themselves to them, that they would not fail to keep these two days
according to what has been written about them and according to the appointed time for them, year by year;
9:28 世世代代、家家户户、各省各城，人必记念遵守这两日，使这普珥日在犹大人中不被废掉，在他们后裔中也不被忘记。
And that these days should be remembered and kept throughout every generation, every family, every province, and every city; and that these days of Purim
should not fail from among the Jews, nor the remembrance of them fade from their seed.
9:29 亚比孩的女儿王后以斯帖，和犹大人末底改，以全权写了第二封信，确立普珥日的事，
Then Esther the queen, the daughter of Abihail, and Mordecai the Jew wrote with all authority to confirm this second letter of Purim.
9:30 末底改将书信，就是和平真诚的话，送达亚哈随鲁国中一百二十七省所有的犹大人，
And he sent letters to all the Jews, to the one hundred twenty-seven provinces of the kingdom of Ahasuerus, that is, words of peace and truth,
9:31 劝他们按所定的日期，守这两日为普珥日，禁食呼求，是照犹大人末底改和王后以斯帖为他们所定的，也是照他们为自己与后裔所定的。
Establishing these days of Purim at their appointed times, as Mordecai the Jew and Esther the queen had established for them and as they had established for
themselves and for their seed in the matter of the fastings and their cry.
9:32 以斯帖的命令确立了普珥日的这些事；这命令也记录在书上。
And the commandment of Esther confirmed these matters of Purim; and it was written in the book.
以斯帖记 Esther 第 10 章
10:1 亚哈随鲁王使陆地和海岛的人民都进贡。
Now King Ahasuerus laid a tribute on the land and on the coastlands of the sea.
10:2 他以权柄勇力所行的，并王使末底改得尊大的详确经过，岂不都写在玛代和波斯王的年代志上么？
And all the acts of his power and of his might, and the full account of the greatness of Mordecai, to which the king advanced him, are they not written in the book
of the chronicles of the kings of Media and Persia?
10:3 犹大人末底改作亚哈随鲁王的宰相，在犹大人中为大，得他众弟兄的喜悦；他为本族的人求好处，为他种族所有人的幸福说话。
For Mordecai the Jew was second to King Ahasuerus and great among the Jews and well-regarded by the multitude of his brothers, one who sought the good
of his people and who spoke for the welfare of all his seed.