2. 出埃及记 Exodus
出埃及记 Exodus 第 1 章
1:1 以色列的众子，各带家眷，和雅各一同来到埃及。他们的名字记在下面：
Now these are the names of the sons of Israel who came to Egypt with Jacob; each man came with his household:
1:2 流便、西缅、利未和犹大，
Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah,
1:3 以萨迦、西布伦和便雅悯，
Issachar, Zebulun, and Benjamin,
1:4 但和拿弗他利，迦得和亚设。
Dan and Naphtali, Gad and Asher.
1:5 凡从雅各生的，共有七十人；但约瑟已经在埃及。
And all the persons who came forth from the loins of Jacob were seventy persons, but Joseph was already in Egypt.
1:6 约瑟和他的众弟兄，并那一代的人，都死了。
And Joseph died, and all his brothers, and all that generation.
1:7 但以色列人繁衍孳生，并且增多，极其强盛，满了那地。
But the children of Israel were fruitful and increased abundantly and multiplied and grew exceedingly strong, and the land was filled with them.
1:8 有不晓得约瑟的新王兴起，治理埃及。
And a new king rose up over Egypt, who did not know of Joseph.
1:9 他对他的民说，看哪，这以色列民比我们多，又比我们强盛。
And he said to his people, The people of the children of Israel are now more numerous and stronger than we.
1:10 来罢，我们不如用巧计待他们，免得他们多起来，日后若发生战事，就联合我们的仇敌攻击我们，离开这地上去了。
Come, let us deal wisely with them, lest they multiply and, when some war occurs, they also join themselves to those who hate us and fight against us and go up
from the land.
1:11 于是埃及人派督工辖制他们，加重担苦害他们。他们为法老建造两座积货城，就是比东和兰塞。
So they set taskmasters over them to afflict them with their burdens. And they built storage cities for Pharaoh, Pithom and Raamses.
1:12 只是越发苦害，他们越发增多，越发蔓延；埃及人就惧怕以色列人。
But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and the more they spread out so that they came to dread the children of Israel.
1:13 埃及人严严的使以色列人作工，
And the Egyptians made the children of Israel serve with harshness,
1:14 使他们因作苦工觉得命苦；无论是和泥，是作砖，是作田间各样的工，在一切的工上都严严的待他们。
And they made their lives bitter with hard labor in mortar and in brick and in all kinds of labor in the field; all their labor with which they made them serve was
with harshness.
1:15 有希伯来的两个接生妇，一个名叫施弗拉，一个名叫普阿；埃及王对她们说，
And the king of Egypt spoke to the Hebrew midwives, one whose name was Shiphrah and the other whose name was Puah;
1:16 你们为希伯来妇人接生，看她们临盆的时候，若是男孩，就把他杀了；若是女孩，就让她存活。
And he said, When you act as midwives for the Hebrew women and see them on the birthstool, if it is a son, then you shall put him to death; but if it is a daughter,
then she shall live.
1:17 但是接生妇敬畏神，不照埃及王的吩咐行，竟让男孩存活。
But the midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt had commanded them but let the male children live.
1:18 埃及王召了接生妇来，说，你们为什么作这事，让男孩存活？
So the king of Egypt called for the midwives and said to them, Why have you done this thing and let the male children live?
1:19 接生妇对法老说，因为希伯来妇人与埃及妇人不同；希伯来妇人本是健壮的，接生妇还没有到，她们已经生产了。
And the midwives said to Pharaoh, Because the Hebrew women are not like the Egyptian women; for they are vigorous: before the midwife comes to them, they
give birth.
1:20 神厚待接生妇。以色列人多起来，极其强盛。
And God dealt well with the midwives, and the people multiplied and grew very strong.
1:21 接生妇因为敬畏神，神便为她们建立家室。
And because the midwives feared God, He established households for them.
1:22 法老吩咐他的众民说，希伯来人所生的男孩，你们都要丢在河里；一切的女孩，你们可以让她存活。
And Pharaoh commanded all his people, saying, Every son who is born you shall cast into the River, but every daughter you shall let live.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 2 章
2:1 有一个利未家的人，娶了一个利未女子为妻。
And a man of the house of Levi went and took a daughter of Levi as wife.
2:2 那女人怀孕，生了一个儿子；见他俊美，就把他藏了三个月；
And the woman conceived and bore a son; and when she saw that he was a fine child, she hid him three months.
2:3 后来不能再藏，就取了一个蒲草箱，抹上石漆和柏油，将孩子放在里面，把箱子搁在河边的芦苇中。
And when she could no longer hide him, she took for him a papyrus basket and plastered it with tar and pitch; and she put the child in it and placed it among the
reeds on the bank of the River.
2:4 孩子的姐姐远远站着，要知道他究竟会怎样。
And his sister stood at a distance to find out what would happen to him.
2:5 法老的女儿下到河边洗澡，她的使女们在河边行走。她看见那箱子在芦苇中，就打发婢女去拿来。
57
And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to bathe at the River while her maidens walked alongside the River. And she saw the basket in the midst of the reeds
and sent her female servant, and she brought it to her.
2:6 她打开箱子，看见那孩子。孩子哭了，她就怜惜他，说，这是希伯来人的一个孩子。
And she opened it and saw the child, and there was the boy, weeping. And she had compassion on him and said, This is one of the Hebrews' children.
2:7 那时孩子的姐姐对法老的女儿说，我去在希伯来妇人中叫一个奶妈来，为你奶这孩子，可以不可以？
Then his sister said to Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go and call a nurse from the Hebrew women for you that she may nurse the child for you?
2:8 法老的女儿说，去罢。童女就去叫了孩子的母亲来。
And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Go. And the girl went and called the child's mother.
2:9 法老的女儿对她说，你把这孩子抱去，为我奶他，我必给你工价。妇人就抱了孩子去奶他。
And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Take this child away and nurse him for me, and I will give you your wages. So the woman took the child and nursed him.
2:10 孩子渐长，妇人把他带到法老的女儿那里，就作了她的儿子。她给孩子起名叫摩西，说，因我把他从水里拉出来。
And the child grew, and she brought him to Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son. And she called his name Moses and said, Because I drew him out of
the water.
2:11 后来，摩西长大，出去到他弟兄那里，看他们所受的重担；他见一个埃及人打一个希伯来人，他的一个弟兄。
And in those days, when Moses had grown up, he went out to his brothers and looked on their burdens; and he saw an Egyptian beating a Hebrew, one of his
brothers.
2:12 他左右观看，见没有人，就把那埃及人打死了，藏在沙土里。
And he looked this way and that, and when he saw that there was no one there, he struck the Egyptian down and hid him in the sand.
2:13 第二天他出去，见有两个希伯来人争斗，就对那欺负人的说，你为什么打你同族的人？
And he went out the next day, and there were two Hebrew men struggling together; and he said to the one who was in the wrong, Why are you beating your
companion?
2:14 那人说，谁立你作我们的首领和审判官呢？难道你想要杀我，像杀那埃及人么？摩西便惧怕，说，这事必是被人知道了。
And he said, Who appointed you a ruler and a judge over us? Are you thinking to kill me as you killed the Egyptian? And Moses became frightened and said,
Surely the matter is known.
2:15 法老听见这事，就想要杀摩西；但摩西逃避法老，去米甸地居住。
Now when Pharaoh heard of this matter, he sought to kill Moses. But Moses fled from Pharaoh to dwell in the land of Midian, and he sat down by a well.
2:16 一日，他在井旁坐下。米甸的祭司有七个女儿；她们来打水，打满了槽，要给父亲的群羊喝水。
Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters, and they came and drew water and filled the troughs to water their father's flock.
2:17 有牧羊的人来，把她们赶走，摩西却起来帮助她们，又给她们的群羊喝了水。
And the shepherds came and drove them away, but Moses rose up and helped them and watered their flock.
2:18 她们回到父亲流珥那里；他说，今日你们为何这么快就回来？
And when they came to Reuel their father, he said, Why have you come back so quickly today?
2:19 她们说，有一个埃及人救我们脱离牧羊人的手，并且还为我们打水给群羊喝。
And they said, An Egyptian delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds, and he even drew water for us as well and watered the flock.
2:20 他对女儿们说，那个人在那里？你们为什么撇下他呢？你们去请他来吃饭。
And he said to his daughters, And where is he? Why did you leave the man? Invite him to eat a meal.
2:21 摩西甘心和那人同住；那人把他的女儿西坡拉给摩西为妻。
And Moses agreed to stay with the man, and he gave Moses Zipporah his daughter.
2:22 西坡拉生了一个儿子，摩西给他起名叫革舜，因为他说，我在异地作了寄居的。
And she bore a son, and he called his name Gershom, for he said, I have been a sojourner in a foreign land.
2:23 过了许久，埃及王死了。以色列人因受奴役，就叹息哀号，他们的哀声上达于神。
And in the course of those many days the king of Egypt died, and the children of Israel groaned because of the bondage. And they cried out, and their cry went
up to God because of their bondage.
2:24 神听见他们的哀叹，就记念祂与亚伯拉罕、以撒、雅各所立的约。
And God heard their groaning, and God remembered His covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob.
2:25 神看顾以色列人，也知道他们的苦情。
And God looked upon the children of Israel, and God took notice of them.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 3 章
3:1 摩西牧养他岳父米甸祭司叶忒罗的羊群；一日领羊群往旷野的背面去，来到神的山，就是何烈山。
Now Moses was shepherding the flock of Jethro his father-in-law, the priest of Midian; and he led the flock to the back of the wilderness and came to the
mountain of God, to Horeb.
3:2 耶和华的使者从荆棘中火焰里向摩西显现。摩西观看，不料，荆棘被火烧着，却没有烧毁。
And the Angel of Jehovah appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a thornbush. And when he looked, there was the thornbush, burning with fire; but
the thornbush was not consumed.
3:3 摩西说，我要过去看这大异象，这荆棘为何没有烧掉呢？
And Moses said, I must turn aside now and see this great sight, why the thornbush does not burn up.
3:4 耶和华见他过去要看，神就从荆棘中呼叫说，摩西，摩西。他说，我在这里。
And when Jehovah saw that he had turned aside to look, God called to him out of the midst of the thornbush and said, Moses, Moses. And he said, Here I am.
3:5 神说，不要近前来。把你脚上的鞋脱下来，因为你所站的地方乃是圣地；
And He said, Do not come near here. Remove your sandals from your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground.
3:6 又说，我是你父亲的神，是亚伯拉罕的神，以撒的神，雅各的神。摩西遮住脸，因为怕看神。
And He said, I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look at God.
3:7 耶和华说，我的百姓在埃及所受的困苦，我实在看见了；他们因受督工的辖制所发的哀声，我也听见了；我原知道他们的痛苦。
And Jehovah said, I have surely seen the affliction of My people who are in Egypt and have heard their cry because of their taskmasters, for I know their sorrows.
58
3:8 我下来要救他们脱离埃及人的手，领他们从那地出来，上到美好、宽阔、流奶与蜜之地，就是到迦南人、赫人、亚摩利人、比利洗人、希未人、耶布
斯人的地方。
And I have come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians and to bring them up out of that land to a good and spacious land, to a land flowing with
milk and honey, to the place of the Canaanites and the Hittites and the Amorites and the Perizzites and the Hivites and the Jebusites.
3:9 现在以色列人的哀声达到我这里，我也看见埃及人怎样欺压他们。
And now the cry of the children of Israel has come to Me, and I have also seen the oppression with which the Egyptians oppress them.
3:10 故此，我要差你去法老那里，使你可以将我的百姓以色列人从埃及领出来。
So come now, and I will send you to Pharaoh, that you may bring My people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt.
3:11 摩西对神说，我是谁，竟能去法老那里，将以色列人从埃及领出来呢？
But Moses said to God, Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and that I should bring the children of Israel out of Egypt?
3:12 神说，我必与你同在；你将百姓从埃及领出来之后，你们必在这山上事奉神；这就是我差遣你的证据。
And He said, Surely I will be with you, and this shall be the sign for you that I have sent you: When you have brought the people out of Egypt, you will serve God
upon this mountain.
3:13 摩西对神说，我到以色列人那里，对他们说，你们祖宗的神差我到你们这里来；他们若问我说，祂叫什么名字？我要对他们说什么？
Then Moses said to God, If I come to the children of Israel and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they say to me, What is His name?
what shall I say to them?
3:14 神对摩西说，我是那我是；又说，你要对以色列人这样说，那我是差我到你们这里来。
And God said to Moses, I AM WHO I AM. And He said, Thus you shall say to the children of Israel, I AM has sent me to you
3:15 神又对摩西说，你要对以色列人这样说，耶和华你们祖宗的神，就是亚伯拉罕的神，以撒的神，雅各的神，差我到你们这里来。这是我的名，直到永
远；这也是我的记念，直到万代。
And God also said to Moses, Thus you shall say to the children of Israel, Jehovah, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of
Jacob, has sent me to you. This is My name forever, and this is My memorial from generation to generation.
3:16 你去招聚以色列的长老，对他们说，耶和华你们祖宗的神，就是亚伯拉罕、以撒、雅各的神，向我显现，说，我实在眷顾了你们，也看见了你们在埃
及受到什么样的对待。
Go, and gather the elders of Israel together, and say to them, Jehovah, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, has appeared to me,
saying, I have surely visited you and seen what is being done to you in Egypt.
3:17 我也说，我要将你们从埃及的困苦中领出来，上到迦南人、赫人、亚摩利人、比利洗人、希未人、耶布斯人之地，就是到流奶与蜜之地。
And I have said, I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaanites and the Hittites and the Amorites and the Perizzites and the Hivites
and the Jebusites, to a land flowing with milk and honey.
3:18 他们必听你的话；你和以色列的长老要去见埃及王，对他说，耶和华希伯来人的神遇见了我们；现在求你让我们走三天的路程，到旷野里去，我们好
献祭给耶和华我们的神。
And they will listen to your voice, and you shall come, you and the elders of Israel, to the king of Egypt, and you shall say to him, Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews,
has met with us; and now let us go a three days' journey into the wilderness that we may sacrifice to Jehovah our God.
3:19 但我知道，即使受大能的手强迫，埃及王也不会让你们去。
But I know that the king of Egypt will not let you go, not even when compelled by a mighty hand.
3:20 所以我必伸出手来，在埃及中间施行我一切的奇事，击打那地，然后他才让你们去。
So I will stretch out My hand and strike Egypt with all My wonders which I will perform in the midst of it, and after that he will let you go.
3:21 我必叫这民在埃及人眼前蒙恩，使你们去的时候不至空手而去。
And I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, so that when you go, you will not go empty-handed.
3:22 但各妇女必向她的邻舍，并居住在她家里的女人，要银器、金器和衣裳，好给你们的儿女穿戴。这样，你们就把埃及人的财物掠夺了。
But every woman will ask of her neighbor and of any woman living in her house for articles of silver and articles of gold and clothing, and you will put them on
your sons and on your daughters, and thus plunder the Egyptians.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 4 章
4:1 摩西回答说，他们若不信我，也不听我的话，反而说，耶和华并没有向你显现，那怎么办？
Then Moses answered and said, What if they do not believe me or listen to my voice, but say, Jehovah has not appeared to you?
4:2 耶和华对摩西说，在你手里的是什么？他说，是杖。
And Jehovah said to him, What is this in your hand? And he said, A staff.
4:3 耶和华说，把杖丢在地上。他一丢在地上，杖就变作蛇；摩西便跑开。
And He said, Throw it on the ground. And he threw it on the ground, and it became a serpent; and Moses recoiled from it.
4:4 耶和华对摩西说，伸出手来，拿住蛇的尾巴；(于是摩西伸手抓住蛇，蛇就在他手掌中变作杖；)
And Jehovah said to Moses, Stretch out your hand, and take it by its tail-so he stretched out his hand and seized it, and it became a staff in his hand -
4:5 如此好叫他们信耶和华他们祖宗的神，就是亚伯拉罕的神，以撒的神，雅各的神，已经向你显现了。
That they may believe that Jehovah, the God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has appeared to you.
4:6 耶和华又对他说，把手放在怀里。他就把手放在怀里，及至抽出来，不料，手长了痲疯，像雪那样白。
And Jehovah further said to him, Now put your hand into your bosom. And he put his hand into his bosom, and when he took it out, there his hand was, leprous
like snow.
4:7 耶和华说，再把手放在怀里。他就再把手放在怀里，及至从怀里抽出来，不料，手已经复原，像身上别处的肉一样。
And He said, Put your hand into your bosom again-so he put his hand into his bosom again, and when he took it out of his bosom, there it was, restored like the
rest of his flesh -
4:8 又说，倘若他们不信你，也不信头一个神迹，他们必信第二个神迹。
And if they do not believe you or heed the first sign, then they may believe the next sign.
4:9 他们若这两个神迹都不信，也不听你的话，你就从河里取些水，倒在干地上，你从河里取的水必在干地上变作血。
And if they will not believe even these two signs or listen to your voice, then you shall take some of the water of the River and pour it on the dry ground, and the
water that you take out of the River will become blood upon the dry ground.
59
4:10 摩西对耶和华说，主阿，我向来不是能言的人，就是从你对仆人说话以后，还是这样；我本是拙口笨舌的。
And Moses said to Jehovah, Please, Lord, I am not a man of words, neither in the past, nor since You have spoken to Your servant, for I am slow of speech and
slow of tongue.
4:11 耶和华对他说，谁使人有口？谁使人口哑、耳聋、目明、眼瞎？岂不是我耶和华么？
And Jehovah said to him, Who gave man a mouth? Or who makes him dumb or deaf or seeing or blind? Is it not I, Jehovah?
4:12 现在去罢，我必赐你口才，指教你所当说的话。
Now go therefore, and I will be with your mouth and will teach you what you shall speak.
4:13 摩西说，主阿，你愿意差遣谁，就差遣谁罢。
And he said, Please, Lord, send word through someone else whom You will send.
4:14 耶和华向摩西发怒，说，不是有你的哥哥利未人亚伦么？我知道他是能言的；现在他出来迎接你，他一见你，心里就欢喜。
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Moses, and He said, Is there not Aaron your brother the Levite? I know that he can certainly speak. And even now
he is coming out to meet you; and when he sees you, he will be glad in his heart.
4:15 你要对他说话，将当说的传给他；我也要赐你和他口才，又要指教你们所当行的。
And you shall speak to him and put the words in his mouth, and I will be with your mouth and with his mouth, and will teach you what you shall do.
4:16 他要替你对百姓说话；他要作你的口，你要作他的神。
And he shall speak for you to the people, and he shall be as a mouth for you, and you shall be as God to him.
4:17 你手里要拿这杖，好用来行神迹。
And you shall take in your hand this staff, with which you shall perform the signs.
4:18 于是摩西回到他岳父叶忒罗那里，对他说，求你让我去，回到我在埃及的弟兄们那里，看他们还在不在。叶忒罗对摩西说，你平平安安的去罢。
And Moses went back to Jethro his father-in-law. And he said to him, Please let me go and return to my brothers who are in Egypt and see whether they are still
alive. And Jethro said to Moses, Go in peace.
4:19 耶和华在米甸对摩西说，你要回埃及去，因为寻索你命的人都死了。
And Jehovah said to Moses in Midian, Go, return to Egypt; for all the men who were seeking your life have died.
4:20 摩西就带着妻子和两个儿子，使他们骑上驴，回埃及地去。摩西手里拿着神的杖。
So Moses took his wife and his sons, and mounted them upon a donkey, and returned to the land of Egypt. And Moses took the staff of God in his hand.
4:21 耶和华对摩西说，你回埃及去的时候，要留意将我交在你手里的一切奇事，行在法老面前。但我要使他的心刚硬，他必不让百姓去。
And Jehovah said to Moses, When you go to return to Egypt, see that you perform before Pharaoh all the wonders which I have put in your power; but I will
harden his heart, and he will not let the people go.
4:22 你要对法老说，耶和华这样说，以色列是我的儿子，我的长子。
Then you shall say to Pharaoh, Thus says Jehovah, Israel is My son, My firstborn.
4:23 我对你说过，让我的儿子去，他好事奉我；你却不肯让他去。看哪，我要杀你的儿子，你的长子。
And I said to you, Let My son go that he may serve Me; but you have refused to let him go. I will now slay your son, your firstborn.
4:24 摩西在路上住宿的地方，耶和华遇见他，想要杀他。
And at the lodging place on the way, Jehovah came upon him and sought to put him to death.
4:25 西坡拉就拿一块火石，割下他儿子的阳皮，丢在摩西脚前，说，你真是我的血郎了。
Then Zipporah took a flint and cut off her son's foreskin and cast it at Moses' feet, and she said, You are indeed a bridegroom of blood to me!
4:26 这样，耶和华才放了他；那时西坡拉说，你因割礼就是血郎了。
So He let him alone. It was then that she said, A bridegroom of blood, because of the circumcision.
4:27 耶和华对亚伦说，你往旷野去迎接摩西。他就去，在神的山遇见摩西，和他亲嘴。
And Jehovah said to Aaron, Go into the wilderness to meet Moses. And he went and came upon him at the mountain of God, and he kissed him.
4:28 摩西将耶和华差遣他所说的一切话，和嘱咐他所行的一切神迹，都告诉了亚伦。
And Moses told Aaron all the words of Jehovah with which He had sent him and all the signs with which He had charged him.
4:29 摩西、亚伦就去招聚以色列人的众长老。
And Moses and Aaron went and gathered together all the elders of the children of Israel.
4:30 亚伦将耶和华对摩西所说的一切话都述说了，又在百姓眼前行了那些神迹，
And Aaron spoke all the words which Jehovah had spoken to Moses, and he performed the signs in the sight of the people.
4:31 百姓就信了；他们听见耶和华眷顾以色列人，鉴察他们的困苦，就低头敬拜。
And the people believed; and when they heard that Jehovah had visited the children of Israel and that He had seen their affliction, they bowed and worshipped.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 5 章
5:1 后来摩西、亚伦去对法老说，耶和华以色列的神这样说，让我的百姓去，他们好在旷野向我守节。
And afterward Moses and Aaron came and said to Pharaoh, Thus says Jehovah the God of Israel, Let My people go that they may hold a feast to Me in the
wilderness.
5:2 但法老说，耶和华是谁，要我听祂的话，让以色列人去？我不认识耶和华，也不让以色列人去。
But Pharaoh said, Who is Jehovah that I should listen to His voice to let Israel go? I do not know Jehovah, and I also will not let Israel go.
5:3 他们说，希伯来人的神遇见了我们。求你让我们走三天的路程，到旷野里去，我们好献祭给耶和华我们的神，免得祂用瘟疫或刀剑击打我们。
And they said, The God of the Hebrews has met with us. Please let us go a three days' journey into the wilderness that we may sacrifice to Jehovah our God;
otherwise He will fall upon us with pestilence or sword.
5:4 埃及王对他们说，摩西、亚伦，你们为什么叫百姓旷工？你们去担你们的担子罢。
Then the king of Egypt said to them, Moses and Aaron, why are you trying to release the people from their work? Get back to your burdens.
5:5 又说，看哪，这地的百姓如今众多，你们竟叫他们歇下担子。
And Pharaoh said, Look, the people of the land are now many, yet you want them to cease from their burdens.
5:6 当天，法老吩咐百姓的督工和官长说，
And the same day Pharaoh commanded the taskmasters of the people and their officers, saying,
5:7 你们不可照常把草给百姓作砖，叫他们自己去捡草。
60
You shall no longer give the people straw to make bricks as previously; let them go and gather straw for themselves.
5:8 他们素常作砖的数量，你们仍旧向他们要，一点不可减少；因为他们是懒惰的，所以呼求说，让我们去献祭给我们的神。
And the quota of the bricks which they made previously, you shall still place upon them; you shall not diminish any of it, for they are idle; therefore they cry out,
saying, Let us go and sacrifice to our God.
5:9 你们要把更重的工加在这些人身上，叫他们作工，不去注意虚谎的言语。
Let the work be laid more heavily upon such men, so that they do it and not pay attention to false words.
5:10 督工和官长出来对百姓说，法老这样说，我不给你们草。
And the taskmasters of the people and their officers went out and spoke to the people, saying, Thus says Pharaoh, I will not give you straw.
5:11 你们在那里能找到草，就自己往那里去拿罢；但你们的工一点不可减少。
You go and get your own straw wherever you can find it, for none of your work will be reduced.
5:12 于是百姓散在埃及遍地，捡碎秸当草。
So the people scattered throughout all the land of Egypt to gather stubble for straw.
5:13 督工催着说，你们要作完你们的工；每天派给你们的工，与先前有草的时候一样。
And the taskmasters pressed them saying, Finish your work, the same daily assignment as when there was straw.
5:14 法老的督工，责打他们所派管理以色列人的官长，说，你们昨天今天为什么没有照向来所要求的数量作砖，作完你们的工？
And the officers of the children of Israel, whom Pharaoh's taskmasters had set over them, were beaten and told, Why have you not finished, both yesterday and
today, the amount of bricks required of you previously?
5:15 以色列人的官长就来哀求法老说，为什么这样待你的仆人？
Then the officers of the children of Israel came and cried out to Pharaoh, saying, Why do you treat your servants this way?
5:16 督工不把草给仆人，并且对我们说，作砖罢。看哪，你仆人挨了打，其实是你自己百姓的错。
No straw is given to your servants, and they say to us, Make bricks. And now your servants are being beaten, but it is the fault of your own people.
5:17 但法老说，你们是懒惰的，懒惰的！所以你们说，让我们去献祭给耶和华。
But he said, Idle is what you are, idle; therefore you say, Let us go and sacrifice to Jehovah.
5:18 现在你们去作工罢；草是不给你们的，砖却要如数交纳。
So go now and work; and no straw shall be given you, but you shall deliver the quota of bricks.
5:19 以色列人的官长听说，每天派给你们作砖的工一点不可减少，就知道是遭遇祸患了。
And the officers of the children of Israel saw that they were in trouble, when it was said, You shall not diminish any of the daily assignment of your bricks.
5:20 他们离了法老出来，正遇见摩西、亚伦站在对面，
And they came upon Moses and Aaron who were standing there to meet them when they came forth from Pharaoh.
5:21 就对他们说，愿耶和华鉴察你们，施行判断；因你们使我们在法老和他臣仆眼前成了可憎厌的，把刀递在他们手中来杀我们。
And they said to them, Jehovah look upon you and judge, because you have made us odious in the sight of Pharaoh and in the sight of his servants so as to put
a sword in their hand to kill us.
5:22 摩西回到耶和华那里，说，主阿，你为什么苦待这百姓？为什么差遣我去呢？
Then Moses went back to Jehovah and said, Lord, why have You mistreated this people? Why is it that You sent me?
5:23 自从我去见法老，在你的名里说话，他就苦待这百姓，你一点也没有拯救你的百姓。
Ever since I came to Pharaoh to speak in Your name, he has mistreated this people, and You have not delivered Your people at all.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 6 章
6:1 耶和华对摩西说，现在你必看见我向法老所要行的事；他必因我大能的手，让以色列人去，并因我大能的手，把他们赶出他的地。
And Jehovah said to Moses, Now you will see what I will do to Pharaoh; for because of a mighty hand he will let them go, and because of a mighty hand he will
drive them out of his land.
6:2 神告诉摩西说，我是耶和华。
And God spoke to Moses and said to him, I am Jehovah.
6:3 从前我向亚伯拉罕、以撒、雅各显现为全足的神；但我未曾以我的名耶和华使他们认识我自己。
And I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob as the All-sufficient God; but by My name Jehovah I did not make Myself known to them.
6:4 我与他们坚定所立的约，要把迦南地，就是他们寄居的地，赐给他们。
And I also established My covenant with them, to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their sojournings, in which they sojourned.
6:5 我也听见以色列人被埃及人奴役所发的哀叹，我也记念我的约。
And I have also heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians have enslaved; and I have remembered My covenant.
6:6 所以你要对以色列人说，我是耶和华；我要把你们从埃及人所加的重担下领出来，我要拯救你们脱离他们的奴役；我要用伸出来的膀臂，并用极重的
刑罚，救赎你们。
Therefore say to the children of Israel, I am Jehovah, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will deliver you from their bondage,
and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with great acts of judgment.
6:7 我要取你们归我作我的百姓，我也要作你们的神。你们要知道我是耶和华你们的神，是把你们从埃及人所加的重担下领出来的。
And I will take you to Myself as My people, and I will be your God; and you shall know that I am Jehovah your God, the One who brought you out from under the
burdens of the Egyptians.
6:8 我要把你们领到我起誓要赐给亚伯拉罕、以撒、雅各的那地，将那地赐给你们为业。我是耶和华。
And I will bring you to the land which I swore to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; and I will give it to you as a possession. I am Jehovah.
6:9 摩西将这话告诉以色列人，只是他们因灵里愁烦和苦工的缘故，不听他的话。
And Moses spoke this to the children of Israel, but they did not listen to Moses on account of exasperation of spirit and harsh bondage.
6:10 耶和华告诉摩西说，
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
6:11 你去对埃及王法老说，要让以色列人从他的地出去。
Go, speak to Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel go out of his land.
6:12 摩西在耶和华面前说，以色列人尚且不听我，法老怎肯听我这拙口笨舌的人呢？
61
And Moses spoke before Jehovah, saying, The children of Israel do not now listen to me. How then will Pharaoh listen to me, since I am of uncircumcised lips?
6:13 耶和华吩咐摩西、亚伦往以色列人和埃及王法老那里去，把以色列人从埃及地领出来。
And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron and gave them a charge for the children of Israel and for Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out
of the land of Egypt.
6:14 他们宗族首领的名字记在下面。以色列长子流便的儿子是哈诺、法路、希斯仑、迦米；这些是流便的家族。
These are the heads of their fathers' houses. The sons of Reuben, the firstborn of Israel: Hanoch and Pallu, Hezron and Carmi; these are the families of Reuben.
6:15 西缅的儿子是耶母利、雅悯、阿辖、雅斤、琐辖，和迦南女子的儿子扫罗；这些是西缅的家族。
And the sons of Simeon: Jemuel and Jamin and Ohad and Jachin and Zohar and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman; these are the families of Simeon.
6:16 利未众子的名字，按着他们的后代记在下面，就是革顺、哥辖、米拉利。利未一生的岁数是一百三十七岁。
And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations: Gershon and Kohath and Merari; and the years of Levi's life were one hundred thirty-
seven years.
6:17 革顺的儿子按着家族，是立尼、示每。
The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei, according to their families.
6:18 哥辖的儿子是暗兰、以斯哈、希伯伦、乌薛。哥辖一生的岁数是一百三十三岁。
And the sons of Kohath: Amram and Izhar and Hebron and Uzziel; and the years of Kohath's life were one hundred thirty-three years.
6:19 米拉利的儿子是抹利和母示；这些是利未的家族，都按着他们的后代。
And the sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their generations.
6:20 暗兰娶了他父亲的妹妹约基别为妻，她给他生了亚伦和摩西。暗兰一生的岁数是一百三十七岁。
And Amram took Jochebed his father's sister for himself as wife, and she bore him Aaron and Moses; and the years of Amram's life were one hundred thirty-
seven years.
6:21 以斯哈的儿子是可拉、尼斐、细基利。
And the sons of Izhar: Korah and Nepheg and Zichri.
6:22 乌薛的儿子是米沙利、以利撒反、西提利。
And the sons of Uzziel: Mishael and Elzaphan and Sithri.
6:23 亚伦娶了亚米拿达的女儿，拿顺的妹妹，以利沙巴为妻，她给他生了拿答、亚比户、以利亚撒、以他玛。
And Aaron took Elisheba, the daughter of Amminadab, the sister of Nahshon, for himself as wife; and she bore him Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
6:24 可拉的儿子是亚惜、以利加拿、亚比亚撒；这些是可拉的家族。
And the sons of Korah: Assir and Elkanah and Abiasaph; these are the families of the Korahites.
6:25 亚伦的儿子以利亚撒娶了普铁的一个女儿为妻，她给他生了非尼哈。这些是利未人宗族的首领，都按着他们的家族。
And Eleazar, Aaron's son, took for himself one of the daughters of Putiel as wife, and she bore him Phinehas. These are the heads of the fathers' houses of the
Levites according to their families.
6:26 这亚伦和摩西，耶和华曾对他们说，要将以色列人按着他们的军队，从埃及地领出来。
It was this same Aaron and Moses to whom Jehovah said, Bring out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their armies.
6:27 那对埃及王法老说要将以色列人从埃及领出来的，就是这摩西和亚伦。
It was they who spoke to Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, to bring out the children of Israel from Egypt; it is the same Moses and Aaron.
6:28 当耶和华在埃及地对摩西说话的日子，
And on the day when Jehovah spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt,
6:29 祂向摩西说，我是耶和华；我对你说的一切话，你都要告诉埃及王法老。
Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, I am Jehovah; speak to Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, all that I speak to you.
6:30 但摩西在耶和华面前说，看哪，我是拙口笨舌的人，法老怎肯听我呢？
But Moses said before Jehovah, Behold, I am of uncircumcised lips. How then will Pharaoh listen to me?
出埃及记 Exodus 第 7 章
7:1 耶和华对摩西说，你看，我使你在法老面前作神；你的哥哥亚伦要作你的申言者。
And Jehovah said to Moses, See, I have made you God to Pharaoh; and Aaron your brother will be your prophet.
7:2 凡我所吩咐你的，你都要说；你的哥哥亚伦要告诉法老，叫他让以色列人出他的地。
You shall speak all that I command you, and Aaron your brother shall speak to Pharaoh, that he let the children of Israel go out of his land.
7:3 我要使法老的心刚硬，也要在埃及地使我的神迹与奇事增多。
And I will harden Pharaoh's heart and will multiply My signs and My wonders in the land of Egypt.
7:4 但法老必不听你们；我要下手击打埃及，借着极重的刑罚，将我的军队，我的百姓以色列人，从埃及地领出来。
But Pharaoh will not listen to you, and I will lay My hand upon Egypt and bring forth My armies, My people the children of Israel, out of the land of Egypt by great
acts of judgment.
7:5 我伸手攻击埃及，将以色列人从他们中间领出来的时候，埃及人就知道我是耶和华。
And the Egyptians will know that I am Jehovah, when I stretch forth My hand upon Egypt and bring out the children of Israel from among them.
7:6 摩西、亚伦就这样行；耶和华怎样吩咐他们，他们就照样行。
And Moses and Aaron did so; as Jehovah commanded them, so did they do.
7:7 摩西、亚伦与法老说话的时候，摩西年八十岁，亚伦年八十三岁。
And Moses was eighty years old and Aaron eighty-three years old when they spoke to Pharaoh.
7:8 耶和华告诉摩西、亚伦说，
And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
7:9 法老若对你们说，你们行件奇事罢；你就要对亚伦说，拿你的杖丢在法老面前，使杖变作蛇。
When Pharaoh speaks to you, saying, Perform a wonder; then you shall say to Aaron, Take your staff, and throw it down before Pharaoh, so that it becomes a
serpent.
7:10 摩西、亚伦去见法老，就照耶和华所吩咐的行；亚伦把杖丢在法老和他臣仆面前，杖就变作蛇。
62
And Moses and Aaron came to Pharaoh, and they did just as Jehovah had commanded; and Aaron threw down his staff before Pharaoh and before his servants,
and it became a serpent.
7:11 于是法老也召了智慧人和行邪术的来；他们是埃及行法术的，也用秘咒照样而行。
Then Pharaoh also called for the wise men and the sorcerers; and they also, the magicians of Egypt, did the same with their secret spells.
7:12 他们各人丢下自己的杖，杖就变作蛇；但亚伦的杖吞了他们的杖。
That is, each one threw down his staff, and they became serpents. But Aaron's staff swallowed up their staffs.
7:13 法老心里刚硬，不肯听摩西、亚伦，正如耶和华所说的。
And Pharaoh's heart hardened, and he did not listen to them, just as Jehovah had said.
7:14 耶和华对摩西说，法老心里顽梗，不肯让百姓去。
Then Jehovah said to Moses, Pharaoh's heart is stubborn; he refuses to let the people go.
7:15 明日早晨，他出来往水边去的时候，你要去，站在河岸上迎见他，手里拿着那变过蛇的杖，
Go to Pharaoh in the morning as he is going out to the water, and stand on the bank of the River to meet him. And you shall take in your hand the staff which
was turned into a serpent.
7:16 对他说，耶和华希伯来人的神差我来见你，说，让我的百姓去，他们好在旷野事奉我，但到如今你还是不听。
And you shall say to him, Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, has sent me to you, saying, Let My people go that they may serve Me in the wilderness. But until this
very moment you have not listened.
7:17 耶和华这样说，我要用我手里的杖击打河中的水，水就变作血；藉此你就知道我是耶和华。
Thus says Jehovah, By this you will know that I am Jehovah. I am now going to strike the water which is in the River with the staff that is in my hand, and it will be
turned to blood.
7:18 河里的鱼必死，河也要发臭，埃及人就要厌恶喝这河里的水。
And the fish that are in the River will die, and the River will become foul, and the Egyptians will loathe drinking water from the River.
7:19 耶和华告诉摩西说，你要对亚伦说，拿你的杖，伸手在埃及的诸水以上，就是在他们的江、河、池、塘以上，叫水都变作血；在埃及遍地，甚至在木
器、石器中，都必有血。
And Jehovah said to Moses, Say to Aaron, Take your staff, and stretch out your hand over the waters of Egypt, over their rivers, over their watercourses, and over
their pools, and over all their reservoirs of water, that they may become blood; and there shall be blood throughout all the land of Egypt, even in vessels of wood
and in vessels of stone.
7:20 摩西、亚伦就照耶和华所吩咐的行；亚伦在法老和他臣仆眼前举杖击打河里的水，河里的水就都变作血。
And Moses and Aaron did just as Jehovah commanded; and he lifted up the staff and struck the water that was in the River in the sight of Pharaoh and in the
sight of his servants, and all the water that was in the River was turned to blood.
7:21 河里的鱼死了，河也发臭了，埃及人就不能喝这河里的水；埃及遍地都有了血。
And the fish that were in the River died, and the River became foul, and the Egyptians could not drink water from the River; and the blood was throughout all the
land of Egypt.
7:22 埃及行法术的，也用秘咒照样而行。法老心里刚硬，不肯听摩西、亚伦，正如耶和华所说的。
And the magicians of Egypt did the same with their secret spells; and Pharaoh's heart hardened, and he did not listen to them, just as Jehovah had said.
7:23 法老转身进宫，也不把这事放在心上。
And Pharaoh turned and went into his house, and he did not take even this to heart.
7:24 埃及人都在河的两边挖地，要得水喝，因为他们不能喝这河里的水。
And all the Egyptians dug around the River for water to drink, for they could not drink of the water of the River.
7:25 耶和华击打河以后，满了七天。
And seven days passed after Jehovah had struck the River.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 8 章
8:1 耶和华告诉摩西说，你去见法老，对他说，耶和华这样说，让我的百姓去，他们好事奉我。
Then Jehovah said to Moses, Go to Pharaoh, and say to him, Thus says Jehovah, Let My people go that they may serve Me.
8:2 你若不肯让他们去，我必使青蛙蹧蹋你的四境。
But if you refuse to let them go, I am now going to smite all your territory with frogs.
8:3 河里要滋生青蛙；青蛙要上来进你的宫殿和你的卧房，上你的床榻，进你臣仆的房屋，上你百姓的身上，进你的炉灶和你的抟面盆，
And the River shall swarm with frogs, and they will go up from the river and come into your house and into your bedchamber and upon your bed, and into the
houses of your servants and upon your people, and into your ovens and into your kneading bowls.
8:4 又要上你和你百姓并你众臣仆的身上。
And the frogs shall come up upon you and upon your people and upon all your servants.
8:5 耶和华告诉摩西说，你要对亚伦说，把你手中的杖伸在江、河、池以上，使青蛙上到埃及地来。
And Jehovah said to Moses, Say to Aaron, Stretch out your hand with your staff over the rivers, over the watercourses, and over the pools, and make frogs come
up on the land of Egypt.
8:6 亚伦便伸手在埃及的诸水以上，青蛙就上来，遮满了埃及地。
So Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt, and the frogs came up and covered the land of Egypt.
8:7 行法术的也用他们的秘咒照样而行，叫青蛙上了埃及地。
And the magicians did the same with their secret spells and brought up frogs on the land of Egypt.
8:8 法老召了摩西、亚伦来，说，你们祈求耶和华使青蛙离开我和我的民，我就让百姓去献祭给耶和华。
Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron and said, Entreat Jehovah to take away the frogs from me and from my people, and I will let the people go to sacrifice
to Jehovah.
8:9 摩西对法老说，请你指示我，要何时为你和你的臣仆并你的百姓祈求，使青蛙从你和你的宫殿除灭，只留在河里？
And Moses said to Pharaoh, May it please you, and not me, as to the time. When shall I make entreaty for you and for your servants and for your people, to cut
off the frogs from you and from your houses so that they remain in the River only?
8:10 他说，明天。摩西说，就照你的话罢，好叫你知道没有像耶和华我们神的。
63
And he said, Tomorrow. And he said, It will be according to your word, that you may know that there is no one like Jehovah our God.
8:11 青蛙要离开你和你的宫殿，并你的臣仆与你的百姓，只留在河里。
And the frogs shall depart from you and from your houses and from your servants and from your people; they shall remain in the River only.
8:12 于是摩西、亚伦离开法老出去。摩西为耶和华加在法老身上青蛙的灾害呼求耶和华。
Then Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh, and Moses cried out to Jehovah concerning the frogs which He had brought upon Pharaoh.
8:13 耶和华就照摩西的话行；凡在房里、院中、田间的青蛙都死了。
And Jehovah did according to the word of Moses, and the frogs died in the houses, in the courts, and in the fields.
8:14 众人把青蛙聚拢成堆，遍地都发臭了。
And they gathered them together, heap after heap, and the land stank.
8:15 但法老见灾祸松缓，就硬着心，不听他们，正如耶和华所说的。
But when Pharaoh saw that there was respite, he hardened his heart and did not listen to them, just as Jehovah had said.
8:16 耶和华告诉摩西说，你要对亚伦说，伸出你的杖击打地上的尘土，使尘土在埃及遍地变作虱子；
And Jehovah said to Moses, Say to Aaron, Stretch out your staff, and strike the dust of the earth, that it may become lice throughout all the land of Egypt.
8:17 他们就这样行。亚伦伸出手中的杖击打地上的尘土，在人身上和牲畜身上就有了虱子；埃及遍地的尘土都变成虱子了。
And they did so; and Aaron stretched out his hand with his staff and struck the dust of the earth, and there were lice on man and on beast; all the dust of the
earth became lice throughout all the land of Egypt.
8:18 行法术的也用秘咒这样行，要生出虱子来，却是不能。于是在人身上和牲畜身上都有了虱子。
And the magicians did the same with their secret spells, to try to bring forth lice, but they could not; so there were lice on man and on beast.
8:19 行法术的就对法老说，这是神的手指所作的。但法老心里刚硬，不听摩西、亚伦，正如耶和华所说的。
Then the magicians said to Pharaoh, This is the finger of God. But Pharaoh's heart hardened, and he did not listen to them, just as Jehovah had said.
8:20 耶和华对摩西说，你清早起来，当法老出来往水边去的时候，你要站在他面前，对他说，耶和华这样说，让我的百姓去，他们好事奉我。
Then Jehovah said to Moses, Rise up early in the morning, and present yourself before Pharaoh as he is going out to the water, and say to him, Thus says
Jehovah, Let My people go that they may serve Me.
8:21 你若不让我的百姓去，我即刻打发成群的苍蝇到你和你臣仆、你百姓的身上，并且进你的宫殿；埃及人的房屋和他们所在的地，都要满了成群的苍蝇。
For if you will not let My people go, then I will at once send swarms of flies against you and against your servants and against your people and against your
houses; and the houses of the Egyptians will be full of swarms of flies, as well as the ground on which they are.
8:22 当那日，我必分别我百姓所住的歌珊地，使那里没有成群的苍蝇，好叫你知道在全地中我是耶和华。
But on that day I will set apart the land of Goshen, where My people are staying, so that no swarms of flies will be there, so that you may know that I am Jehovah
in the midst of the land.
8:23 我要将救赎放在我的百姓和你的百姓之间；明天必有这神迹。
And I will put redemption between My people and your people. Tomorrow this sign shall occur.
8:24 耶和华就这样行；大群苍蝇进入法老的宫殿，和他臣仆的房屋；埃及遍地就因成群的苍蝇败坏了。
And Jehovah did so; and heavy swarms of flies came into the house of Pharaoh and into his servants' houses, and throughout the land of Egypt the land was
ruined because of the swarms of flies.
8:25 法老召了摩西、亚伦来，说，你们去，在这地献祭给你们的神罢！
And Pharaoh called for Moses and for Aaron and said, Go, sacrifice to your God in the land.
8:26 摩西说，这样行本不相宜，因为我们要把埃及人所憎恶的，献给耶和华我们的神为祭；若把埃及人所憎恶的在他们眼前献为祭，他们岂不拿石头打死
我们么？
And Moses said, It would not be right to do so, for we will sacrifice to Jehovah our God what is an abomination to the Egyptians. If we sacrifice what is an
abomination to the Egyptians before their eyes, will they not stone us?
8:27 我们要走三天的路程，到旷野里去，照着耶和华我们神所要吩咐我们的，献祭给祂。
We must go a three days' journey into the wilderness and sacrifice to Jehovah our God just as He commands us.
8:28 法老说，我让你们去，在旷野献祭给耶和华你们的神，只是不要走得很远；你们要为我祈求。
And Pharaoh said, I will let you go that you may sacrifice to Jehovah your God in the wilderness; only you shall not go very far away. Make entreaty for me.
8:29 摩西说，我现在从你这里出去；我要祈求耶和华，使成群的苍蝇明天离开法老、和他的臣仆、并他的百姓；只是法老不可再行诡诈，不让百姓去献祭
给耶和华。
And Moses said, I am now going out from you, and I will entreat Jehovah that the swarms of flies would depart from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his
people tomorrow; only do not let Pharaoh deal deceitfully anymore by not letting the people go to sacrifice to Jehovah.
8:30 于是摩西离开法老出去，向耶和华祈求。
So Moses went out from Pharaoh and entreated Jehovah.
8:31 耶和华就照摩西的话行，叫成群的苍蝇离开法老、和他的臣仆、并他的百姓，一只也没有留下。
And Jehovah did according to the word of Moses, and He removed the swarms of flies from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people; not one remained.
8:32 然而这一次法老还是硬着心，不让百姓去。
However Pharaoh hardened his heart at this time also, and he did not let the people go.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 9 章
9:1 耶和华对摩西说，你去见法老，对他说，耶和华希伯来人的神这样说，让我的百姓去，他们好事奉我。
Then Jehovah said to Moses, Go to Pharaoh, and speak to him, Thus says Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, Let My people go that they may serve Me.
9:2 你若不肯让他们去，仍旧强留他们，
For if you refuse to let them go and still retain them,
9:3 耶和华的手要加在你田间的牲畜上，就是在马、驴、骆驼、牛群、羊群上，必有极重的瘟疫。
Then the hand of Jehovah is going to be on your livestock which are in the field, on the horses, on the donkeys, on the camels, on the herds, and on the flocks
with a very severe pestilence.
9:4 耶和华要分别以色列的牲畜和埃及的牲畜，凡属以色列人的，一样都不死。
And Jehovah will make a distinction between the livestock of Israel and the livestock of Egypt, so that nothing will die of all that belongs to the children of Israel.
64
9:5 耶和华就定了时候，说，明天耶和华必在此地行这事。
And Jehovah set an appointed time, saying, Tomorrow Jehovah will do this thing in the land.
9:6 第二天，耶和华就行这事；埃及的牲畜几乎都死了，只是以色列人的牲畜，一只也没有死。
And Jehovah did this thing on the next day; and all the livestock of Egypt died, but of the livestock of the children of Israel not one died.
9:7 法老打发人去看，谁知以色列人的牲畜连一只都没有死。法老的心却是顽梗，不让百姓去。
And Pharaoh sent to inquire, and indeed there was not so much as one of the livestock of the Israelites dead. But the heart of Pharaoh was stubborn, and he did
not let the people go.
9:8 耶和华对摩西、亚伦说，你们取几捧炉灰，摩西要在法老眼前向天扬起来。
Then Jehovah said to Moses and to Aaron, Take handfuls of ashes from a furnace, and let Moses sprinkle it toward heaven in the sight of Pharaoh.
9:9 这灰要在埃及全地变作细尘，在埃及遍地的人身上和牲畜身上，成为起泡的疮。
And it will become fine dust over all the land of Egypt, and will become boils breaking out with sores on man and on beast throughout all the land of Egypt.
9:10 于是摩西、亚伦取了炉灰，站在法老面前；摩西向天扬起来，炉灰就在人身上和牲畜身上，成了起泡的疮。
So they took ashes from the furnace and stood before Pharaoh; and Moses sprinkled it toward heaven, and it became boils breaking forth with sores on man
and on beast.
9:11 行法术的在摩西面前站立不住，因为在他们身上，和一切埃及人身上，都有这疮。
And the magicians could not stand before Moses because of the boils, for the boils were on the magicians as well as on all the Egyptians.
9:12 耶和华使法老的心刚硬，不听摩西、亚伦，正如耶和华对摩西所说的。
And Jehovah hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he did not listen to them, just as Jehovah had spoken to Moses.
9:13 耶和华对摩西说，你清早起来，站在法老面前，对他说，耶和华希伯来人的神这样说，让我的百姓去，他们好事奉我。
Then Jehovah said to Moses, Rise up early in the morning, and present yourself before Pharaoh, and say to him, Thus says Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, Let
My people go that they may serve Me.
9:14 因为这一次，我要叫一切的灾殃临到你和你臣仆，并你百姓的身上，叫你知道在全地没有像我的。
For this time I am going to send all My plagues against you and on your servants and on your people, so that you may know that there is no one like Me in all the
earth.
9:15 我现在若伸手用瘟疫击打你和你的百姓，你就从地上除灭了。
For if by now I had stretched out My hand and struck you and your people with pestilence, you would have been cut off from the earth.
9:16 其实，我叫你存立，是特为向你显示我的权能，并要使我的名传遍全地。
But indeed for this cause I have made you stand, to show you My power and to have My name proclaimed throughout all the earth.
9:17 你还向我的百姓自高，不让他们去；
You are still exalting yourself against My people by not letting them go.
9:18 到明天约在这时候，我必叫极重的冰雹降下，自从埃及立国以来，没有这样的冰雹。
Tomorrow about this time I am going to cause very heavy hail to fall, such as has never occurred in Egypt since the day it was founded even until now.
9:19 现在你要打发人把你的牲畜，和你田间一切所有的，赶到安妥的地方；凡在田间不带回家的，无论是人是牲畜，冰雹降在他们身上，他们就必死。
Now therefore send men and secure your livestock and all that you have in the field; every man and beast that is found in the field and is not brought home when
the hail comes down shall die.
9:20 法老的臣仆中，惧怕耶和华这话的，便叫他的奴仆和牲畜逃进屋里。
He who feared the word of Jehovah among the servants of Pharaoh made his servants and his livestock flee into the houses.
9:21 但那不把耶和华这话放在心上的，就将他的奴仆和牲畜留在田间。
But he who did not pay attention to the word of Jehovah left his servants and his livestock in the field.
9:22 耶和华对摩西说，你向天伸手，使埃及遍地都有冰雹，下在人身上和牲畜身上，并田间各样菜蔬上。
And Jehovah said to Moses, Stretch out your hand toward heaven that there may be hail throughout all the land of Egypt, upon man and upon beast and upon
all the vegetation of the field in the land of Egypt.
9:23 摩西向天伸杖，耶和华就打雷下雹，有火闪到地上；耶和华下雹在埃及地上。
And Moses stretched out his staff toward heaven; and Jehovah sent thunder and hail, and fire came down on the earth, and Jehovah rained hail upon the land
of Egypt.
9:24 那时有极重的冰雹，其中有火不断的闪烁，自从埃及成国以来，埃及遍地没有这样的。
So there was very heavy hail with fire flashing continually in the midst of the hail, such as had not occurred in all the land of Egypt since it became a nation.
9:25 在埃及遍地，冰雹击打了田间所有的人和牲畜，并一切的菜蔬，又打坏了田间一切的树木。
And the hail struck everything that was in the field, both man and beast, throughout all the land of Egypt; and the hail struck all the vegetation of the field and
shattered every tree of the field.
9:26 惟独以色列人所在的歌珊地，没有冰雹。
Only in the land of Goshen, where the children of Israel were, was there no hail.
9:27 法老打发人召摩西、亚伦来，对他们说，这一次我犯了罪了。耶和华是义的，我和我的百姓是恶的。
And Pharaoh sent a messenger and called for Moses and Aaron; and he said to them, I have sinned this time; Jehovah is the righteous One, and I and my
people are in the wrong.
9:28 你们要祈求耶和华，因为神的雷轰和冰雹已经够了；我必让你们去，你们不必再留了。
Entreat Jehovah, for there has been enough of God's thunder and hail; and I will let you go, and you shall stay no longer.
9:29 摩西对他说，我一出城，就要向耶和华伸开双手祷告；雷必止住，也不再有冰雹，叫你知道全地都是耶和华的。
And Moses said to him, As soon as I have gone out of the city, I will spread out my hands to Jehovah; the thunder will cease, and there will not be any more hail,
that you may know that the earth is Jehovah's.
9:30 至于你和你的臣仆，我知道你们还是不惧怕耶和华神。
But as for you and your servants, I know that you do not yet fear Jehovah God.
9:31 那时，麻和大麦被雹打坏；因为大麦已经吐穗，麻也开了花。
(Now the flax and the barley were ruined, for the barley was in the ear, and the flax was in bud.
9:32 只是小麦和粗麦没有被打坏，因为还没有长成。
But the wheat and the spelt were not ruined, for they had not come up.)
65
9:33 摩西离了法老出城，向耶和华伸开双手祷告；雷和雹就止住，雨也不再浇在地上了。
And Moses went out of the city from Pharaoh and spread out his hands to Jehovah; and the thunder and hail ceased, and the rain no longer poured down on the
earth.
9:34 法老见雨、雹和雷止住，就又犯罪，并且硬着心，他和他的臣仆都是如此。
But when Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thunder had ceased, he sinned again and hardened his heart, he and his servants.
9:35 法老的心刚硬，不让以色列人去，正如耶和华借着摩西所说的。
So Pharaoh's heart hardened, and he did not let the children of Israel go, just as Jehovah had spoken through Moses.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 10 章
10:1 耶和华对摩西说，你去见法老；我使他和他臣仆的心刚硬，为要在他们中间显我这些神迹，
Then Jehovah said to Moses, Go to Pharaoh, for I have hardened his heart and the heart of his servants that I may show these signs of Mine in the midst of them,
10:2 并要叫你将我向埃及人所作的事，和在他们中间所行的神迹，述说于你儿子和你孙子的耳中，好叫你们知道我是耶和华。
And that you may recount in the hearing of your son and your grandson how I made a mockery of Egypt and My signs which I have done among them, that you
may know that I am Jehovah.
10:3 摩西、亚伦就去见法老，对他说，耶和华希伯来人的神这样说，你在我面前不肯自卑要到几时呢？让我的百姓去，他们好事奉我。
And Moses and Aaron came to Pharaoh and said to him, Thus says Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, How long will you refuse to humble yourself before Me?
Let My people go that they may serve Me.
10:4 你若不肯让我的百姓去，明天我要使蝗虫进入你的境内，
For if you refuse to let My people go, then tomorrow I am going to bring swarming locusts into your territory,
10:5 遮满地面，甚至人看不见地；蝗虫要吃那避过雹灾所剩留的，也要吃田间所长的一切树木。
And they will cover the surface of the land, so that no one will be able to see the land; and they will eat the rest of what has escaped-what is left to you from the
hail-and will eat up every tree of yours that is sprouting in the field.
10:6 你的宫殿和你众臣仆的房屋，并一切埃及人的房屋，都要被蝗虫占满了；自从你祖宗和你祖宗的祖宗在世以来，直到今日，没有见过这样的灾。摩西
就转身离开法老出去。
And your houses will be filled with them, as well as the houses of all your servants and the houses of all the Egyptians; something that neither your fathers nor
your fathers' fathers have seen since the day that they came upon the earth until this day. Then he turned and went out from Pharaoh.
10:7 法老的臣仆对法老说，这人作我们的网罗要到几时呢？让这些人去事奉耶和华他们的神罢。埃及已经败坏了，你还不知道么？
And Pharaoh's servants said to him, How long shall this man be a snare to us? Let the men go that they may serve Jehovah their God. Do you not yet realize that
Egypt is destroyed?
10:8 于是摩西、亚伦被带回来见法老；法老对他们说，你们去事奉耶和华你们的神罢；但那些要去的究竟是谁？
So Moses and Aaron were brought back to Pharaoh, and he said to them, Go, serve Jehovah your God. But who exactly are going?
10:9 摩西说，我们要和我们少的老的、儿子女儿同去，且把羊群牛群一同带去，因为我们务要守耶和华的节。
And Moses said, We will go with our young and with our old; we will go with our sons and with our daughters, with our flocks and with our herds, for we must
hold Jehovah's feast.
10:10 法老对他们说，我若让你们和你们的妇人孩子去，就让耶和华与你们同在罢。看哪，你们是存着恶意的。
And he said to them, Let Jehovah indeed be with you if I ever let you go with your little ones as well. See here, you are up to some evil.
10:11 不可都去！你们壮年人去事奉耶和华罢，因为这是你们所求的。于是把他们从法老面前撵出去。
No! Go now, but the men only, and serve Jehovah, since that is what you are requesting. And they were driven out from Pharaoh's presence.
10:12 耶和华对摩西说，你向埃及地伸手，使蝗虫到埃及地上来，吃尽地上一切的菜蔬，就是雹灾所剩的。
Then Jehovah said to Moses, Stretch out your hand over the land of Egypt for the swarming locusts, that they may come up upon the land of Egypt and eat all the
vegetation of the land, all that the hail has left.
10:13 摩西就向埃及地伸杖，那一昼一夜，耶和华使东风刮在那地上；到了早晨，东风把蝗虫刮了来。
So Moses stretched forth his staff over the land of Egypt, and Jehovah drove an east wind upon the land all that day and all night; when it was morning, the east
wind had brought the swarming locusts.
10:14 蝗虫上到埃及全地，落在埃及的四境，甚是众多；以前从来没有过这么多的，以后也必没有。
And the swarming locusts went up over all the land of Egypt and settled in all the territory of Egypt in great mass. Before them there had never been so many
swarming locusts as they, nor after them will there ever be so many.
10:15 蝗虫遮满全地面，甚至地都黑暗了；它们吃尽雹灾所剩地上一切的菜蔬，和树上一切的果子。埃及遍地，无论是树木，是田间的菜蔬，连一点青的
也没有留下。
And they covered the surface of the whole land, so that the land was darkened. And they ate all the vegetation of the land and all the fruit of the trees which the
hail had left, and nothing green remained on the trees or among the vegetation of the field throughout all the land of Egypt.
10:16 于是法老急忙召了摩西、亚伦来，说，我得罪了耶和华你们的神，又得罪了你们。
Then Pharaoh hurriedly called for Moses and Aaron and said, I have sinned against Jehovah your God and against you.
10:17 现在请你，只这一次，饶恕我的罪，并且祈求耶和华你们的神，使我脱离这一次的死亡。
Now therefore, please forgive my sin just this once, and entreat Jehovah your God that He would only remove this death from me.
10:18 摩西就离开法老出去，向耶和华祈求。
And he went out from Pharaoh and entreated Jehovah.
10:19 耶和华将东风转成极大的西风，把蝗虫刮起，吹入红海；在埃及的四境连一只也没有留下。
And Jehovah changed the wind into a very strong west wind, and it took up the swarming locusts and drove them into the Red Sea; not one locust was left in all
the territory of Egypt.
10:20 但耶和华使法老的心刚硬，不让以色列人去。
But Jehovah hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he did not let the children of Israel go.
10:21 耶和华对摩西说，你向天伸手，使埃及地黑暗；这黑暗似乎摸得着。
Then Jehovah said to Moses, Stretch out your hand toward heaven that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, even a darkness that can be felt.
10:22 摩西向天伸手，埃及遍地就漆黑了三天。
66
So Moses stretched out his hand toward heaven, and there was thick darkness throughout all the land of Egypt for three days.
10:23 三天之久，人彼此不能看见，也没有人起来离开本处；惟有以色列人的住处都有亮光。
They could not see one another, nor did anyone rise up from his place for three days, but all the children of Israel had light in their dwellings.
10:24 法老就召摩西来，说，你们去事奉耶和华罢；只是你们的羊群牛群要留下，你们的妇人孩子可以和你们同去。
And Pharaoh called Moses and said, Go, serve Jehovah; only let your flocks and your herds be detained. Your little ones may also go with you.
10:25 摩西说，你也得使我们有祭物和燔祭牲，我们好献祭给耶和华我们的神。
And Moses said, You must also let us have sacrifices and burnt offerings so that we may sacrifice to Jehovah our God.
10:26 所以我们的牲畜也必须带去，连一蹄也不留下；因为我们必须从其中取出一些来，事奉耶和华我们的神。我们未到那里，还不知道要用什么事奉耶
和华。
So our cattle also must go with us; not a hoof must be left behind, for we must take some of them to serve Jehovah our God, and we do not know with what we
must serve Jehovah until we go there.
10:27 但耶和华使法老的心刚硬，不愿让他们去。
But Jehovah hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he was not willing to let them go.
10:28 法老对摩西说，你离开我去罢，你要当心，不要再见我的面；因为你见我面的那日，你就必死！
And Pharaoh said to him, Get away from me. Be sure that you do not see my face again, for on the day you see my face you shall die.
10:29 摩西说，你说得对，我必不再见你的面了。
And Moses said, You have spoken correctly. I will never again see your face.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 11 章
11:1 耶和华对摩西说，我要再使一样灾殃临到法老和埃及，然后他必让你们离开这里。他让你们去的时候，必要将你们都从这里催赶出去。
Then Jehovah said to Moses, One more plague will I bring upon Pharaoh and upon Egypt; after that he will let you go from here. When he lets you go, he will
surely drive you out from here completely.
11:2 你要传于百姓的耳中，叫他们男女各人向邻舍要银器金器。
Speak now in the hearing of the people that each man is to ask of his neighbor and each woman of her neighbor for articles of silver and articles of gold.
11:3 耶和华叫百姓在埃及人眼前蒙恩，并且摩西这人在埃及地，在法老臣仆和百姓的眼中看为极大。
And Jehovah gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. Moreover the man Moses was very great in the land of Egypt, in the sight of Pharaoh's servants
and in the sight of the people.
11:4 摩西说，耶和华这样说，约到半夜，我必出去，进到埃及境内。
And Moses said, Thus says Jehovah, About midnight I will go out into the midst of Egypt,
11:5 凡在埃及地头生的，从坐宝座的法老直到推磨的婢女所生的长子，以及一切头生的牲畜，都必死。
And all the firstborn in the land of Egypt shall die, from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sits upon his throne to the firstborn of the female slave who is behind the
millstones, and all the firstborn of cattle.
11:6 埃及遍地必有大哀号；从前没有这样的，后来也必不再有。
And there shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt, such as has not been or ever will be again.
11:7 至于以色列人中，无论是人是牲畜，连狗也不敢向他们摇舌，好叫你们知道，耶和华是将埃及人和以色列人分别出来的。
But a dog shall not bark at any of the children of Israel, at man or beast, that you may know that Jehovah makes a distinction between the Egyptians and Israel.
11:8 你这一切臣仆都要下到我这里，向我俯伏，说，求你和跟从你的百姓都出去；然后我才出去。于是，摩西气忿忿的离开法老，出去了。
And all these servants of yours shall come down to me and bow down to me, saying, Get out, you and all the people who follow you; and after that I will go out.
And he went out from Pharaoh in hot anger.
11:9 耶和华对摩西说，法老必不听你们，使我的奇事在埃及地得以增多。
Then Jehovah said to Moses, Pharaoh will not listen to you, in order that My wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt.
11:10 摩西、亚伦在法老面前行了这一切奇事，但耶和华使法老的心刚硬，不让以色列人从他的地出去。
Thus Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh, but Jehovah hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he did not let the children of Israel go out of his land.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 12 章
12:1 耶和华在埃及地告诉摩西、亚伦说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying,
12:2 你们要以本月为诸月之始，为一年的首月。
This month will be the beginning of months for you; it shall be the first of the months of the year to you.
12:3 你们告诉以色列全会众说，本月初十日，各人要按着父家取羊羔，一家一只。
Speak to all the assembly of Israel, saying, On the tenth of this month each man shall take a lamb according to his fathers' house, a lamb for a household.
12:4 若是一家的人太少，吃不了一只羊羔，本人就要和他隔壁的邻舍，照着人数共取一只；你们要按着各人的食量分配羊羔。
And if the household is too small for a lamb, then he and his neighbor next to his house shall take one according to the number of the persons in the houses;
according to each man's eating you shall make your count for the lamb.
12:5 要无残疾、一岁的公羊羔，或从绵羊里取，或从山羊里取，都可以。
Your lamb shall be without blemish, a year-old male; you may take it from the sheep or from the goats.
12:6 要留到本月十四日，在黄昏的时候，以色列全会众把羊羔宰了。
And you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of this month; and the whole congregation of the assembly of Israel shall kill it at twilight.
12:7 各家要取点血，涂在吃羊羔的房屋左右的门框上，和门楣上。
And they shall take some of the blood and put it on the two doorposts and on the lintel of the houses in which they eat it.
12:8 当夜要吃羊羔的肉；用火烤了，与无酵饼和苦菜同吃。
And they shall eat the flesh in that night, roasted with fire, and they shall eat it with unleavened bread with bitter herbs.
12:9 一点不可吃生的，也绝不可吃水煮的，要带着头、腿、内脏，用火烤了吃。
67
Do not eat any of it raw or boiled at all with water, but roasted with fire-its head with its legs and with its inward parts.
12:10 不可剩下一点留到早晨；若留到早晨，要用火烧了。
And you shall not let any of it remain until the morning, but any of it that remains until the morning you shall burn with fire.
12:11 你们当这样吃羊羔：腰间束带，脚上穿鞋，手中拿杖，赶紧的吃；这是耶和华的逾越节。
And this is how you shall eat it: with your loins girded, your sandals on your feet, and your staff in your hand; and you shall eat it in haste. It is Jehovah's passover.
12:12 因为那夜我要走遍埃及地，把埃及地一切头生的，无论是人是牲畜，都击杀了，又要向埃及一切的神施行审判。我是耶和华。
For I will pass through the land of Egypt on that night and will strike all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast. Also against all the gods of Egypt I
will execute judgments. I am Jehovah.
12:13 这血要在你们所住的房屋上作记号；我一见这血，就越过你们去；我击打埃及地的时候，灾殃必不临到你们身上毁灭你们。
And the blood shall be a sign for you upon the houses where you are; and when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and there will be no plague upon you to
destroy you when I strike the land of Egypt.
12:14 你们要记念这日，守为耶和华的节；你们要守这节，作为世世代代永远的定例。
And this day will be a memorial to you, and you shall keep it as a feast to Jehovah; throughout your generations as a perpetual statute you shall keep it as a
feast.
12:15 你们要吃无酵饼七日；头一日要把酵从你们各家中除去；因为从头一日起，到第七日为止，凡吃有酵之物的人，必从以色列中剪除。
Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread; on the first day you shall remove leaven out of your houses, for whoever eats anything leavened from the first day
until the seventh day, that person shall be cut off from Israel.
12:16 头一日你们当有圣会，第七日也当有圣会。这两日之内，除了预备各人所要吃的以外，无论何工都不可作。
And on the first day you shall have a holy convocation, and on the seventh day a holy convocation. No work at all shall be done on them, except to prepare what
every person will eat, that alone may be done by you.
12:17 你们要守无酵节，因为正当这日，我把你们的军队从埃及地领出来。所以你们要守这日，作为世世代代永远的定例。
And you shall keep the Feast of Unleavened Bread, for on this very day I have brought your armies out of the land of Egypt; therefore you shall keep this day
throughout your generations as a perpetual statute.
12:18 从正月十四日晚上，直到二十一日晚上，你们要吃无酵饼。
In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month in the evening, you shall eat unleavened bread, until the twenty- first day of the month in the evening.
12:19 在你们各家中，七日之内不可有酵；因为凡吃有酵之物的人，无论是寄居的，是本地的，必从以色列的会中剪除。
For seven days no leaven shall be found in your houses. For whoever eats what is leavened, that person shall be cut off from the assembly of Israel, whether a
sojourner or a native of the land.
12:20 有酵的物，你们都不可吃；在你们一切住处要吃无酵饼。
You shall eat nothing leavened; in all your dwelling places you shall eat unleavened bread.
12:21 于是，摩西召了以色列的众长老来，对他们说，你们要按着家取出羊羔，把这逾越节的羊羔宰了。
Then Moses called for all the elders of Israel and said to them, Draw out and take lambs according to your families, and slaughter the passover.
12:22 拿一把牛膝草，蘸盆里的血，打一些在门楣上，和左右的门框上。你们谁也不可出自己的房门，直到早晨。
And you shall take a bunch of hyssop and dip it in the blood that is in the basin, and you shall apply some of the blood that is in the basin to the lintel and to the
two doorposts; and none of you shall go outside the entrance of his house until the morning.
12:23 因为耶和华要巡行击杀埃及人；祂看见血在门楣上，和左右的门框上，就必越过那门，不许灭命的进你们的房屋，击杀你们。
For Jehovah will pass through to smite the Egyptians; and when He sees the blood upon the lintel and on the two doorposts, Jehovah will pass over the entrance
and will not allow the destroyer to come into your houses to smite you.
12:24 你们要守这话，作为你们和你们子孙永远的定例。
And you shall observe this matter as a statute for you and for your sons in perpetuity.
12:25 日后，你们到了耶和华按着应许所赐给你们的那地，就要持守这事奉。
And when you come to the land which Jehovah will give you, as He has promised, you shall observe this service.
12:26 你们的儿女问你们说，这事奉是什么意思？
And when your children say to you, What does this service mean to you?
12:27 你们就要说，这是献给耶和华逾越节的祭。当以色列人在埃及的时候，祂击杀埃及人，越过以色列人的房屋，救了我们各家。于是百姓低头敬拜。
You shall say, It is the passover sacrifice to Jehovah, who passed over the houses of the children of Israel in Egypt when He smote the Egyptians and delivered our
houses. And the people bowed and worshipped.
12:28 以色列人就去行了；耶和华怎样吩咐摩西、亚伦，以色列人就怎样行。
And the children of Israel went and did so; just as Jehovah had commanded Moses and Aaron, so they did.
12:29 到了半夜，耶和华把埃及地所有头生的，就是从坐宝座的法老，直到被掳囚在牢里的人，所生的长子，以及一切头生的牲畜，尽都击杀了。
And at midnight Jehovah struck all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sat on his throne to the firstborn of the captive who was in
the dungeon, and all the firstborn of cattle.
12:30 法老和他一切的臣仆，并埃及众人，夜间都起来了；在埃及有大哀号，因为没有一家不死一个人的。
And Pharaoh arose in the night, he and all his servants and all the Egyptians; and there was a great cry in Egypt, for there was no house where there was not
someone dead.
12:31 夜间，法老召了摩西、亚伦来，说，起来，连你们带以色列人，从我的民中出去，照你们所说的，去事奉耶和华。
And he called for Moses and Aaron in the night and said, Rise up, go out from the midst of my people, both you and the children of Israel; and go, serve Jehovah,
as you have said.
12:32 也照你们所说的，连羊群牛群都带着走；并要为我祝福。
Take both your flocks and your herds, as you have said; and go and bless me also.
12:33 埃及人催促百姓，打发他们快快出离那地，因为埃及人说，我们都要死了。
And the Egyptians urged the people, so as to hasten their departure out of the land, for they said, All of us will be dead.
12:34 百姓就拿着没有酵的生面，把抟面盆包在衣服中，扛在肩头上。
And the people took their dough before it was leavened, their kneading bowls being bound up in their clothes upon their shoulders.
12:35 以色列人照着摩西的话行，向埃及人要银器、金器和衣裳。
And the children of Israel did according to the word of Moses, and they asked the Egyptians for articles of silver and gold and clothing.
68
12:36 耶和华叫百姓在埃及人眼前蒙恩，以致埃及人给了他们所要的。他们就把埃及人的财物掠夺了。
And Jehovah gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, so that they let them have what they asked. Thus they plundered the Egyptians.
12:37 以色列人从兰塞起行，往疏割去；除了妇人孩子，步行的男丁约有六十万。
And the children of Israel journeyed from Rameses to Succoth, about six hundred thousand men on foot, besides children.
12:38 又有许多闲杂人，并有羊群牛群，有极多的牲口，和他们一同上去。
And a mixed multitude went up also with them, as well as flocks and herds, a very large number of livestock.
12:39 他们用埃及带出来的生面烤成无酵饼。这生面原没有发起，因为他们被催赶离开埃及，不能耽延，也没有为自己预备什么食物。
And they baked the dough which they brought out of Egypt into unleavened cakes, for it had not been leavened because they were driven out of Egypt and could
not delay; nor had they prepared for themselves any provisions.
12:40 以色列人住在埃及，共有四百三十年。
Now the time of the sojourning of the children of Israel, who dwelt in Egypt, was four hundred thirty years.
12:41 正满了四百三十年的那一天，耶和华的军队都从埃及地出来了。
And at the end of four hundred thirty years, on that very day, all the armies of Jehovah went out from the land of Egypt.
12:42 这夜是耶和华守望的夜，因耶和华领他们出了埃及地；这夜也是以色列众人向耶和华守望的夜，直到世世代代。
It was for Jehovah a night of watching, to bring them out from the land of Egypt. That same night is a night of watching to Jehovah for all the children of Israel
throughout their generations.
12:43 耶和华对摩西、亚伦说，逾越节的定例是这样：外邦人都不可吃这羊羔。
And Jehovah said to Moses and Aaron, This is the statute of the passover: No foreigner shall eat of it.
12:44 但各人用银子买的奴仆，受了割礼之后，就可以吃。
However any man's servant who is bought for silver, when you have circumcised him, then he shall eat of it.
12:45 寄居的和雇工，都不可吃。
A sojourner and a hired servant shall not eat of it.
12:46 应当在一个房子里吃；不可把一点肉从房子里带到外面。羊羔的骨头一根也不可折断。
It shall be eaten in one house. You shall not take any of the flesh outside the house, nor shall you break any of its bones.
12:47 以色列全会众都要守这节。
All the assembly of Israel shall keep it.
12:48 若有外人寄居在你们中间，愿向耶和华守逾越节，他所有的男子务要受割礼，然后才让他前来遵守，他也就像本地人一样；但未受割礼的，都不可
吃这羊羔。
But if a stranger sojourns with you and will observe the Passover to Jehovah, let all his males be circumcised, and then let him come near to observe it; and he
will be like one who is a native of the land. But no uncircumcised person shall eat of it.
12:49 本地人和寄居在你们中间的外人，同归一例。
One law shall be for the native and for the stranger who sojourns among you.
12:50 以色列众人都这样行了；耶和华怎样吩咐摩西、亚伦，以色列众人就怎样行。
And all the children of Israel did so; just as Jehovah commanded Moses and Aaron, so they did.
12:51 正当那日，耶和华将以色列人按着他们的军队，从埃及地领出来。
And on that very day Jehovah brought the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their armies.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 13 章
13:1 耶和华告诉摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
13:2 要把一切头生的分别为圣归我：以色列中头胎的，无论是人是牲畜，都是我的。
Sanctify to Me all the firstborn: Whatever opens the womb among the children of Israel, both of man and of beast, it is Mine.
13:3 摩西对百姓说，你们要记念从埃及为奴之家出来的这日，因为耶和华用大能的手，将你们从这地方领出来；有酵的物都不可吃。
And Moses said to the people, Remember this day on which you came out from Egypt, from the slave house, for by strength of hand Jehovah brought you out
from this place; and nothing leavened shall be eaten.
13:4 你们是在亚笔月间的这日出来的。
On this day in the month of Abib you are going out.
13:5 将来耶和华领你进迦南人、赫人、亚摩利人、希未人、耶布斯人之地，就是祂向你的祖宗起誓要赐给你那流奶与蜜之地，那时你要在这月间持守这事
奉。
And when Jehovah brings you into the land of the Canaanites and the Hittites and the Amorites and the Hivites and the Jebusites, which He swore to your fathers
to give you, a land flowing with milk and honey, you shall observe this service in this month:
13:6 你要吃无酵饼七日，到第七日要向耶和华守节。
Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, and on the seventh day there shall be a feast to Jehovah.
13:7 这七日之久，要吃无酵饼；在你那里不可见有酵的物，在你四境之内也不可见发酵物。
Unleavened bread shall be eaten throughout the seven days, and nothing leavened shall be seen among you, nor shall any leaven be seen among you in all
your territory.
13:8 当那日，你要告诉你的儿子说，这是因耶和华在我出埃及的时候为我所行的事。
And you shall tell your son in that day, saying, It is because of what Jehovah did for me when I came out of Egypt.
13:9 这要在你手上作记号，在你额上作记念，使耶和华的律法常在你口中，因为耶和华曾用大能的手，将你从埃及领出来。
And it shall be for a sign to you upon your hand and for a memorial between your eyes, that the law of Jehovah may be in your mouth; for with a mighty hand
Jehovah brought you out of Egypt.
13:10 所以你每年要按着所定的日期守这定例。
You shall therefore keep this statute at its appointed time from year to year.
13:11 将来，耶和华照祂向你和你祖宗所起的誓，将你领进迦南人之地，把那地赐给你，
And when Jehovah brings you into the land of the Canaanites, as He swore to you and to your fathers, and gives it to you,
69
13:12 那时你要将一切头胎的，并牲畜中头生的崽子，归给耶和华；公的都要属耶和华。
You shall set apart to Jehovah everything that opens the womb and the first offspring of every beast which is yours; the males shall be Jehovah's.
13:13 凡头生的驴，你要用羊羔代赎；若不代赎，就要打折它的颈项。凡你儿子中头生的都要赎出来。
And every first offspring of a donkey you shall redeem with a lamb; and if you do not redeem it, you shall break its neck. And every firstborn male among your
sons you shall redeem.
13:14 日后，你的儿子问你说，这是什么意思？你就说，耶和华用大能的手将我们从埃及为奴之家领出来；
And when your son asks you in time to come, saying, What is this? you shall say to him, By strength of hand Jehovah brought us out from Egypt, from the slave
house.
13:15 那时法老心里刚硬，不让我们去，耶和华就把埃及地所有头生的，无论是人是牲畜都杀了。因此，我把一切头胎的公牲畜献给耶和华为祭，但将头
生的儿子都赎出来。
And when Pharaoh hardened himself against letting us go, Jehovah slew all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both the firstborn of man and the firstborn of beast.
Therefore I am one who sacrifices to Jehovah all that open the womb that are males; and all the firstborn of my sons I redeem.
13:16 这要在你手上作记号，在你额上作头带，因为耶和华用大能的手将我们从埃及领出来。
So it will be as a sign upon your hand and as frontlets between your eyes, for by strength of hand Jehovah brought us out of Egypt.
13:17 法老让百姓去的时候，非利士人之地的道路虽近，神却不领他们从那里走；因为神说，恐怕百姓看见战争后悔，就回埃及去。
Now when Pharaoh let the people go, God did not lead them by the way of the land of the Philistines, although that was near; for God said, Perhaps the people
will change their minds when they see war and return to Egypt.
13:18 所以神领百姓绕道而行，走旷野通往红海的路。以色列人出埃及地，是列队上去的。
Thus God led the people around by the way of the wilderness to the Red Sea. And the children of Israel went up arrayed for battle out of the land of Egypt.
13:19 摩西把约瑟的骸骨一同带去；因为约瑟曾叫以色列人郑重的起誓，对他们说，神必眷顾你们，你们要把我的骸骨从这里一同带上去。
And Moses took the bones of Joseph with him, for Joseph had made the children of Israel solemnly swear, saying, God will surely visit you, and you shall bring
my bones up from here with you.
13:20 他们从疏割起行，在旷野边的以倘安营。
And they journeyed from Succoth and encamped in Etham on the edge of the wilderness.
13:21 耶和华在他们前面行，日间在云柱中领他们的路；夜间在火柱中光照他们，使他们日夜都可以行走。
And Jehovah went before them by day in a pillar of cloud to lead them on the way and by night in a pillar of fire to give them light, that they might go by day and
by night.
13:22 日间云柱，夜间火柱，总不离开百姓的面前。
Neither the pillar of cloud by day nor the pillar of fire by night departed from before the people.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 14 章
14:1 耶和华告诉摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
14:2 你吩咐以色列人转回，安营在比哈希录前，密夺和海之间；你们要对着巴力洗分，靠近海边安营。
Tell the children of Israel to turn back and camp before Pi-hahiroth, between Migdol and the sea. You shall camp before Baal-zephon, opposite it, by the sea.
14:3 法老必论到以色列人说，他们在这地绕迷了，旷野把他们困住了。
And Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel, They are wandering aimlessly in the land; the wilderness has hemmed them in.
14:4 我要使法老的心刚硬，他要追赶他们，我便借着法老和他的全军荣耀我自己；埃及人就知道我是耶和华。于是以色列人这样行了。
And I will harden Pharaoh's heart, and he will pursue after them; and I will glorify Myself through Pharaoh and through all his army, and the Egyptians will know
that I am Jehovah. And they did so.
14:5 有人告诉埃及王说，百姓逃跑了。法老。法老和他的臣仆就向百姓变心，说，我们让以色列人去，不再服事我们，这作的是什么事呢？
And when it was told to the king of Egypt that the people had fled, the heart of Pharaoh and his servants changed toward the people; and they said, What is this
we have done, letting Israel go from serving us?
14:6 法老就套上他的战车，带着军兵同去，
So he yoked his chariot and took his people with him.
14:7 并带着六百辆特选的战车，和埃及所有的战车，每辆都有车兵长。
And he took six hundred chosen chariots and all the other chariots of Egypt with officers over all of them.
14:8 耶和华使埃及王法老的心刚硬，他就追赶以色列人；那时以色列人昂然无惧的出了埃及。
And Jehovah hardened the heart of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, so that he pursued after the children of Israel as the children of Israel were going out with a high
hand.
14:9 埃及人追赶他们，法老一切的马匹、战车、马兵与军兵，就在海边，靠近比哈希录，对着巴力洗分，在他们安营的地方追上了。
And the Egyptians pursued after them, all the horses and chariots of Pharaoh and his horsemen and his army; and they overtook them as they encamped by the
sea, beside Pi-hahiroth, before Baal- zephon.
14:10 法老临近的时候，以色列人举目看见埃及人追来，就甚惧怕，向耶和华呼求。
And when Pharaoh approached, the children of Israel lifted up their eyes, and there the Egyptians were, marching after them; and they became very afraid, and
the children of Israel cried out to Jehovah.
14:11 他们对摩西说，难道因为在埃及没有坟地，所以你把我们带出来死在旷野么？你为什么这样待我们，将我们从埃及领出来？
And they said to Moses, Is it because there were no graves in Egypt that you have taken us away to die in the wilderness? Why have you done this to us, bringing
us out of Egypt?
14:12 我们在埃及岂没有对你说过，不要管我们，让我们服事埃及人么？因为服事埃及人比死在旷野还好。
Is this not the very thing that we spoke to you about in Egypt, saying, Leave us alone that we may serve the Egyptians? For it would have been better for us to
serve the Egyptians than to die in the wilderness.
14:13 摩西对百姓说，不要惧怕，只管站住，看耶和华今天向你们所要施行的拯救；因为你们今天所看见的埃及人，必永远不再看见了。
But Moses said to the people, Do not be afraid; stand firm, and see the salvation of Jehovah, which He will accomplish for you today; for the Egyptians whom you
have seen today, you will see no more again forever.
70
14:14 耶和华必为你们争战；你们只管静默，不要作声。
Jehovah will fight for you, and you will be still.
14:15 耶和华对摩西说，你为什么向我呼求？你吩咐以色列人往前行。
And Jehovah said to Moses, Why do you cry out to Me? Tell the children of Israel to move forward.
14:16 你举杖向海伸手，把海分开；以色列人要下到海中走干地。
And you, lift up your staff, and stretch out your hand over the sea, and divide it; and the children of Israel shall go into the midst of the sea on dry ground.
14:17 我要使埃及人的心刚硬，他们就跟着下去；我要借着法老和他的全军，借着他的战车和马兵，荣耀我自己。
And I will now harden the hearts of the Egyptians, and they shall go in after them; and I will glorify Myself through Pharaoh and through all his army, through his
chariots and through his horsemen.
14:18 我借着法老和他的战车、马兵荣耀我自己的时候，埃及人就知道我是耶和华了。
Then the Egyptians will know that I am Jehovah when I glorify Myself through Pharaoh, through his chariots and through his horsemen.
14:19 在以色列营前行走的神的使者，转到他们后边行走；云柱也从他们前边转到他们后边立住。
And the Angel of God, who went before the camp of Israel, moved and went behind them; and the pillar of cloud moved from before them and stood behind
them.
14:20 在埃及营和以色列营之间有云柱，一边黑暗，一边发光；终夜双方不得相近。
And it came between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel. And the cloud was there with the darkness, yet it gave light by night to them. Thus one
did not come near the other all night.
14:21 摩西向海伸手，耶和华便用强大的东风，使海水一夜退去，叫海成了干地；水就分开了。
And when Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, Jehovah caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all the night and made the sea dry land; and the
waters were divided.
14:22 以色列人下到海中，走在干地上，水在他们的左右作了墙垣。
And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon the dry ground, and the waters were a wall to them on their right hand and on their left.
14:23 埃及人追赶他们，法老一切的马匹、战车和马兵，都跟着下到海中。
Then the Egyptians pursued; and all Pharaoh's horses, his chariots, and his horsemen went in after them into the midst of the sea.
14:24 到了晨更的时候，耶和华从云火柱中向埃及人的营观看，使埃及人的营混乱了；
And at the morning watch Jehovah looked down upon the camp of the Egyptians in the pillar of fire and of cloud and threw the camp of the Egyptians into
confusion.
14:25 祂又使他们的车轮偏歪，难以行驶，以致埃及人说，我们从以色列人面前逃跑罢！因耶和华为他们争战，攻击埃及人了。
And He caused their chariot wheels to swerve and made them drive with difficulty, so that the Egyptians said, Let us flee from Israel, for Jehovah is fighting for
them against the Egyptians.
14:26 耶和华对摩西说，你向海伸手，叫水回流，淹没埃及人并他们的战车、马兵。
And Jehovah said to Moses, Stretch out your hand over the sea so that the waters come back over the Egyptians, over their chariots and over their horsemen.
14:27 摩西就向海伸手，到了天亮，海水回流复原。埃及人避水逃跑的时候，耶和华把他们推翻在海中。
And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and the sea returned to its level when the morning appeared. And the Egyptians fled against it, and Jehovah
overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of the sea.
14:28 水回流，淹没了战车和马兵。那些跟着以色列人下海法老的全军，连一个也没有剩下。
And as the waters returned, they covered the chariots and the horsemen, even all the army of Pharaoh that went in after them into the sea; not even one of them
was left.
14:29 以色列人却在海中干地上走过；水在他们的左右作了墙垣。
But the children of Israel walked on dry land through the midst of the sea, and the waters were a wall to them on their right hand and on their left.
14:30 当日，耶和华这样拯救以色列人脱离埃及人的手，以色列人看见埃及人的死尸都在海边了。
Thus Jehovah saved Israel that day out of the hand of the Egyptians, and Israel saw the Egyptians dead upon the seashore.
14:31 以色列人看见耶和华向埃及人所施的大能，就敬畏耶和华，又信服祂和祂的仆人摩西。
And when Israel saw the great power which Jehovah exercised against the Egyptians, the people feared Jehovah; and they believed in Jehovah and in His
servant Moses.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 15 章
15:1 那时，摩西和以色列人向耶和华唱这歌，说，我要向耶和华歌唱，因祂大大战胜，将马和骑马的投在海中。
Then Moses and the children of Israel sang this song to Jehovah and spoke, saying, I will sing to Jehovah, for He has triumphed gloriously; The horse and its rider
He has cast into the sea.
15:2 耶和华是我的力量，是我的诗歌，祂也成了我的拯救。这是我的神，我要赞美祂；是我父亲的神，我要尊崇祂。
Jah is my strength and song, And He has become my salvation; This is my God, and I will praise Him; My father's God, and I will exalt Him.
15:3 耶和华是战士；祂的名是耶和华。
Jehovah is a man of war; Jehovah is His name.
15:4 祂已将法老的战车和军兵，抛在海里；法老特选的车兵长，都沉在红海中。
Pharaoh's chariots and his army He has thrown into the sea; And his choice officers have drowned in the Red Sea.
15:5 深水淹没他们；他们如同石头坠到深处。
The deep waters cover them; They went down into the depths like a stone.
15:6 耶和华阿，你的右手施展能力，显出荣耀；耶和华阿，你的右手摔碎仇敌。
Your right hand, O Jehovah, is glorious in power; Your right hand, O Jehovah, dashed the enemy in pieces.
15:7 你大发威严，推翻那些起来攻击你的；你发出烈怒如火，把他们像碎秸一样烧灭了。
And in the greatness of Your excellence You overthrew those who rose up against You. You sent forth Your burning wrath; It consumed them like stubble.
15:8 你发鼻中的气，水便聚起成堆，流水直立如垒，深水在海心凝结。
And with the blast of Your nostrils the waters were heaped up; The flowing currents stood up like a heap; The deep waters congealed in the heart of the sea.
15:9 仇敌说，我要追赶，我要追上，我要分掳物；我要在他们身上称我的心愿。我要拔出刀来，亲手杀灭他们。
71
The enemy said, I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the spoil; My desire will be satisfied upon them; I will draw my sword; my hand will destroy them.
15:10 你叫风一吹，海就把他们淹没；他们如铅沉在大水之中。
You blew with Your wind; the sea covered them; They sank like lead in the mighty waters.
15:11 耶和华阿，众神之中，有谁像你？有谁像你，圣别荣耀，可颂可畏，施行奇事？
Who is like You, O Jehovah, among the gods? Who is like You, splendid in holiness, Awesome in praises, doing wonders?
15:12 你伸出右手，地便吞灭他们。
You stretched out Your right hand; The earth swallowed them.
15:13 你凭慈爱，领了你所赎的百姓；你凭能力，引了他们到你圣别的居所。
In Your lovingkindness You have led the people whom You have redeemed; You have guided them in Your strength to Your holy habitation.
15:14 万民听见就发颤；疼痛抓住非利士的居民。
The peoples heard; they trembled. Pangs have seized the inhabitants of Philistia.
15:15 那时，以东的族长惊惶，摩押的勇士被战兢抓住，迦南的居民都丧胆了。
Then the chiefs of Edom are dismayed; The mighty men of Moab, trembling has seized them; All the inhabitants of Canaan have melted away.
15:16 惊骇恐惧临到他们；耶和华阿，因你膀臂的大能，他们如石头寂然不动，直等你的百姓过去，直等你所买的百姓过去。
Terror and dread have fallen upon them; By the greatness of Your arm they have become as still as stone, Until Your people passed over, O Jehovah, Until the
people whom You purchased passed over.
15:17 你要将他们领进去，栽于你产业的山上，耶和华阿，就是你为自己所造的住处，主阿，就是你手所建立的圣所。
You will bring them in and plant them in the mountain of Your inheritance, The place, O Jehovah, which You have made for Your dwelling, The sanctuary, O Lord,
which Your hands have established.
15:18 耶和华必作王，直到永永远远。
Jehovah shall reign forever and ever.
15:19 因为法老的马匹、战车和马兵下到海中，耶和华使海水回流，淹没了他们；以色列人却在海中干地上走过去。
For the horses of Pharaoh with his chariots and with his horsemen went into the sea, and Jehovah brought back the waters of the sea upon them while the
children of Israel walked on dry land through the midst of the sea.
15:20 亚伦的姐姐，女申言者米利暗，手里拿着鼓；众妇女也跟她出去拿鼓跳舞。
And Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a tambourine in her hand; and all the women went out after her with tambourines and with dancing.
15:21 米利暗应和他们说，你们要歌颂耶和华，因祂大大战胜，将马和骑马的投在海中。
And Miriam responded to them, Sing to Jehovah, for He has triumphed gloriously; The horse and its rider He has cast into the sea.
15:22 摩西领以色列人从红海往前行，出到书珥的旷野，在旷野走了三天，找不着水。
Then Moses moved Israel onward from the Red Sea, and they went out into the wilderness of Shur. And they went three days in the wilderness and found no
water.
15:23 到了玛拉，不能喝那里的水，因为水苦；所以那地名叫玛拉。
And when they came to Marah, they could not drink of the waters of Marah, for they were bitter; therefore its name was called Marah.
15:24 百姓向摩西发怨言，说，我们喝什么呢？
And the people murmured against Moses, saying, What shall we drink?
15:25 摩西呼求耶和华，耶和华指示他一棵树。他把树丢在水里，水就变甜了。耶和华在那里为他们定了律例、典章，在那里试验他们；
And he cried out to Jehovah, and Jehovah showed him a tree; and he cast it into the waters, and the waters became sweet. There He made for them a statute
and an ordinance, and there He tested them.
15:26 又说，你若留意听耶和华你神的话，又行我眼中看为正的事，侧耳听我的诫命，守我一切的律例，我就不将所加与埃及人的疾病加在你身上，因为
我是医治你的耶和华。
And He said, If you will listen carefully to the voice of Jehovah your God and do what is right in His eyes and give ear to His commandments and keep all His
statutes, I will put none of the diseases on you which I have put on the Egyptians; for I am Jehovah who heals you.
15:27 他们到了以琳，在那里有十二股水泉，七十棵棕树；他们就在那里的水边安营。
And they came to Elim, where there were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees; and they encamped there by the waters.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 16 章
16:1 以色列全会众从以琳起行，在出埃及地后第二个月十五日，到了以琳和西乃之间，汛的旷野。
And they journeyed from Elim, and all the assembly of the children of Israel came to the wilderness of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of
the second month after their departure out of the land of Egypt.
16:2 以色列全会众在旷野向摩西、亚伦发怨言，
And the whole assembly of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron in the wilderness.
16:3 对他们说，巴不得我们在埃及地死在耶和华的手下；那时我们坐在肉锅旁边，有食物吃得饱足。你们将我们领出来，到这旷野，是要叫这全会众都饿
死阿！
And the children of Israel said to them, If only we had died by the hand of Jehovah in the land of Egypt, when we sat by the fleshpots, when we ate bread to the
full; for you have brought us out into this wilderness to kill this whole congregation with hunger.
16:4 耶和华对摩西说，我要将粮食从天降给你们。百姓可以出去，每天收取当天的分，我好试验他们遵不遵行我的法度。
Then Jehovah said to Moses, I will now rain bread from heaven for you; and the people shall go out and gather a day's portion every day, that I may test them,
whether or not they will walk in My law.
16:5 到第六天，他们要把所收进来的预备好，比每天所收取的多一倍。
And on the sixth day when they prepare what they bring in, it will be twice as much as they gather daily.
16:6 摩西、亚伦对以色列众人说，到了晚上，你们就知道是耶和华将你们从埃及地领出来的。
So Moses and Aaron said to all the children of Israel, In the evening you will know that Jehovah has brought you out from the land of Egypt;
16:7 早晨，你们要看见耶和华的荣耀，因为耶和华听见你们向祂所发的怨言了。我们算什么，你们竟向我们发怨言？
And in the morning you will see the glory of Jehovah, for He hears your murmurings against Jehovah. And what are we, that you murmur against us?
72
16:8 摩西又说，耶和华晚上必给你们肉吃，早晨必给你们食物得饱；因为你们向耶和华发的怨言，祂都听见了。我们算什么？你们的怨言不是向我们发的，
乃是向耶和华发的。
And Moses said, This you will see when Jehovah gives you flesh to eat in the evening, and bread to the full in the morning; for Jehovah hears your murmurings
which you murmur against Him. And what are we? Your murmurings are not against us but against Jehovah.
16:9 摩西对亚伦说，你告诉以色列全会众说，你们就近耶和华面前，因为祂已经听见你们的怨言了。
And Moses said to Aaron, Say to all the assembly of the children of Israel, Come near before Jehovah, for He has heard your murmurings.
16:10 亚伦正对以色列全会众说话的时候，他们向旷野观看，不料，耶和华的荣光在云中显现。
And as Aaron spoke to the whole assembly of the children of Israel, they looked toward the wilderness, and there the glory of Jehovah appeared in the cloud.
16:11 耶和华告诉摩西说，
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
16:12 我已经听见以色列人的怨言。你告诉他们说，到黄昏的时候，你们要吃肉，早晨必有食物得饱，你们就知道我是耶和华你们的神。
I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel. Speak to them, saying, At twilight you will eat flesh, and in the morning you will be filled with bread; and you
shall know that I am Jehovah your God.
16:13 到了晚上，有鹌鹑飞上来，遮满了营；早晨营的四围满了露水。
And at evening quails came up and covered the camp, and in the morning there was a layer of dew around the camp.
16:14 露水上升之后，不料，旷野的地面上有细小的圆物，细小如地上的霜。
And when the layer of dew lifted, there upon the surface of the wilderness were fine round flakes, fine as the frost on the earth.
16:15 以色列人看见，不知道是什么，就彼此对问说，这是什么？摩西对他们说，这就是耶和华给你们吃的食物。
And when the children of Israel saw it, they said to one another, What is it? For they did not know what it was. And Moses said to them, It is the bread which
Jehovah has given you to eat.
16:16 耶和华所吩咐的是这样，你们要按着各人的食量收取；各按自己帐棚里的人数收取，每人一俄梅珥。
This is what Jehovah has commanded, Gather of it, each one according to his eating; you shall take an omer a head, according to the number of your persons,
each one for those who are in his tent.
16:17 以色列人就这样行；有多收的，有少收的。
And the children of Israel did so; and some gathered much, and some little.
16:18 及至用俄梅珥量一量，多收的没有余，少收的也没有缺；各人按着自己的食量收取。
And when they measured it with an omer, he who gathered much had no excess, and he who gathered little had no lack; each of them gathered according to
his eating.
16:19 摩西对他们说，所收的，不许什么人留到早晨。
And Moses said to them, Let no man leave any of it until the morning.
16:20 然而他们不听摩西，有人把一些留到早晨，就生虫变臭了；摩西便向他们发怒。
But they did not listen to Moses, and some men left part of it until the morning; and it bred worms and stank. And Moses was indignant with them.
16:21 他们每日早晨，按着各人的食量收取；日头一发热，就融化了。
And they gathered it morning by morning, each one according to his eating; and when the sun became hot, it melted.
16:22 到第六天，他们收了双倍的食物，每人二俄梅珥。会众的首领都来告诉摩西。
And on the sixth day they gathered twice as much bread, two omers for each one; and all the leaders of the assembly came and told Moses.
16:23 摩西对他们说，耶和华这样说，明天是完全安息的日子，是向耶和华守的圣安息日。你们要烤的就烤了，要煮的就煮了，所剩下的要自己保存着，
直留到早晨。
And he said to them, This is what Jehovah has spoken, Tomorrow is a Sabbath of complete rest, a holy Sabbath to Jehovah. Bake what you will bake, and boil
what you will boil, and all that is left over put aside for yourselves to be kept until the morning.
16:24 他们就照摩西的吩咐留到早晨，竟然不变臭，里头也没有虫子。
And they put it aside until the morning, as Moses commanded; and it did not stink, nor was there any worm in it.
16:25 摩西说，你们今天吃这个罢，因为今天是向耶和华守的安息日；你们在田野必找不着了。
And Moses said, Eat it today, for today is a Sabbath to Jehovah; today you will not find it in the field.
16:26 六天可以收取，第七天乃是安息日，那一天必没有了。
Six days you shall gather it, but on the seventh day is the Sabbath; on it there will be none.
16:27 第七天，百姓中有人出去收取，什么也找不着。
And on the seventh day some of the people went out to gather, and they found none.
16:28 耶和华对摩西说，你们不肯守我的诫命和法度，要到几时呢？
And Jehovah said to Moses, How long do you refuse to keep My commandments and My laws?
16:29 看哪，耶和华既将安息日赐给你们，所以第六天祂赐给你们两天的食物；第七天各人要住在自己的地方，不许什么人出去。
See, Jehovah has given you the Sabbath, therefore He gives you bread for two days on the sixth day. Let each of you stay in his place; let no man go out of his
place on the seventh day.
16:30 于是百姓第七天安息了。
So the people rested on the seventh day.
16:31 这食物，以色列家起名叫吗哪，就像芫荽子，是白色的，滋味如同搀蜜的薄饼。
And the house of Israel called its name manna, and it was like coriander seed, white; and its taste was like wafers made with honey.
16:32 摩西说，耶和华所吩咐的是这样，要将一满俄梅珥吗哪留到世世代代，使后人可以看见我当日将你们领出埃及地，在旷野所给你们吃的食物。
And Moses said, This is what Jehovah has commanded, Let an omerful of it be kept throughout your generations, that they may see the bread which I fed you in
the wilderness, when I brought you out from the land of Egypt.
16:33 摩西对亚伦说，你拿一个罐子，盛一满俄梅珥吗哪，存放在耶和华面前，要留到世世代代。
And Moses said to Aaron, Take a pot, and put an omerful of manna in it, and place it before Jehovah, to be kept throughout your generations.
16:34 亚伦就照耶和华所吩咐摩西的，把吗哪存放在见证的版前保留着。
As Jehovah commanded Moses, so Aaron placed it before the testimony to be kept.
16:35 以色列人吃吗哪共四十年，直到进了有人居住之地，就是迦南地的境界。
73
And the children of Israel ate the manna forty years, until they came to inhabitable land; they ate the manna until they came to the border of the land of Canaan.
16:36 一俄梅珥就是一伊法的十分之一。
Now an omer is a tenth of an ephah.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 17 章
17:1 以色列全会众都遵照耶和华的吩咐，从汛的旷野一站一站的前行，在利非订安营；在那里百姓没有水喝，
And all the assembly of the children of Israel journeyed from the wilderness of Sin by their stages according to the command of Jehovah and encamped in
Rephidim, and there was no water for the people to drink.
17:2 所以与摩西争闹，说，给我们水喝罢！摩西对他们说，你们为什么与我争闹？为什么试探耶和华？
Therefore the people contended with Moses and said, Give us water that we may drink. And Moses said to them, Why are you contending with me? Why do you
test Jehovah?
17:3 百姓在那里甚渴，要喝水，就向摩西发怨言，说，你为什么领我们从埃及上来，使我们和我们的儿女并牲畜都渴死呢？
So the people thirsted there for water, and the people murmured against Moses and said, For what reason did you bring us up out of Egypt; to kill us and our
children and our livestock with thirst?
17:4 摩西就呼求耶和华说，我要怎样对待这百姓呢？他们几乎要拿石头打死我。
So Moses cried out to Jehovah, saying, What shall I do with this people? A little more, and they will stone me.
17:5 耶和华对摩西说，你手里拿着先前击打河水的杖，带着以色列的几个长老，从百姓面前走过去。
And Jehovah said to Moses, Pass on before the people, and take with you some of the elders of Israel; and take in your hand your staff with which you struck the
River, and go.
17:6 我必在何烈的磐石那里，站在你面前；你要击打磐石，就必有水从磐石流出来，使百姓可以喝。摩西就在以色列的长老眼前这样行了。
I will be standing before you there upon the rock in Horeb; and you shall strike the rock, and water will come out of it so that the people may drink. And Moses
did so in the sight of the elders of Israel.
17:7 他给那地方起名叫玛撒，又叫米利巴；这是因以色列人争闹，又因他们试探耶和华，说，耶和华是在我们中间不是？
And he called the name of the place Massah and Meribah, because of the contention of the children of Israel and because they tested Jehovah, saying, Is
Jehovah among us, or not?
17:8 那时，亚玛力人来在利非订，和以色列人争战。
Then Amalek came and fought with Israel in Rephidim.
17:9 摩西对约书亚说，你为我们选出人来，出去和亚玛力人争战。明天我手里要拿着神的杖，站在山顶上。
And Moses said to Joshua, Choose men for us, and go out; fight with Amalek. Tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the staff of God in my hand.
17:10 于是约书亚照着摩西对他所说的话行，和亚玛力人争战。摩西、亚伦与户珥，都上了山顶。
So Joshua did as Moses had said to him and fought with Amalek; and Moses, Aaron, and Hur went up to the top of the hill.
17:11 摩西何时举手，以色列人就得胜；何时垂手，亚玛力人就得胜。
And when Moses lifted his hand up, Israel prevailed; and when he let his hand down, Amalek prevailed.
17:12 但摩西的手发沉，他们就搬一块石头来，放在他以下，他就坐在上面。亚伦与户珥扶着他的手，一个在这边，一个在那边，他的手就稳住，直到日
落的时候。
But Moses' hands were heavy, so they took a stone and put it under him, and he sat on it; and Aaron and Hur supported his hands, one on one side and one on
the other side. So his hands were steady until the going down of the sun.
17:13 约书亚用刀击败了亚玛力王和他的百姓。
And Joshua defeated Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword.
17:14 耶和华对摩西说，我要将亚玛力的名号从天下全然涂抹；你要将这话写在书上作记念，又念给约书亚听。
And Jehovah said to Moses, Write this as a memorial in a book and recite it to Joshua, that I will utterly blot out the memory of Amalek from under heaven.
17:15 摩西筑了一座坛，起名叫耶和华尼西；
And Moses built an altar and called the name of it Jehovah-nissi;
17:16 又说，因为有手敌挡耶和华的宝座；耶和华必世世代代和亚玛力人争战。
For he said, For there is a hand against the throne of Jah! Jehovah will have war with Amalek from generation to generation.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 18 章
18:1 摩西的岳父，米甸祭司叶忒罗，听见神为摩西和神的百姓以色列所行的一切事，就是耶和华将以色列从埃及领出来的事，
Now Jethro, the priest of Midian, Moses' father-in-law, heard of all that God had done for Moses and for Israel His people, how Jehovah had brought Israel out
of Egypt.
18:2 便带着摩西的妻子西坡拉，就是摩西从前打发回去的，
And Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, had taken Moses' wife Zipporah, after he had sent her away,
18:3 又带着西坡拉的两个儿子，一个名叫革舜，因为摩西说，我在异地作了寄居的；
And her two sons, of whom the name of one was Gershom, for Moses said, I have been a sojourner in a foreign land;
18:4 一个名叫以利以谢，因为他说，我父亲的神帮助了我，拯救我脱离法老的刀。
And the name of the other was Eliezer, for he said, The God of my father was my help and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh.
18:5 摩西的岳父叶忒罗，带着摩西的妻子和两个儿子，来到神的山，就是摩西在旷野安营的地方。
So Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, came with his sons and his wife to Moses in the wilderness where he was encamped, at the mount of God.
18:6 他叫人告诉摩西说，我是你岳父叶忒罗，带着你的妻子和两个儿子来到你这里。
And he sent word to Moses: I, your father-in-law Jethro, am coming to you with your wife and her two sons with her.
18:7 摩西出去迎接他的岳父，向他下拜，与他亲嘴，彼此问安，然后都进了帐棚。
So Moses went out to meet his father-in-law and bowed down and kissed him; and each asked the other's welfare, and they came into the tent.
18:8 摩西将耶和华为以色列的缘故，向法老和埃及人所行的一切事，以及路上所遭遇的一切艰难，并耶和华怎样拯救他们，都述说与他岳父听。
74
And Moses told his father-in-law all that Jehovah had done to Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel's sake, all the hardship that had come upon them on the
way, and how Jehovah delivered them.
18:9 叶忒罗因耶和华待以色列的一切好处，就是拯救他们脱离埃及人的手，便甚欢喜。
And Jethro rejoiced for all the good which Jehovah had done to Israel, in that He had delivered them out of the hand of the Egyptians.
18:10 叶忒罗说，耶和华是当受颂赞的；祂拯救了你们脱离埃及人和法老的手，将这百姓从埃及人的手下拯救出来。
And Jethro said, Blessed be Jehovah, who has delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians and from the hand of Pharaoh, who has delivered the people from
under the hand of the Egyptians.
18:11 我现今在埃及人狂傲对待这百姓的事上得知，耶和华比众神都大。
Now I know that Jehovah is greater than all gods; indeed, it was proven when they dealt proudly against the people.
18:12 摩西的岳父叶忒罗把燔祭和平安祭献给神；亚伦和以色列的众长老都来了，与摩西的岳父在神面前吃饭。
Then Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, took a burnt offering and sacrifices for God, and Aaron came with all the elders of Israel to eat food with Moses' father- in-
law before God.
18:13 第二天，摩西坐着审判百姓，百姓从早到晚都站在摩西旁边。
And on the following day Moses sat to judge the people, and the people stood around Moses from the morning to the evening.
18:14 摩西的岳父看见他向百姓所作的一切事，就说，你这向百姓作的是什么事？你为什么独自坐着，众百姓从早到晚都站在你旁边？
And when Moses' father-in-law saw all that he was doing for the people, he said, What is this thing that you are doing for the people? Why do you sit by
yourself, and all the people stand around you from morning to evening?
18:15 摩西对他岳父说，这是因百姓到我这里来求问神。
Then Moses said to his father-in-law, Because the people come to me to inquire of God.
18:16 他们有争执的时候，案件到我这里来，我便在两造之间施行审判；我又叫他们知道神的律例和法度。
When they have a dispute, the matter comes to me; and I judge between a man and his neighbor, and I make known the statutes of God and His laws.
18:17 摩西的岳父说，你这作的不好。
And Moses' father-in-law said to him, The thing that you are doing is not good.
18:18 你和这些百姓必都疲惫；因为这事太重，你独自一人办理不了。
You will surely wear yourself out, both you and this people who are with you, for the thing is too heavy for you; you cannot do it by yourself.
18:19 现在你要听我的话；我为你出个主意，愿神与你同在。你要在神面前代表百姓，将案件带到神那里；
Listen now to my voice: I will give you counsel, and God be with you. You stand for the people before God, and you bring the matters to God.
18:20 又要将律例和法度教导他们，指示他们当行的路，当作的事。
And you shall teach them the statutes and the laws, and make known to them the way in which they should walk and the work that they should do.
18:21 你也要从众百姓中拣选有才能的人，就是敬畏神、诚实可信、恨不义之财的人，派他们作千夫长、百夫长、五十夫长和十夫长，管理百姓，
You also should look for able men among all the people who fear God, men of truth, who hate unjust gain; and place them over them, as leaders of thousands,
leaders of hundreds, leaders of fifties, and leaders of tens.
18:22 叫他们随时审判百姓；大事都要带到你这里，小事他们自己可以审判。这样，你就轻省些，他们也可以同担这担子。
And let them judge the people at all times; and let them bring every great matter to you, but every small matter let them judge themselves. So it will be easier for
you, and they will bear the burden with you.
18:23 你若这样行，神也这样吩咐你，你就能受得住，这百姓也都可以平平安安的归回他们的地方。
If you do this thing, and God so commands you, then you will be able to endure, and all these people also will go to their place in peace.
18:24 于是，摩西听从他岳父的话，按着他所说的而行。
So Moses listened to the voice of his father-in-law and did all that he had said.
18:25 摩西从以色列人中拣选了有才能的人，立他们为百姓的首领，作千夫长、百夫长、五十夫长和十夫长。
And Moses chose able men out of all Israel and made them heads over the people: leaders of thousands, leaders of hundreds, leaders of fifties, and leaders of
tens.
18:26 他们随时审判百姓，有难断的案件就带到摩西那里，但各样小事他们自己审判。
And they judged the people at all times; the hard cases they brought to Moses, but every small matter they judged themselves.
18:27 此后，摩西让他的岳父离去，他就往自己的地去了。
And Moses let his father-in-law depart, and he went his way to his own land.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 19 章
19:1 以色列人出埃及地以后，到了第三个月的那一天，来到西乃的旷野。
In the third month after the children of Israel had gone out of the land of Egypt, on that very day they came into the wilderness of Sinai.
19:2 他们从利非订起行，来到西乃的旷野，就在那里的山前安营。
And when they had journeyed from Rephidim and had come to the wilderness of Sinai, they encamped in the wilderness; and there Israel encamped in front of
the mountain.
19:3 摩西上到神那里，耶和华从山上呼唤他说，你要这样告诉雅各家，对以色列人说，
And Moses went up to God, and Jehovah called to him out of the mountain, saying, Thus you shall say to the house of Jacob and tell the children of Israel:
19:4 我向埃及人所行的事，你们都看见了，且看见我如鹰将你们背在翅膀上，带来归我。
You have seen what I did to the Egyptians and how I bore you on eagles' wings and brought you to Myself.
19:5 如今你们若实在听从我的话，遵守我的约，就要在万民中作我自己的珍宝，因为全地都是我的。
Now therefore, if you will indeed obey My voice and keep My covenant, then you shall be My personal treasure from among all peoples, for all the earth is Mine.
19:6 你们要归我作祭司的国度，为圣别的国民。这些话你要告诉以色列人。
And you shall be to Me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words that you shall speak to the children of Israel.
19:7 于是摩西去召了百姓的长老来，将耶和华所吩咐他的这些话，都陈明在他们面前。
So Moses came and called for the elders of the people and set before them all these words which Jehovah had commanded him.
19:8 百姓都同声回答说，凡耶和华所说的，我们必要行。摩西就将百姓的话回覆耶和华。
And all the people answered together and said, All that Jehovah has spoken we will do. And Moses brought back the words of the people to Jehovah.
75
19:9 耶和华对摩西说，我要在密云中临到你那里，叫百姓在我与你说话的时候可以听见，也可以永远信你了。于是摩西将百姓的话告诉耶和华。
And Jehovah said to Moses, I am coming to you in a thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with you and may also believe you forever. Then Moses
told the words of the people to Jehovah,
19:10 耶和华又对摩西说，你往百姓那里去，叫他们今天明天分别为圣，又叫他们洗净自己的衣服。
And Jehovah said to Moses, Go to the people, and sanctify them today and tomorrow; and have them wash their garments,
19:11 到第三天要预备好了，因为第三天耶和华要在众百姓眼前降临在西乃山上。
And be ready for the third day; for the third day Jehovah will come down on Mount Sinai in the sight of all the people.
19:12 你要在山的四围给百姓定界限，说，你们当谨慎，不可上山去，也不可触着山的边界；凡触着这山的，必被处死。
And you shall set limits for the people all around, saying, Be careful that you do not go up on the mountain or touch the border of it. Whoever touches the
mountain shall surely be put to death.
19:13 不可用手触着他，必用石头打死，或用箭射透；无论是走兽是人，都不得活。到角声拖长的时候，他们才可以到山上来。
No hand shall touch him, but he shall surely be stoned or shot through; whether beast or man, he shall not live. When the trumpet sounds a long blast, they shall
come up to the mountain.
19:14 摩西下山往百姓那里去，叫他们分别为圣，他们也洗净自己的衣服。
And Moses went down from the mountain to the people and sanctified the people, and they washed their garments.
19:15 他对百姓说，到第三天要预备好了。不可亲近女人。
And he said to the people, Be ready for the third day. Do not go near a woman.
19:16 到第三天早晨，在山上有雷轰、闪电和密云，并且角声甚大，营中的百姓尽都颤抖。
And on the third day, when it was morning, there was thunder and lightning, and a thick cloud upon the mountain, and a very loud trumpet sound; and all the
people who were in the camp trembled.
19:17 摩西带着百姓出营迎接神，他们都站在山下。
And Moses brought the people out of the camp to meet God, and they stood at the base of the mountain.
19:18 西乃全山冒烟，因为耶和华在火中降在山上。山的烟气上腾，如同烧窑的烟气一般；遍山大大的震动。
Now the whole of Mount Sinai smoked because Jehovah descended upon it in fire, and its smoke ascended like the smoke of a furnace; and the whole mountain
shook greatly.
19:19 角声越来越强，摩西就说话，神发声回答他。
And as the sound of the trumpet grew louder and louder, Moses spoke and God answered him in a voice.
19:20 耶和华降临在西乃山顶上，耶和华召摩西上山顶，摩西就上去。
And Jehovah came down upon Mount Sinai at the top of the mountain, and Jehovah called Moses to the top of the mountain; and Moses went up.
19:21 耶和华对摩西说，你下去嘱咐百姓，不可闯过来到耶和华这里观看，免得他们多人倒毙；
Then Jehovah said to Moses, Go down; charge the people not to break through to Jehovah to look, lest many of them perish.
19:22 又叫亲近耶和华的祭司将自己分别为圣，恐怕耶和华忽然出来击杀他们。
And let the priests who come near to Jehovah also sanctify themselves, so that Jehovah does not break forth upon them.
19:23 摩西对耶和华说，百姓不能上西乃山，因为你已经嘱咐我们说，要在山的四围定界限，将山分别为圣。
And Moses said to Jehovah, The people cannot come up to Mount Sinai, for You charged us, saying, Set limits around the mountain, and sanctify it.
19:24 耶和华对他说，下去罢；你要再和亚伦一同上来；只是不可让祭司和百姓闯过来，上到耶和华这里，恐怕耶和华忽然出来击杀他们。
And Jehovah said to him, Go, get down; then you shall come up again, you and Aaron with you; but do not let the priests and the people force a way through to
come up to Jehovah, so that He does not break forth upon them.
19:25 于是摩西下到百姓那里告诉他们。
So Moses went down to the people and told them.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 20 章
20:1 神吩咐这一切的话说，
And God spoke all these words, saying,
20:2 我是耶和华你的神，曾将你从埃及地，从为奴之家领出来。
I am Jehovah your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the slave house;
20:3 除我以外，你不可有别的神。
You shall have no other gods before Me.
20:4 不可为自己雕制偶像，也不可雕制任何上天、下地、和地底下水中之物的像。
You shall not make for yourself an idol, nor the form of anything that is in heaven above or on the earth beneath or in the water beneath the earth.
20:5 不可跪拜那些像，也不可事奉它们；因为我耶和华你的神是忌邪的神；恨我的，我必追讨他的罪孽，自父及子，直到三四代；
You shall not bow down to them, and you shall not serve them; for I, Jehovah your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, to
the third and fourth generations of those who hate Me,
20:6 爱我、守我诫命的，我必向他们施慈爱，直到千代。
Yet showing lovingkindness to thousands of generations of those who love Me and keep My commandments.
20:7 不可妄称耶和华你神的名；因为妄称耶和华名的，耶和华必不以他为无罪。
You shall not take the name of Jehovah your God in vain, for Jehovah will not hold guiltless him who takes His name in vain.
20:8 当记念安息日，将这日分别为圣。
Remember the Sabbath day so as to sanctify it.
20:9 六日要劳碌作你一切的工，
Six days you shall labor and do all your work,
20:10 但第七日是向耶和华你神当守的安息日；这一日你和你的儿子、女儿、仆人、婢女、牲畜、并你城里的寄居者，无论何工都不可作；
But the seventh day is a Sabbath to Jehovah your God; you shall not do any work, you nor your son nor your daughter, your male servant nor your female servant,
nor your cattle nor the sojourner with you, who is within your gates.
20:11 因为六日之内，耶和华造天、地、海、和其中的万物，第七日便安息了；所以耶和华赐福与安息日，将这日分别为圣。
76
For in six days Jehovah made heaven and earth, the sea and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day; therefore Jehovah blessed the Sabbath day and
sanctified it.
20:12 当孝敬父母，使你的日子在耶和华你神所赐你的地上，得以长久。
Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be extended upon the land which Jehovah your God is giving you.
20:13 不可杀人。
You shall not kill.
20:14 不可奸淫。
You shall not commit adultery.
20:15 不可偷盗。
You shall not steal.
20:16 不可作假见证陷害邻舍。
You shall not testify with false testimony against your neighbor.
20:17 不可贪爱邻舍的房屋；也不可贪爱邻舍的妻子、仆人、婢女、牛、驴、并他一切所有的。
You shall not covet your neighbor's house; you shall not covet your neighbor's wife, nor his male servant, nor his female servant, nor his ox, nor his donkey, nor
anything that belongs to your neighbor.
20:18 众百姓看见雷轰、闪电、角声、山上冒烟，就都颤抖，远远的站着，
And all the people saw the thunder and the flashes of lightning and the sound of the trumpet and the mountain smoking; and when the people saw it, they
trembled and stood at a distance.
20:19 对摩西说，求你和我们说话，我们必听；但不要神和我们说话，免得我们死亡。
And they said to Moses, You speak with us, and we will listen; but do not let God speak with us, so we do not die.
20:20 摩西对百姓说，不要惧怕；因为神来临是要试验你们，又叫你们时常敬畏祂，不至犯罪。
And Moses said to the people, Do not be afraid; for God has come in order to test you, and in order that the fear of Him may be before you, so that you do not sin.
20:21 于是百姓远远的站着，摩西就挨近神所在的幽暗。
And the people stood at a distance, and Moses drew near to the deep darkness where God was.
20:22 耶和华对摩西说，你要向以色列人这样说，你们自己看见我从天上和你们说话了。
And Jehovah said to Moses, Thus shall you say to the children of Israel, You yourselves have seen that I have spoken to you from heaven.
20:23 你们不可作什么神像与我相配，不可为自己制造银或金的神像。
You shall not make other gods besides Me; gods of silver or gods of gold, you shall not make for yourselves.
20:24 你要为我筑土坛，在上面献牛羊为燔祭和平安祭；在我使人记念我名的各地方，我必到你那里赐福给你。
An altar of earth you shall make for Me, and shall sacrifice on it your burnt offerings and your peace offerings, your sheep and your oxen; in every place where I
cause My name to be remembered, I will come to you and bless you.
20:25 你若为我筑石坛，不可用凿成的石头，因你在上头一动刀斧，就把坛污秽了。
And if you make Me an altar of stone, you shall not build it of hewn stones; for if you lift up your tool upon it, you have polluted it.
20:26 你上我的坛，不可用台阶，免得在上头露出你的下体。
Neither shall you go up by steps to My altar, so that your nakedness may not be uncovered on it.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 21 章
21:1 你在百姓面前所要立的典章是这样：
Now these are the ordinances which you shall set before them.
21:2 你若买希伯来人作奴仆，他要服事你六年，第七年他可以自由，白白的出去。
If you buy a Hebrew servant, he shall serve six years; but in the seventh he shall go out free without payment to you.
21:3 他若单身进来，就可以单身出去；他若有妻子，他的妻子就可以同他出去。
If he came in by himself, he shall go out by himself; if he is the husband of a wife, then his wife shall go out with him.
21:4 他主人若给他妻子，妻子给他生了儿子或女儿，妻子和儿女就要归与主人，他要独自出去。
If his master gives him a wife and she bears him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her master's, and he shall go out by himself.
21:5 倘若奴仆明说，我爱我的主人和我的妻子儿女，不愿意自由出去；
But if the servant plainly says, I love my master, my wife, and my children; I will not go out free;
21:6 他的主人就要带他到审判官那里，又要带他到门或门框那里，用锥子穿他的耳朵，他就永远服事主人。
Then his master shall bring him to God and shall bring him to the door or to the doorpost, and his master shall bore his ear through with an awl; and he shall
serve him forever.
21:7 人若卖女儿作婢女，婢女不可像男仆那样出去。
And if a man sells his daughter as a female servant, she shall not go out as the male servants do.
21:8 主人若选定她归自己，后来不喜欢她，就要让她赎身；主人既然待她不忠实，就没有权把她卖给外族人。
If she displeases her master, who has designated her for himself, then he shall let her be redeemed; he has no right to sell her to a foreign people, because he
has dealt with her unfaithfully.
21:9 主人若选定她给自己的儿子，就当照着待女儿的规矩待她。
And if he designated her for his son, he shall deal with her according to the custom of daughters.
21:10 主人若另娶一个女子，原先女子的饮食、衣服、并好合的事，仍不可减少。
If he take another woman for himself, he shall not diminish her food, her clothing, or her marital rights.
21:11 若不向她行这三样，她就可以不用钱赎，白白的出去。
And if he does not do these three things for her, then shall she go out for nothing, without payment of silver.
21:12 打人以致打死的，必要被处死。
He who strikes a man so that he dies shall surely be put to death.
21:13 他若不是埋伏着杀人，乃是神许可那人落在他手中，我就给你设下一个地方，使他可以逃往那里。
But if he did not lie in wait for him, but God allowed him to fall into his hand, then I will appoint you a place where he may flee to.
77
21:14 人若任意待邻舍，用诡计把他杀了，事后就是逃到我的坛那里，也当把他捉去处死。
And if a man acts presumptuously toward his neighbor, so as to slay him with guile, you shall take him even from My altar so that he may die.
21:15 打父母的，必要被处死。
And he who strikes his father or his mother shall surely be put to death.
21:16 拐带人口的，无论是把人卖了，或是留在他自己手下，必要被处死。
And he who kidnaps a man, whether he sells him or he is found in his possession, shall surely be put to death.
21:17 咒骂父母的，必要被处死。
And he who curses his father or his mother shall surely be put to death.
21:18 人若彼此争闹，这个用石头或拳头打那个，被打的并没有死，不过躺卧在床，
And if men contend and one strikes the other with a stone or with his fist so that he does not die but remains in bed;
21:19 以后若能起来扶杖出外走动，那打他的可算无罪；但要赔偿他损失的时间，并要将他全然医好。
If he can rise up and walk around outside on his staff, then he who struck him shall be guiltless; he shall only pay for the loss of his time, until he has made sure
he is completely healed.
21:20 人若用棍子打奴仆或婢女，以致仆婢死在他手下，他必要受刑罚。
And if a man strikes his male servant or his female servant with a rod, and the servant dies under his hand, he shall surely be punished.
21:21 仆婢若过一两天才死，他就可以不受刑罚，因为是用钱买的。
But if he survives a day or two, he shall not be punished; for he is his prop- erty.
21:22 人若彼此争斗，伤害了有孕的妇人，以致坠胎，却无别害，那伤害她的，总要按妇人的丈夫所要的，照审判官所断的付罚款。
And if men struggle together, and they hit a pregnant woman, so that she has a miscarriage, but there is no further mishap, he shall surely be fined what the
woman's husband shall impose upon him, and he shall pay as the judges determine.
21:23 若有别害，就要以命偿命，
But if there is further mishap, then you shall give a life for a life,
21:24 以眼还眼，以牙还牙，以手还手，以脚还脚，
An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a hand for a hand, a foot for a foot,
21:25 以烙还烙，以伤还伤，以打还打。
A burning for a burning, a wound for a wound, a stripe for a stripe.
21:26 人若打坏了他奴仆或婢女的一只眼，就要因他的眼让他自由离去。
And if a man strikes the eye of his male servant or the eye of his female servant and destroys it, he shall let that one go free on account of that one's eye.
21:27 若打掉了他奴仆或婢女的一只牙，就要因他的牙让他自由离去。
And if he knocks out his male servant's tooth or his female servant's tooth, he shall let that one go free on account of that one's tooth.
21:28 牛若触死男人或女人，总要用石头打死那牛，却不可吃它的肉；牛的主人可算无罪。
And if an ox gores a man or a woman to death, the ox shall surely be stoned, and its flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner of the ox shall be guiltless.
21:29 倘若那牛素来是触人的，牛主受过警告，却不把牛拴住，以致牛把男人或女人触死，那牛就要用石头打死，牛主也要处死。
But if the ox was accustomed to goring previously, and its owner had been warned, but he would not keep it in, and it killed a man or a woman, the ox shall be
stoned, and its owner shall also be put to death.
21:30 若罚牛主赎命的价银，他必照所罚的赎他的命。
If a ransom is imposed on the owner, then he shall give for the redemption of his life whatever is imposed upon him.
21:31 牛无论触了人的儿子或女儿，必照这例办理。
If either it gores a son or it gores a daughter, according to this judgment it shall be done to him.
21:32 牛若触了奴仆或婢女，必将银子三十舍客勒给他们的主人，也要用石头把牛打死。
If the ox gores a male servant or a female servant, thirty shekels of silver shall be given to their master, and the ox shall be stoned.
21:33 人若敞着井口，或挖井不遮盖，有牛或驴掉在里头，
And if a man opens a pit or if a man digs a pit and does not cover it, and an ox or a donkey falls into it,
21:34 井主要拿钱赔还牲畜的主人，死牲畜要归自己。
The owner of the pit shall make restitution; he shall give silver to its owner, and the dead animal shall be his.
21:35 人的牛若伤了别人的牛，以至于死，他们要卖了活牛，平分价银，也要平分死牛。
And if one man's ox injures another's so that it dies, then they shall sell the live ox and divide its price; and they shall also divide the dead animal.
21:36 人若知道这牛素来是触人的，牛主竟不把牛拴住，他就必要赔偿，以牛还牛，死牛要归自己。
Or if it is known that the ox was accustomed to goring previously and its owner would not keep it in, he shall surely give restitution, an ox for an ox, and the dead
animal shall become his.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 22 章
22:1 人若偷牛或羊，无论是宰了，是卖了，他就要以五牛赔一牛，四羊赔一羊。
If a man steals an ox or a sheep and slaughters it or sells it, he shall restore five oxen for an ox and four sheep for a sheep.
22:2 人若遇见贼挖洞入屋，把贼打了，以致打死，就不必为他有流血的罪；
If the thief is found breaking in and is struck so that he dies, there shall be no bloodguiltiness for him;
22:3 若太阳已经出来，就为他有流血的罪。贼若被拿，总要赔还；他若一无所有，就要被卖，顶他所偷的。
Unless the sun has risen upon him, then there shall be bloodguiltiness for him. He shall indeed make restitution; if he has nothing, then he shall be sold for his
theft.
22:4 他所偷的，无论是牛，是驴，或是羊，若发现仍在他手下活着，他就要加倍赔还。
If what he has stolen is actually found alive in his possession, whether an ox or a donkey or a sheep, he shall restore double.
22:5 人若在田间或在葡萄园里放牲畜，任凭牲畜上别人的田里去吃，就必拿自己田间上好的，和葡萄园里上好的赔还。
If a man lets a field or vineyard be grazed, that is, he lets his animal loose, and it grazes in another man's field; from the best of his own field and from the best of
his own vineyard he shall make restitution.
22:6 若点火焚烧荆棘，以致将别人堆积的禾捆、站着的禾稼、或田间所长的，都烧尽了，那点火的必要赔还。
78
If fire breaks out and catches in thorns so that the stacked grain or the standing grain or what is growing in the field is consumed, he who started the fire shall
surely make restitution.
22:7 人若将银钱或物件交付邻舍保管，这银钱或物件从那人的家被偷去，若把贼找到了，贼要加倍赔还；
If a man gives to his neighbor silver or goods to keep, and it is stolen out of the man's house, if the thief is found, he shall restore double.
22:8 若找不到贼，那家主要就近审判官，查明他下手拿了原主的财物没有。
If the thief is not found, then the owner of the house shall come near to God to determine whether or not he laid his hand on his neighbor's goods.
22:9 两个人的案件，无论是为什么过犯，或是为牛，为驴，为羊，为衣裳，或是为什么失掉之物，有一人说，这是我的，两造的案件就要呈到审判官面前，
审判官定谁有罪，谁就要加倍赔还他的邻舍。
For every case of transgression, whether concerning an ox, concerning a donkey, concerning a sheep, concerning clothing, or concerning any lost item about
which one says, This is it, the case of both parties shall come before God; he whom God declares guilty shall restore double to his neighbor.
22:10 人若将驴，或牛，或羊，或别的牲畜，交付邻舍看守，牲畜或死，或受伤，或被抢走，无人看见，
If a man gives to his neighbor a donkey or an ox or a sheep or any animal to keep, and it dies or is injured or driven away, with no man seeing it;
22:11 那看守的人要在本主面前凭着耶和华起誓，他未曾下手拿邻舍的物；本主就要接受誓言，看守的人不必赔还。
The oath of Jehovah shall be between them both, that he has not laid his hand on his neighbor's goods; and its owner shall accept it, and he shall not make
restitution.
22:12 牲畜若真的是从看守的人那里被偷去，他就要赔还本主；
But if it was certainly stolen from him, he shall make restitution to its owner.
22:13 若被野兽撕碎，看守的人要带来当作证据，所撕的不必赔还。
If it was torn in pieces, let him bring it as evidence; he shall not make restitution for that which was torn.
22:14 人若向邻舍借什么，所借的或受伤，或死了，本主没有同在一处，借的人总要赔还；
And if a man borrows anything from his neighbor, and it is injured or dies while its owner is not with it, he shall make full restitution.
22:15 若本主同在一处，他就不必赔还；若是雇的，他只要付雇价。
If its owner was with it, he shall not make restitution; if it was hired, only the hiring fee is due.
22:16 人若引诱没有受聘的处女，与她同寝，他总要交出聘礼，娶她为妻。
And if a man seduces a virgin who is not engaged and lies with her, he shall surely pay a dowry for her to become his wife.
22:17 若女子的父亲决不肯将女子给他，他就要按处女的聘礼，交出银钱。
If her father utterly refuses to give her to him, he shall pay silver according to the dowry of virgins.
22:18 行邪术的女人，不可容她存活。
You shall not allow a sorceress to live.
22:19 凡与兽淫合的，必要被处死。
Whoever lies with an animal shall surely be put to death.
22:20 献祭给别神，不单单献祭给耶和华的，那人必要被灭绝。
He who sacrifices to any god, except to Jehovah only, shall be devoted to destruction.
22:21 不可亏负寄居的，也不可欺压他，因为你们在埃及地也作过寄居的。
And you shall not wrong a sojourner, nor shall you oppress him; for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt.
22:22 不可苦待寡妇和孤儿；
You shall not afflict any widow or orphan.
22:23 若是苦待他们一点，他们向我一哀求，我总要听他们的哀声，
If you afflict them at all and if they cry at all to Me, I will surely hear their cry;
22:24 并要发烈怒，用刀杀你们，使你们的妻子为寡妇，儿女为孤儿。
And My anger will be kindled, and I will kill you with the sword; and your wives shall be widows, and your children orphans.
22:25 我民中有贫穷人与你同住，你若借银钱给他，不可如放债的向他取利息。
If you lend silver to My people, to the poor among you, you shall not be to him as a creditor; you shall not charge him interest.
22:26 你即使拿邻舍的衣服作抵押，也要在日落以前归还他，
If you ever take your neighbor's garment as a pledge, you shall return it to him before the sun goes down.
22:27 因为这是他惟一的遮盖之物，是他盖身的衣服；若是没有，他拿什么睡觉呢？他哀求我，我就应允，因为我是有恩惠的。
For that is his only covering; it is his garment for his skin. On what shall he lie down? And when he cries to Me I will hear, for I am gracious.
22:28 不可辱骂神，也不可毁谤你百姓的官长。
You shall not revile God, nor curse a ruler of your people.
22:29 你要把你庄稼中丰收的谷物，和酒醡中滴出来的酒，拿来献上，不可迟延。你要将头生的儿子归给我。
You shall not delay to offer the fullness of your harvest and of the outflow of your presses. The firstborn of your sons you shall give to Me.
22:30 你牛羊头生的，也要这样；七天当跟着母，第八天要归给我。
You shall do the same with your oxen and with your sheep. Seven days it shall be with its mother; on the eighth day you shall give it to Me.
22:31 你要作圣别归我的人。因此，田间被野兽撕裂牲畜的肉，你们不可吃，要丢给狗吃。
And you shall be holy men to Me. And you shall not eat any flesh that is torn by beasts in the field; you shall throw it to the dogs.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 23 章
23:1 不可传播谣言；不可与恶人连手作恶毒的见证人。
You shall not bear a false report; do not join your hand with a wicked man to be a malicious witness.
23:2 不可随众行恶；不可在争讼的事上随众偏行，作见证屈枉公理；
You shall not follow a multitude to do evil, nor shall you testify in a dispute to turn aside after a multitude to pervert justice ,
23:3 也不可在争讼的事上偏护穷人。
Nor shall you be partial to a poor man in his dispute.
23:4 若遇见你仇敌的牛或驴失迷了路，总要牵回来交给他。
If you come upon your enemy's ox or his donkey going astray, you shall surely bring it back to him.
79
23:5 若看见恨你之人的驴压卧在重驮之下，不可离他不顾，务要和他一同抬开重驮。
If you see the donkey of one who hates you lying down under its burden, you shall refrain from leaving it to him; you shall surely release it with him.
23:6 不可在穷人争讼的事上屈枉公理。
You shall not pervert the justice due to your needy in his dispute.
23:7 当远避虚假的指控，不可杀无辜和有义的人，因我必不以恶人为义。
Keep far away from a false charge, and do not kill the innocent and righteous; for I will not justify the wicked man.
23:8 不可受贿赂，因为贿赂能叫明眼人变瞎了，又能颠倒义人的话。
And you shall not take a bribe, for a bribe blinds those whose eyes are open and perverts the words of the righteous.
23:9 不可欺压寄居的，因为你们在埃及地作过寄居的，知道寄居者的心情。
And you shall not oppress a sojourner, for you know the feelings of a sojourner, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt.
23:10 六年你要种地，收藏地的出产，
And six years you shall sow your land and gather its produce;
23:11 只是第七年要让地歇息，不耕不种，使你民中的穷人有吃的；他们所剩下的，田野的兽可以吃。你的葡萄园和橄榄园，也要照样办理。
But the seventh year you shall let it rest and lie fallow, so that the needy of your people may eat, and what they leave, the animals of the field may eat. You are to
do the same with your vineyard and with your olivegrove.
23:12 六日你要作工，第七日要停工，使牛、驴可以歇息，并使你婢女的儿子和寄居的，都得以舒畅。
Six days you shall do your work, and on the seventh day you shall cease from work so that your ox and your donkey may have rest, and the son of your female
servant and the sojourner may be refreshed.
23:13 凡我对你们说的话，你们要谨守；别神的名，你不可题说，也不可叫人从你口中听到。
Now concerning everything which I have said to you, take heed to yourselves; and do not mention the name of other gods, nor let their name be heard out of
your mouth.
23:14 一年三次，你要向我守节。
Three times a year you shall hold a feast to Me.
23:15 你要守除酵节，照我所吩咐你的，在亚笔月内所定的日期，吃无酵饼七天，因为你是在这月出埃及的。谁也不可空手朝见我。
You shall keep the Feast of Unleavened Bread; as I commanded you, seven days you shall eat unleavened bread at the appointed time in the month of Abib, for
in it you came out from Egypt. And no one shall appear before Me empty.
23:16 又要守收割节，所收割的是你田间所种、劳碌得来的初熟之物；也要在年底从田里收藏你劳碌得来之物时，守收藏节。
And you shall keep the Feast of the Harvest, of the firstfruits of your labors from what you sow in the field, and the Feast of Ingathering, at the end of the year
when you gather in your labors out of the field.
23:17 你所有的男丁，要一年三次朝见主耶和华。
Three times a year all your males shall appear before the Lord Jehovah.
23:18 不可将我祭牲的血与有酵的物一同献上；也不可将我节期祭牲的脂油留到早晨。
You shall not offer the blood of My sacrifice with anything leavened, nor shall the fat of My feast remain all night until the morning.
23:19 地里首先初熟之物，要带到耶和华你神的殿中。不可用山羊羔母的奶煮山羊羔。
The first of the firstfruits of your ground you shall bring into the house of Jehovah your God. You shall not boil a kid in its mother's milk.
23:20 看哪，我差遣使者在你前面，在路上保护你，领你到我所预备的地方去。
I am now sending an Angel before you to keep you in the way and to bring you into the place which I have prepared.
23:21 你要在祂面前谨慎，听从祂的话；不可违背祂，因祂必不赦免你们的过犯；因为我的名在祂里面。
Be careful before Him, and listen to His voice; do not rebel against Him, for He will not pardon your transgression; for My name is in Him.
23:22 你若实在听从祂的话，照着我一切所说的去行，我就向你的仇敌作仇敌，向你的对头作对头。
But if you will indeed listen to His voice and do all that I speak, then I will be an enemy to your enemies and an adversary to your adversaries.
23:23 我的使者要在你前面行，领你到亚摩利人、赫人、比利洗人、迦南人、希未人、耶布斯人那里去，我必将他们剪除。
For My Angel will go before you and bring you to the Amorites and the Hittites and the Perizzites and the Canaanites, the Hivites and the Jebusites; and I will cut
them off.
23:24 他们的神像，你不可跪拜，不可事奉，也不可效法他们所作的；却要把神像尽行拆毁，把他们的柱像打碎。
You shall not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor do according to their works; but you shall utterly overthrow them and break their pillars into pieces.
23:25 你们要事奉耶和华你们的神，祂必赐福与你的粮和你的水，也必从你们中间除去疾病。
And you shall serve Jehovah your God, and He will bless your bread and your water; and I will take sickness away from your midst.
23:26 你境内必没有坠胎的，不生育的；我要使你满了你年日的数目。
No one shall miscarry or be barren in your land; I will fulfill the number of your days.
23:27 你所要敌挡的众民，我要使他们在你面前惊骇、溃乱；又要使你一切的仇敌，转背逃跑。
I will send My terror before you and will throw into confusion all the people to whom you will come, and I will make all your enemies turn their backs to you.
23:28 我要打发大黄蜂在你前面，把希未人、迦南人、赫人从你面前撵出去。
And I will send hornets before you, which shall drive out the Hivites, the Canaanites, and the Hittites from before you.
23:29 我不在一年之内将他们从你面前撵出去，免得地变荒凉，田野的兽多起来害你。
I will not drive them out from before you in one year, lest the land become desolate and the animals of the field multiply against you.
23:30 我要渐渐的将他们从你面前撵出去，直等你繁衍加多，承受那地为业。
Little by little I will drive them out from before you, until you have become fruitful and inherit the land.
23:31 我要定你的境界，从红海直到非利士海，又从旷野直到大河；我要将那地的居民交在你手中，你要将他们从你面前撵出去。
And I will set your border from the Red Sea even to the sea of the Philistines, and from the wilderness to the River; for I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into
your hand, and you shall drive them out from before you.
23:32 不可和他们并他们的神立约。
You shall make no covenant with them or with their gods.
23:33 他们不可住在你的地上，恐怕他们使你得罪我；你若事奉他们的神，这必成为你的网罗。
They shall not dwell in your land, lest they make you sin against Me; for if you serve their gods, it will surely be a snare to you.
80
出埃及记 Exodus 第 24 章
24:1 耶和华对摩西说，你和亚伦、拿答和亚比户，并以色列长老中的七十人，都要上到耶和华这里来，远远的敬拜。
Then He said to Moses, Come up to Jehovah, you and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel; and worship at a distance.
24:2 惟独摩西可以亲近耶和华，他们却不可亲近；百姓也不可和他一同上来。
And Moses alone shall come near to Jehovah, but they shall not come near, nor shall the people come up with him.
24:3 摩西来将耶和华一切的话语、典章，都述说与百姓听；众百姓齐声回答说，凡耶和华所说的话，我们必要行。
And Moses came and told the people all the words of Jehovah and all the ordinances; and all the people answered with one voice and said, All the words which
Jehovah has spoken we will do.
24:4 摩西将耶和华的话都写下；他清早起来，在山下筑了一座坛，并按以色列十二支派，立了十二根柱子；
And Moses wrote down all the words of Jehovah, and he rose up early in the morning and built an altar at the base of the mountain and twelve pillars for the
twelve tribes of Israel.
24:5 又打发以色列人中的少年人去献燔祭，又向耶和华献牛为平安祭。
And he sent young men of the children of Israel, who offered burnt offerings and sacrificed peace offerings of bulls to Jehovah.
24:6 摩西将血一半盛在盆中，一半洒在坛上。
And Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins, and half of the blood he sprinkled on the altar.
24:7 又将约书念给百姓听；他们说，凡耶和华所说的，我们必要行，也必听从。
And he took the book of the covenant and read it in the hearing of the people; and they said, All that Jehovah has spoken we will do, and we will be obedient.
24:8 摩西将血洒在百姓身上，说，看哪，这是耶和华按这一切话与你们所立之约的血。
So Moses took the blood and sprinkled it on the people and said, Here is the blood of the covenant, which Jehovah has made with you in accordance with all
these words.
24:9 随后摩西和亚伦、拿答和亚比户，并以色列长老中的七十人，都上了山。
Then Moses and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel went up.
24:10 他们看见以色列的神，祂脚下仿佛有平铺的蓝宝石，像天本身一样明净。
And they saw the God of Israel, and under His feet there was something like a paved work of sapphire, even like heaven itself for clearness.
24:11 祂不伸手加害以色列人的尊贵者。他们观看神，并且又吃又喝。
And He did not stretch out His hand upon the nobles of the children of Israel. And they beheld God and ate and drank.
24:12 耶和华对摩西说，你上山顶到我这里来，留在这里；我要将石版，版上有我所写的律法和诫命，赐给你，使你可以教导百姓。
And Jehovah said to Moses, Come up to Me at the top of the mountain, and be there; and I will give you the tablets of stone with the law and the commandment,
which I have written for their instruction.
24:13 摩西和他的帮手约书亚起来；摩西上神的山去。
And Moses rose up with Joshua his attendant, and Moses went up to the top of the mountain of God.
24:14 摩西对长老说，你们在这里等着，等到我们回来。有亚伦、户珥与你们同在；凡有争讼的，可以就近他们去。
And he had said to the elders, Wait here for us until we return to you. Both Aaron and Hur are here with you; whoever has a cause, let him come near to them.
24:15 摩西上山，有云彩把山遮盖。
And Moses went up to the top of the mountain, and the cloud covered the mountain.
24:16 耶和华的荣耀停在西乃山上；云彩遮盖山六天，第七天祂从云中呼召摩西。
And the glory of Jehovah settled on Mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days; and on the seventh day He called to Moses out of the midst of the cloud.
24:17 耶和华的荣耀在山顶上，在以色列人眼前，显出来的样子好像烈火。
And the appearance of the glory of Jehovah was like consuming fire on the top of the mountain to the eyes of the children of Israel.
24:18 摩西进入云中上了山，在山上四十昼四十夜。
And Moses entered into the midst of the cloud and went up on the mountain; and Moses was on the mountain forty days and forty nights.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 25 章
25:1 耶和华告诉摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
25:2 你吩咐以色列人，当为我拿举祭来；凡甘心乐意的，你们就可以从他收下归我。
Tell the children of Israel to take for Me a heave offering. From every man whose heart makes him willing you shall take My heave offering.
25:3 你向他们所要收的举祭，就是金、银、铜，
And this is the heave offering which you shall take from them: gold and silver and bronze,
25:4 蓝色、紫色、朱红色线，细麻，山羊毛，
And blue and purple and scarlet strands, and fine linen, and goats' hair,
25:5 染红的公羊皮，海狗皮，皂荚木，
And rams' skins dyed red, and porpoise skins, and acacia wood,
25:6 点灯的油，并作膏油和作馨香之香的香料，
Oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil and for the fragrant incense,
25:7 红玛瑙与别样的宝石，可以镶嵌在以弗得和胸牌上。
Onyx stones and stones to be set for the ephod and for the breastplate.
25:8 他们当为我造圣所，使我可以住在他们中间。
And let them make a sanctuary for Me that I may dwell in their midst.
25:9 制造帐幕和其中的一切器具，都要照我所指示你的样式。
According to all that I show you, the pattern of the tabernacle and the pattern of all its utensils, even so you shall make it.
25:10 要用皂荚木作一个柜，长二肘半，宽一肘半，高一肘半。
And they shall make an ark of acacia wood: two and a half cubits shall be its length; and one and a half cubits, its width; and one and a half cubits, its height.
81
25:11 你要把柜里外包上纯金，四围镶上金牙边。
And you shall overlay it with pure gold; inside and outside you shall overlay it; and you shall make a rim of gold upon it all around.
25:12 也要铸四个金环，安在柜的四脚上；这边两环，那边两环。
And you shall cast four rings of gold for it, and put them on its four feet; and two rings shall be on one side of it, and two rings on the other side of it.
25:13 要用皂荚木作两根杠，用金包裹。
And you shall make poles of acacia wood and overlay them with gold.
25:14 要把杠穿在柜旁的环内，用以抬柜。
And you shall put the poles into the rings on the sides of the ark to carry the ark with them.
25:15 杠要常在柜的环内，不可抽出来。
The poles shall be in the rings of the ark; they shall not be taken from it.
25:16 必将我所要赐给你的见证版，放在柜里。
And you shall put into the ark the testimony which I shall give you.
25:17 要用纯金作遮罪盖，长二肘半，宽一肘半。
And you shall make an expiation cover of pure gold: two and a half cubits shall be its length, and one and a half cubits, its width.
25:18 要用金子锤出两个基路伯，安在遮罪盖的两端。
And you shall make two cherubim of gold; of beaten work you shall make them, at the two ends of the expiation cover.
25:19 这端作一个基路伯，那端作一个基路伯，两端的基路伯要与遮罪盖接连一块。
And make one cherub at one end and one cherub at the other end; of one piece with the expiation cover you shall make the cherubim on its two ends.
25:20 两个基路伯要在盖上展开翅膀，遮掩遮罪盖；基路伯要脸对脸，朝着遮罪盖。
And the cherubim shall spread out their wings above the cover, covering the expiation cover with their wings, with their faces toward one another; the faces of the
cherubim shall be toward the expiation cover.
25:21 要将遮罪盖安在柜的上边，又将我所要赐给你的见证版放在柜里。
And you shall put the expiation cover on top of the Ark, and into the Ark you shall put the testimony that I shall give you.
25:22 我要在那里与你相会，又要从见证的柜遮罪盖上两个基路伯中间，和你说我所要吩咐你传给以色列人的一切事。
And there I will meet with you, and I will speak with you from above the expiation cover, from between the two cherubim which are upon the Ark of the Testimony,
of everything which I will give you in commandment to the children of Israel.
25:23 你要用皂荚木作一张桌子，长二肘，宽一肘，高一肘半。
And you shall make a table of acacia wood: two cubits shall be its length, and a cubit its width, and one and a half cubits its height.
25:24 要包上纯金，四围镶上金牙边。
And you shall overlay it with pure gold and make a rim of gold around it.
25:25 桌子的四围，要作一掌宽的框子，框子的四围镶着金牙边。
And you shall make a frame of a handbreadth around it; and you shall make a rim of gold for its frame around it.
25:26 要作四个金环，安在桌子四个脚的四角上。
And you shall make for it four rings of gold and put the rings on the four corners that are on its four feet.
25:27 环子要靠近框子，可以穿杠抬桌子。
The rings shall be close to the frame as holders for the poles to carry the table.
25:28 要用皂荚木作两根杠，用金包裹，以便抬桌子。
And you shall make the poles of acacia wood and overlay them with gold, and the table shall be carried with them.
25:29 要作桌子上的盘子、调羹、并奠酒的壶和杯；这些都要用纯金制作。
And you shall make its plates and its spoons and its pitchers and its bowls with which to pour out drink offerings; of pure gold you shall make them.
25:30 又要在桌子上，在我面前，常摆陈设饼。
And you shall set the bread of the Presence upon the table before Me always.
25:31 要用纯金作一个灯台。灯台的座和干，与杯、花萼、花苞，都要接连一块锤出来。
And you shall make a lampstand of pure gold. The lampstand with its base and its shaft shall be made of beaten work; its cups, its calyxes, and its blossom buds
shall be of one piece with it.
25:32 灯台两边要杈出六个枝子，这边三个，那边三个。
And there shall be six branches going out of its sides; three branches of the lampstand out of one of its sides, and three branches of the lampstand out of its
other side;
25:33 这边每枝上有三个杯，形状像杏花，有花萼，有花苞；那边每枝上也有三个杯，形状像杏花，有花萼，有花苞；从灯台杈出来的六个枝子，都是如
此。
Three cups made like almond blossoms in one branch, a calyx and a blossom bud; and three cups made like almond blossoms in the other branch, a calyx and
a blossom bud-so for the six branches going out of the lampstand.
25:34 灯台的干上有四个杯，形状像杏花，有花萼，有花苞。
And there shall be on the lampstand four cups made like almond blossoms, its calyxes and its blossom buds;
25:35 灯台每两个枝子以下有花萼，与灯台接连一块；从灯台杈出来的六个枝子，都是如此；
And a calyx under two branches of one piece with it, and a calyx under two branches of one piece with it, and a calyx under two branches of one piece with it, for
the six branches going out of the lampstand.
25:36 花萼和枝子要与灯台接连一块，都是一块纯金锤出来的。
Their calyxes and their branches shall be of one piece with it; all of it one beaten work of pure gold.
25:37 要作灯台的七个灯盏；要把灯盏放上，使灯光对照。
And you shall make its lamps, seven; and set up its lamps to give light to the area in front of it.
25:38 灯台的灯剪和灯花盘，也是要纯金的。
And its tongs and its firepans shall be of pure gold.
25:39 作灯台和这一切的器具，要用纯金一他连得。
It shall be made of a talent of pure gold, with all these utensils.
25:40 你要谨慎，照着在山上指示你的样式去作。
82
And see that you make them according to their pattern, which was shown to you in the mountain.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 26 章
26:1 你要用十幅幕幔作帐幕；这些幕幔要用捻的细麻，和蓝色、紫色、朱红色线制造，并用巧匠的手工，绣上基路伯。
Now the tabernacle you shall make with ten curtains of fine twined linen and blue and purple and scarlet strands; you shall make them with cherubim, the work
of a skillful workman.
26:2 每幅幕幔要长二十八肘，宽四肘，幕幔都要一样的尺寸。
The length of each curtain shall be twenty-eight cubits, and the width of each curtain, four cubits; all the curtains shall have the same measurement.
26:3 五幅幕幔要幅幅相连，另五幅幕幔也要幅幅相连。
Five curtains shall be joined to one another; and the other five curtains shall be joined to one another.
26:4 在这相连幕幔的末幅边缘，要作蓝色的钮眼；在那相连幕幔的末幅边缘内，也要照样作。
And you shall make loops of blue strands on the edge of the one curtain at the end in the set; and likewise you shall make them in the edge of the outermost
curtain in the second set.
26:5 在这相连的幕幔上，要作五十个钮眼；在那相连幕幔的边缘，也要作五十个钮眼；都要两两相对。
You shall make fifty loops on the one curtain, and you shall make fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that is in the second set; the loops shall be opposite one
another.
26:6 又要作五十个金钩，用钩使幕幔彼此相连，成为一整个帐幕。
And you shall make fifty clasps of gold, and join the curtains to one another with the clasps, so that the tabernacle may become one.
26:7 你要用山羊毛织十一幅幕幔，作为帐幕以上的罩棚。
And you shall make curtains of goats' hair for a tent over the tabernacle; eleven curtains you shall make.
26:8 每幅幕幔要长三十肘，宽四肘；十一幅幕幔都要一样的尺寸。
The length of each curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the width of each curtain, four cubits; the eleven curtains shall have the same measurement.
26:9 要把五幅幕幔连成一幅，又把六幅幕幔连成一幅；这第六幅幕幔，要在罩棚的前面对摺上去。
And you shall join five of the curtains by themselves, and six of the curtains by themselves; and you shall double the sixth curtain over at the front of the tent.
26:10 在这相连幕幔的末幅边缘，要作五十个钮眼；在那相连幕幔的末幅边缘，也要作五十个钮眼。
And you shall make fifty loops on the edge of the one curtain that is outermost in the set, and fifty loops upon the edge of the curtain which is outermost in the
second set.
26:11 又要作五十个铜钩，穿在钮眼中，使罩棚连成一整个。
And you shall make fifty clasps of bronze and put the clasps into the loops and join the tent together, so that it may become one.
26:12 罩棚的幕幔所余那垂下来的部分，就是所余的半幅幕幔，要垂在帐幕的后面。
And the overlapping part that is left over of the curtains of the tent, the half curtain that is left over, shall hang over the back of the tabernacle.
26:13 罩棚的幕幔所余长的，这边一肘，那边一肘，要垂在帐幕的两边，遮盖帐幕。
And the cubit on the one side and the cubit on the other side, of what is left over in the length of the curtains of the tent, shall hang over the sides of the
tabernacle, on this side and on that side, to cover it.
26:14 又要用染红的公羊皮作罩棚的盖；再用海狗皮作罩棚上的顶盖。
And you shall make a covering for the tent, of rams' skins dyed red, and a covering of porpoise skins above it.
26:15 你要用皂荚木作帐幕的竖板。
And you shall make the boards for the tabernacle of acacia wood, standing up.
26:16 每块要长十肘，宽一肘半。
Ten cubits shall be the length of a board, and one and a half cubits, the width of each board.
26:17 每块必有两榫相对；帐幕一切的板都要这样作。
Each board shall have two tenons, parallel to each another; thus you shall do for all the boards of the tabernacle.
26:18 帐幕的南面要作二十块板。
And you shall make the boards for the tabernacle, twenty boards for the south side southward.
26:19 在这二十块板底下，要作四十个银卯座；这块板下有两个卯座接板上的两榫，那块板下也有两个卯座接板上的两榫。
And you shall make forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards, two sockets under one board for its two tenons and two sockets under the next board for its
two tenons.
26:20 帐幕第二面，就是北面，也要作二十块板，
And for the second side of the tabernacle, on the north side, twenty boards;
26:21 和四十个银卯座；这块板下有两个卯座，那块板下也有两个卯座。
And their forty sockets of silver, two sockets under one board and two sockets under the next board.
26:22 帐幕的后面，就是西面，要作六块板。
And for the rear of the tabernacle westward you shall make six boards.
26:23 帐幕后面的拐角，要作两块板。
And two boards you shall make for the corners of the tabernacle in the rear.
26:24 板下方要双的，板顶端要完全连于一个环子；两块都要这样，用于两个拐角。
And they shall be double below, and at its top they shall be completely joined to a single ring; thus it shall be for both of them; they shall be for the two corners.
26:25 必有八块板和十六个银卯座；这块板下有两个卯座，那块板下也有两个卯座。
And there shall be eight boards with their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets; two sockets under one board and two sockets under the next board.
26:26 你要用皂荚木作闩，为帐幕这面的板作五条闩，
And you shall make bars of acacia wood, five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle,
26:27 为帐幕那面的板作五条闩，又为帐幕后面朝西的板作五条闩。
And five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the side of the tabernacle at the rear westward.
26:28 板腰间的中闩，要从这一头通到那一头。
And the middle bar shall pass through in the center of the boards from end to end.
83
26:29 板要用金包裹，又要作板上的金环，用以套闩；闩也要用金包裹。
And you shall overlay the boards with gold, and make their rings of gold as holders for the bars; and you shall overlay the bars with gold.
26:30 要照着在山上指示你的样子，立起帐幕。
And you shall set up the tabernacle according to its plan, which you were shown in the mountain.
26:31 你要用蓝色、紫色、朱红色线，和捻的细麻织幔子，以巧匠的手工绣上基路伯。
And you shall make a veil of blue and purple and scarlet strands and fine twined linen; it shall be made with cherubim, the work of a skillful workman.
26:32 要把幔子挂在四根包金的皂荚木柱子上，柱子上当有金钩，柱子安在四个银卯座上。
And you shall hang it upon four pillars of acacia overlaid with gold; their hooks shall be of gold, on four sockets of silver.
26:33 要使幔子垂在钩子下，把见证的柜抬进幔子内；这幔子要为你们将圣所和至圣所隔开。
And you shall hang up the veil under the clasps and bring in the Ark of the Testimony there within the veil; and the veil shall make a separation for you between
the Holy Place and the Holy of Holies.
26:34 又要把遮罪盖安在至圣所内见证的柜上，
And you shall put the expiation cover upon the Ark of the Testimony in the Holy of Holies.
26:35 把桌子放在幔子外帐幕的北面；把灯台放在帐幕的南面，与桌子相对。
And you shall set the table outside the veil, and the lampstand opposite the table on the side of the tabernacle toward the south; and the table you shall put on
the north side.
26:36 你要拿蓝色、紫色、朱红色线，和捻的细麻，用绣花的手工织帐幕的门帘。
And you shall make a screen for the entrance of the tent, of blue and purple and scarlet strands and fine twined linen, the work of an embroiderer.
26:37 要用皂荚木为帘子作五根柱子，用金包裹；柱子上当有金钩，又要为柱子铸造五个铜卯座。
And for the screen you shall make five pillars of acacia and overlay them with gold; their hooks shall be of gold, and you shall cast five sockets of bronze for them.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 27 章
27:1 你要用皂荚木作坛，这坛要四方的，长五肘，宽五肘，高三肘。
And you shall make the altar of acacia wood, a length of five cubits and a width of five cubits; the altar shall be square; and three cubits, its height.
27:2 要在坛的四拐角上作四个角，与坛接连一块；坛要用铜包裹。
And you shall make its horns upon its four corners; its horns shall be of one piece with it, and you shall overlay it with bronze.
27:3 要作收灰的盆、铲子、盘子、肉叉、火盆；坛的一切器具都要用铜作。
And you shall make its pots to remove its ashes, and its shovels and its basins and its forks and its firepans; all its utensils you shall make of bronze.
27:4 要为坛作一个铜网，在网的四角上作四个铜环。
And you shall make a grating, a network of bronze for it; and on the net you shall make four bronze rings at its four ends.
27:5 把网安在坛四面的围腰板以下，使网从下达到坛的半腰。
And you shall put it below, under the ledge of the altar so that the net may reach halfway up the altar.
27:6 又要用皂荚木为坛作两根杠，用铜包裹。
And you shall make poles for the altar, poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with bronze.
27:7 杠要穿在坛两边的环内，用以抬坛。
And its poles shall be put into the rings, and the poles shall be on the two sides of the altar when it is carried.
27:8 坛要用板作，坛是空的；在山上怎样指示你，他们就怎样作。
You shall make it hollow with boards; as it was shown to you in the mountain, so shall they make it.
27:9 你要作帐幕的院子。院子的南面要用捻的细麻作帷子，长一百肘；
And you shall make the court of the tabernacle. On the south side southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twined linen, one hundred cubits long
for one side;
27:10 帷子的柱子二十根，卯座二十个，都要用铜作；柱子上的钩子和横杆，都要用银作。
And its twenty pillars and their twenty sockets shall be of bronze; the hooks of the pillars and their connecting rods shall be of silver.
27:11 北面也当有帷子，长一百肘；帷子的柱子二十根，卯座二十个，都要用铜作；柱子上的钩子和横杆，都要用银作。
And likewise on the north side, in length there shall be hangings a length of one hundred cubits, and its twenty pillars and their twenty sockets of bronze; the
hooks of the pillars and their connecting rods shall be of silver.
27:12 院子的西面当有帷子，宽五十肘，帷子的柱子十根，卯座十个。
And for the width of the court on the west side there shall be hangings of fifty cubits, with their ten pillars and their ten sockets.
27:13 院子的东面要宽五十肘。
And the width of the court on the east side eastward shall be fifty cubits.
27:14 门这边当有帷子，宽十五肘，帷子的柱子三根，卯座三个。
And there shall be fifteen cubits of hangings for the one side of the gate, with their three pillars and their three sockets.
27:15 门那边也当有帷子，宽十五肘，帷子的柱子三根，卯座三个。
And there shall be fifteen cubits of hangings for the other side, with their three pillars and their three sockets.
27:16 院子的门当有帘子，宽二十肘，要拿蓝色、紫色、朱红色线，和捻的细麻，用绣花的手工织成；有柱子四根，卯座四个。
And for the gate of the court there shall be a screen of twenty cubits, of blue and purple and scarlet strands, and fine twined linen, the work of an embroiderer;
with their four pillars and their four sockets.
27:17 院子四围一切的柱子都要用银杆连络，柱子上的钩子要用银作，卯座要用铜作。
All the pillars around the court shall be connected with silver, with their hooks of silver and their sockets of bronze.
27:18 院子要长一百肘，宽五十肘，高五肘，帷子要用捻的细麻作，卯座要用铜作。
The length of the court shall be one hundred cubits; and the width, fifty at each end; and the height, five cubits; of fine twined linen, and their sockets of bronze.
27:19 帐幕各样事奉用的一切器具，并帐幕一切的橛子，和院子一切的橛子，都要用铜作。
All the utensils of the tabernacle used in all its service and all its pegs and all the pegs of the court shall be of bronze.
27:20 你要吩咐以色列人，把捣成的纯橄榄油拿来给你，为点灯用，使灯常常点着。
And you shall command the children of Israel to bring to you pure oil of beaten olives for the light, to make the lamps burn continually.
84
27:21 在会幕中见证柜前的幔外，亚伦和他的子孙，从晚上到早晨，要在耶和华面前整理这灯。这要作以色列人世世代代永远的定例。
In the Tent of Meeting, outside the veil which is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall set it in order from evening to morning before Jehovah; it shall be a
perpetual statute to be observed throughout their generations by the children of Israel.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 28 章
28:1 你要从以色列人中，使你的哥哥亚伦，和他的儿子拿答、亚比户、以利亚撒、以他玛，一同就近你，可以作祭司事奉我。
And bring near to yourself Aaron your brother, and his sons with him, from among the children of Israel, that he may serve Me as a priest-Aaron, Nadab and
Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar, Aaron's sons.
28:2 你要给你哥哥亚伦作圣衣，为荣耀为华美。
And you shall make holy garments for Aaron your brother, for glory and for beauty.
28:3 又要吩咐一切心中有智慧的，就是我用智慧的灵所充满的，给亚伦作衣服，使他分别为圣，可以作祭司事奉我。
And you shall speak to all who are wise in heart, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom, that they make Aaron's garments to sanctify him, that he may serve
Me as a priest.
28:4 他们要作这些衣服：胸牌、以弗得、外袍、编织的内袍、顶冠、腰带；要为你哥哥亚伦和他儿子们作这圣衣，使他们可以作祭司事奉我。
And these are the garments which they shall make: a breastplate and an ephod and a robe and a tunic of checkered work, a turban and a girding sash. So they
shall make holy garments for Aaron your brother and for his sons that he may serve Me as a priest.
28:5 因此，他们要把金线，和蓝色、紫色、朱红色线，并细麻拿来。
They therefore shall take the gold and the blue and the purple and the scarlet strands and the fine linen,
28:6 他们要用金线，和蓝色、紫色、朱红色线，并捻的细麻，以巧匠的手工作以弗得。
And they shall make the ephod of gold, of blue and purple and scarlet strands, and fine twined linen, the work of a skillful workman.
28:7 以弗得当有两条肩带，接在以弗得两端，使以弗得相连。
It shall have two shoulder pieces joined to its two edges, so that it may be joined together.
28:8 以弗得上巧工织的带子，要和以弗得一样的作法，用以系住，与以弗得接连一块；要用金线，和蓝色、紫色、朱红色线，并捻的细麻作成。
And the skillfully woven band, which is on it for its fastening, shall be like it in workmanship, of one piece with it; of gold, of blue and purple and scarlet strands
and fine twined linen.
28:9 要取两块红玛瑙，刻上以色列儿子们的名字；
And you shall take two onyx stones and engrave on them the names of the sons of Israel,
28:10 六个名字在这块宝石上，其余六个名字在那块宝石上，都照他们出生的次序。
Six of their names on the one stone, and the names of the remaining six on the other stone, according to their birth.
28:11 要用刻宝石的手工，仿佛刻图章，按着以色列儿子们的名字，刻这两块宝石，镶嵌在金槽上。
With the work of an engraver in stone, like the engravings of a signet, you shall engrave the two stones, according to the names of the sons of Israel; you shall
make them enclosed in settings of gold.
28:12 要将这两块宝石安在以弗得的两条肩带上，为以色列人作记念石。亚伦要在两肩上担他们的名字，在耶和华面前作为记念。
And you shall put the two stones on the shoulder pieces of the ephod as stones of remembrance for the sons of Israel. And Aaron shall bear their names before
Jehovah on his two shoulders for a memorial.
28:13 你要用金作两个槽，
And you shall make settings of gold,
28:14 又要用纯金，以拧绳子的手工，作两条链子，把这拧成的链子接在两槽上。
And two chains of pure gold; you shall make them twisted, a cordage work, and you shall put the chains of cords on the settings.
28:15 你要用巧匠的手工，作一个决断的胸牌；要和以弗得一样的作法，用金线，和蓝色、紫色、朱红色线，并捻的细麻作成。
And you shall make a breastplate of judgment, the work of a skillful workman; like the work of the ephod you shall make it; of gold, of blue and purple and
scarlet strands, and of fine twined linen you shall make it.
28:16 这胸牌要四方的，叠为两层，长一虎口，宽一虎口。
It shall be square and doubled; a span its length and a span its width.
28:17 要在上面镶嵌四行宝石：第一行是红宝石、黄玉、绿宝石，
And you shall enclose in it enclosures of stones, four rows of stones: the first row shall be a row of a sardius, a topaz, and an emerald;
28:18 第二行是红玉、蓝宝石、金钢石，
And the second row, a carbuncle, a sapphire, and a diamond;
28:19 第三行是紫玛瑙、白玛瑙、紫晶，
And the third row, a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst;
28:20 第四行是黄璧玺、红玛瑙、碧玉；这些都要镶嵌在金槽中。
And the fourth row, a chrysolite, and an onyx, and a jasper; they shall be set in gold in their enclosures.
28:21 这些宝石，按着以色列儿子们的名字，要有十二块；每块刻一个名字，仿佛刻图章，代表十二个支派。
And the stones shall be according to the names of the sons of Israel, twelve, according to their names; they shall be like the engravings of a signet, each
according to its name, for the twelve tribes.
28:22 要在胸牌上，用纯金以拧绳子的手工作链子。
And you shall make on the breastplate twisted chains, a cordage work of pure gold.
28:23 在胸牌上也要作两个金环，安在胸牌的两端。
And you shall make on the breastplate two rings of gold and shall put the two rings on the two ends of the breastplate.
28:24 要把那两条拧成的金链子，穿在胸牌两端的环子里。
And you shall put the two cords of gold in the two rings at the ends of the breastplate.
28:25 又要把链子的另外两端，接在两槽上，安在以弗得前面的肩带上。
And you shall put the two other ends of the two cords on the two settings, and put them on the shoulder pieces of the ephod at the front of it.
28:26 要作两个金环，安在胸牌两端里面的边上，贴近以弗得。
85
And you shall make two rings of gold, and you shall put them upon the two ends of the breastplate upon its edge, which is toward the ephod on the inside.
28:27 又要作两个金环，安在以弗得前面两条肩带的下边，靠近相接之处，在以弗得巧工织的带子以上。
And you shall make two rings of gold and shall put them on the bottom of the two shoulder pieces of the ephod on the front of it, close to the place where it is
joined, above the skillfully woven band of the ephod.
28:28 要用蓝细带子，把胸牌的环子与以弗得的环子系住，使胸牌贴在以弗得巧工织的带子上，不至从以弗得松开。
And they shall bind the breastplate by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a cord of blue strands, that it may be upon the skillfully woven band of the ephod
and that the breastplate may not come loose from the ephod.
28:29 亚伦进圣所的时候，要将决断胸牌上以色列儿子们的名字，带在胸前，在耶和华面前常作记念。
So Aaron shall bear the names of the sons of Israel in the breastplate of judgment on his heart when he goes into the sanctuary, for a memorial before Jehovah
continually.
28:30 你又要将乌陵和土明放在决断的胸牌里；亚伦进到耶和华面前的时候，要带在胸前，在耶和华面前常将以色列人的决断牌带在胸前。
And you shall put in the breastplate of judgment the Urim and the Thummim; and they shall be on Aaron's heart when he goes in before Jehovah, and Aaron
shall bear the judgment of the children of Israel on his heart before Jehovah continually.
28:31 你要作以弗得的外袍，颜色全是蓝的。
And you shall make the robe of the ephod all of blue strands.
28:32 袍上要为头留一领口，用编织的手工在领口周围织出领边，仿佛铠甲的领口，免得破裂。
And there shall be an opening for the head in its center; around its opening there shall be a binding edge of woven work, like the opening of a coat of mail, so
that it will not be torn.
28:33 袍子周围底边上，要用蓝色、紫色、朱红色线作石榴。在袍子周围的石榴中间，要有金铃，
And you shall make on its hem pomegranates of blue and purple and scarlet strands, all around its hem, and bells of gold between them all around:
28:34 一个金铃一个石榴，一个金铃一个石榴，在袍子周围的底边上。
A golden bell and a pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate, on the hem of the robe all around.
28:35 亚伦供职的时候，要穿这袍子。他进圣所到耶和华面前，以及出来的时候，袍上的铃声必被听见，使他不至于死亡。
And it shall be upon Aaron when he ministers, and its sound shall be heard when he goes into the sanctuary before Jehovah and when he comes out, so that he
may not die.
28:36 你要用纯金作一面牌，在上面按刻图章之法，刻着归耶和华为圣。
And you shall make a plate of pure gold and engrave upon it, like the engravings of a signet: HOLY TO JEHOVAH.
28:37 要用蓝细带子，将牌系在顶冠前面。
And you shall put it on a cord of blue strands, and it shall be on the turban; it shall be at the front of the turban.
28:38 这牌必在亚伦的额上，亚伦要担当干犯圣物的罪孽；这些圣物是以色列人所分别为圣，作他们一切圣礼物的；这牌要常在他的额上，使他们可以在
耶和华面前蒙悦纳。
And it shall be upon Aaron's forehead, and Aaron shall bear the iniquity of the holy things, which the children of Israel sanctify for all their holy gifts; and it shall
always be on his forehead, that they may be accepted before Jehovah.
28:39 要用细麻线编织内袍，用细麻布作顶冠，又用绣花的手工作腰带。
And you shall weave the tunic of fine linen, and you shall make a turban of fine linen, and you shall make a girding sash, the work of an embroiderer.
28:40 你要为亚伦的儿子们作内袍、腰带、头巾，为荣耀为华美。
And for Aaron's sons you shall make tunics, and you shall make for them girding sashes, and you shall make for them high hats, for glory and for beauty.
28:41 要把这些给你的哥哥亚伦和他儿子们穿戴；又要膏他们，使他们承接圣职，将他们分别为圣，他们好作祭司事奉我。
And you shall put them upon Aaron your brother and upon his sons with him, and you shall anoint them and fill their hands and sanctify them, that they may
serve Me as priests.
28:42 要给他们作细麻布裤子，遮掩下体；裤子当从腰达到大腿。
And you shall make them linen trousers to cover their naked flesh; they shall reach from the loins even to the thighs;
28:43 亚伦和他儿子们进入会幕，或就近坛，在圣所供职的时候必穿上，免得担当罪孽而死。这要为亚伦和他的后裔作永远的定例。
And they shall be upon Aaron and upon his sons when they go into the Tent of Meeting or when they come near to the altar to minister in the sanctuary, that they
may not bear iniquity and die. It shall be a perpetual statute for him and for his seed after him.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 29 章
29:1 你要如此行，使亚伦和他儿子们分别为圣，作祭司事奉我：取一只公牛犊，两只无残疾的公绵羊，
And this is what you shall do to them to sanctify them to serve Me as priests: take one bull of the herd and two rams without blemish,
29:2 无酵饼和调油的无酵饼，与抹油的无酵薄饼；这些都要用细麦面作成。
And unleavened bread and unleavened cakes mingled with oil and unleavened wafers anointed with oil; you shall make them of fine wheat flour.
29:3 这些饼要装在一个筐子里，用筐子带来，又要把公牛和两只公绵羊牵来。
And you shall put them into one basket and present them in the basket with the bull and the two rams.
29:4 你要叫亚伦和他儿子们近前到会幕门口来，用水洗他们。
And you shall bring Aaron and his sons near to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting, and wash them with water.
29:5 要把衣服拿来，给亚伦穿上内袍、以弗得的外袍、以弗得和胸牌，束上以弗得巧工织的带子。
And you shall take the garments and clothe Aaron with the tunic and the robe of the ephod and the ephod and the breastplate, and gird him with the skillfully
woven band of the ephod;
29:6 把顶冠戴在他头上，将圣冠加在顶冠上，
And you shall place the turban on his head and put the holy crown on the turban.
29:7 然后把膏油倒在他头上膏他。
Then you shall take the anointing oil and pour it on his head and anoint him.
29:8 要叫他的儿子们近前来，给他们穿上内袍；
And you shall bring his sons near and put tunics on them.
29:9 给亚伦和他儿子们束上腰带，给他儿子们裹上头巾；他们就凭永远的定例，得了祭司的职任。又要使亚伦和他儿子们承接圣职。
86
And you shall gird them with girding sashes, Aaron and his sons, and bind high hats on them; and they shall have the priesthood by a perpetual statute. So you
shall fill the hands of Aaron and his sons.
29:10 你要把公牛牵到会幕前，亚伦和他儿子们要按手在公牛的头上。
And you shall present the bull before the Tent of Meeting, and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the bull.
29:11 你要在耶和华面前，在会幕门口，宰这公牛。
And you shall slaughter the bull before Jehovah at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting.
29:12 要取些公牛的血，用指头抹在祭坛的四角上，把其余的血都倒在坛的基部。
And you shall take some of the blood of the bull and put some of it on the horns of the altar with your finger, and all the rest of the blood you shall pour out at the
base of the altar.
29:13 要把一切盖脏的脂油与肝上的网子，并两个腰子和腰子上的脂油，都烧在坛上。
And you shall take all the fat that covers the inward parts and the appendage on the liver and the two kidneys and the fat that is on them, and burn them on the
altar.
29:14 只是公牛的肉、皮、粪，都要用火烧在营外；这是赎罪祭。
But the flesh of the bull and its skin and its dung you shall burn with fire outside the camp; it is a sin offering.
29:15 你也要取一只公绵羊来，亚伦和他儿子们要按手在羊的头上。
And you shall also take the one ram, and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the ram.
29:16 要宰这羊，把血洒在坛的四边。
And you shall slaughter the ram, and you shall take its blood and sprinkle it on and around the altar.
29:17 要把羊切成块子，洗净内脏和腿，连块子带头，都放在一处。
Then you shall cut the ram into its pieces and wash its inward parts and its legs, and put them with its pieces and its head.
29:18 要把全羊烧在坛上；这是给耶和华的燔祭，是献给耶和华为怡爽香气的火祭。
And you shall burn the whole ram on the altar; it is a burnt offering to Jehovah; it is a satisfying fragrance, an offering by fire to Jehovah.
29:19 你要取另一只公绵羊来，亚伦和他儿子们要按手在羊的头上。
And you shall take the other ram, and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the ram.
29:20 你要宰这羊，取点血抹在亚伦的右耳垂上，和他儿子们的右耳垂上；又抹在他们右手的大拇指上，和右脚的大拇指上；并要把其余的血洒在坛的四
边。
Then you shall slaughter the ram and take some of its blood and put it on the lobe of Aaron's right ear and on the lobe of the right ear of his sons and on the
thumb of their right hand and on the big toe of their right foot, and sprinkle the rest of the blood on and around the altar.
29:21 你要取点坛上的血，又取点膏油，弹在亚伦和他的衣服上，并他儿子们和他儿子们的衣服上，他们和他们的衣服就一同分别为圣。
And you shall take some of the blood that is on the altar and some of the anointing oil, and sprinkle it on Aaron and on his garments, and on his sons and on his
sons' garments with him; and he and his garments shall be sanctified, as well as his sons and his sons' garments with him.
29:22 你也要取这羊的脂油和肥尾巴，并盖脏的脂油与肝上的网子，两个腰子和腰子上的脂油，并右腿；(这是承接圣职所献的羊；)
You shall also take the fat from the ram, that is, the fat tail and the fat that covers the inward parts, and the appendage of the liver and the two kidneys with the
fat that is on them, and the right thigh (for it is a ram of the filling of hands),
29:23 再从耶和华面前装无酵饼的筐子中取一个饼，一个调油的饼和一个薄饼；
And one loaf of bread and one cake of oiled bread and one wafer out of the basket of unleavened bread that is before Jehovah;
29:24 都放在亚伦的手上，和他儿子们的手上，作为摇祭，在耶和华面前摇一摇。
And you shall put all these in the palms of Aaron and in the palms of his sons, and shall wave them as a wave offering before Jehovah.
29:25 要从他们手中接过来，烧在坛上的燔祭上，作为耶和华面前怡爽的香气；这是献给耶和华的火祭。
And you shall take them from their hands and burn them on the altar upon the burnt offering for a satisfying fragrance before Jehovah; it is an offering by fire to
Jehovah.
29:26 你要取亚伦承接圣职所献公绵羊的胸，作为摇祭，在耶和华面前摇一摇；这可以作你的分。
And you shall take the breast of Aaron's ram of the filling of hands and wave it as a wave offering before Jehovah; and it shall be your portion.
29:27 那摇祭的胸和举祭的腿，就是从承接圣职所献之公绵羊所摇的、所举的，是归亚伦和他儿子们的；这些你都要分别为圣。
And you shall sanctify the breast of the wave offering and the thigh of the heave offering which was waved and which was heaved up from the ram of the filling
of hands, from the one which is for Aaron and from the one which is for his sons.
29:28 这要作亚伦和他儿子们从以色列人中永远所得的分，因为这是举祭。这要从以色列人平安祭的祭牲中，作为献给耶和华的举祭。
And it shall become a perpetual statute for Aaron and his sons to be observed by the children of Israel; for it is a heave offering; and it shall be a heave offering
from the children of Israel from the sacrifices of their peace offerings, their heave offering to Jehovah.
29:29 亚伦的圣衣要传给他的子孙，可以穿着受膏，又穿着承接圣职。
And the holy garments of Aaron shall belong to his sons after him, for them to be anointed in them and to have their hands filled in them.
29:30 他的子孙接续他当祭司的，每逢进会幕在圣所供职的时候，要穿七天。
One of his sons who is the priest in his place shall put them on seven days when he comes into the Tent of Meeting to minister in the sanctuary.
29:31 你要将承接圣职所献公绵羊的肉，煮在圣处。
And you shall take the ram of the filling of hands and boil its flesh in a holy place.
29:32 亚伦和他儿子们要在会幕门口，吃这羊的肉和筐内的饼。
And Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram and the bread that is in the basket at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting.
29:33 他们吃这些遮罪之物，好承接圣职，使他们分别为圣；只是外人不可吃，因为这是圣的。
So they shall eat those things by which expiation was made, to fill their hands and to sanctify them; but a stranger shall not eat them, because they are holy.
29:34 那承接圣职所献的肉或饼，若有一点留到早晨，就要把留下的用火烧了，不可吃这物，因为是圣的。
And if any of the flesh of the filling of hands or any of the bread remains until the morning, then you shall burn the remainder with fire; it shall not be eaten,
because it is holy.
29:35 你要照我一切所吩咐的，向亚伦和他儿子们这样行，七天之久使他们承接圣职。
And thus you shall do to Aaron and to his sons according to all that I have commanded you; you shall fill their hands seven days.
29:36 每天要献公牛一只为赎罪祭，用以遮罪；你为坛遮罪的时候，坛就洁净了；你要用膏抹坛，使坛分别为圣。
87
And each day you shall offer a bull as a sin offering for expiation, and you shall cleanse the altar when you make expiation for it; and you shall anoint it to sanctify
it.
29:37 七天之久要为坛遮罪，使坛分别为圣，坛就成为至圣；凡触着坛的，都成为圣。
Seven days you shall make expiation for the altar and sanctify it, and the altar shall become most holy; whatever touches the altar shall be holy.
29:38 你每天所要献在坛上的，就是两只一岁的羊羔；
Now this is what you shall offer on the altar: two lambs a year old each day continually.
29:39 早晨要献这一只，黄昏的时候要献那一只。
The one lamb you shall offer in the morning, and the other lamb you shall offer at twilight.
29:40 和这一只羊羔同献的，要用细面一伊法的十分之一，与捣成的油一欣的四分之一调和；又用酒一欣的四分之一，作为奠祭。
And with the one lamb a tenth of an ephah of fine flour mingled with a fourth of a hin of beaten oil, and a fourth of a hin of wine for a drink offering.
29:41 那一只羊羔要在黄昏的时候献上，要像在早晨的时候一样，与素祭和奠祭一同献上，作为献给耶和华怡爽香气的火祭。
And the other lamb you shall offer at twilight; you shall offer it with the meal offering and its drink offering as in the morning, for a satisfying fragrance, an offering
by fire to Jehovah.
29:42 这要在耶和华面前、会幕门口，作你们世世代代常献的燔祭；我要在那里与你们相会，对你们说话。
It shall be a continual burnt offering throughout your generations at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting before Jehovah, where I will meet with you to speak to
you there.
29:43 我要在那里与以色列人相会，会幕就要因我的荣耀分别为圣。
And there I will meet with the children of Israel; and it shall be sanctified by My glory.
29:44 我要使会幕和坛分别为圣，也要使亚伦和他儿子们分别为圣，作祭司事奉我。
And I will sanctify the Tent of Meeting and the altar. Aaron also and his sons I will sanctify to serve Me as priests.
29:45 我要住在以色列人中间，作他们的神。
And I will dwell in the midst of the children of Israel, and I will be their God.
29:46 他们必知道我是耶和华他们的神，是将他们从埃及地领出来的，为要住在他们中间。我是耶和华他们的神。
And they shall know that I am Jehovah their God, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, that I might dwell in the midst of them; I am Jehovah their God.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 30 章
30:1 你要用皂荚木作一座烧香的坛。
And you shall make an altar on which to burn incense; you shall make it of acacia wood.
30:2 这坛要四方的，长一肘，宽一肘，高二肘；坛的四角要与坛接连一块。
Its length shall be a cubit and its width a cubit; it shall be square, and two cubits its height; its horns shall be of one piece with it.
30:3 要用纯金，把坛的上面与坛的四围，并坛的四角包裹；又要在坛的四围镶上金牙边。
And you shall overlay it with pure gold, its top and its sides around it and its horns; and you shall make a rim of gold around it.
30:4 要作两个金环，安在金牙边以下，在坛相对的两边，可以穿杠，用以抬坛。
And you shall make for it two golden rings under its rim; on its two sides, on its opposite sides you shall make them; and they shall be as holders for poles with
which to carry it.
30:5 要用皂荚木作两根杠，用金包裹。
And you shall make the poles of acacia wood and overlay them with gold.
30:6 要把坛放在见证柜前的幔子外，对着见证柜上的遮罪盖，就是我要与你相会的地方。
And you shall put it before the veil that is over the Ark of the Testimony, before the expiation cover that is over the testimony, where I will meet with you.
30:7 亚伦要在坛上烧馨香的香；每早晨他收拾灯的时候，要烧这香。
And Aaron shall burn on it fragrant incense; every morning when he dresses the lamps he shall burn it.
30:8 黄昏他点灯的时候，也要烧这香，作为世世代代在耶和华面前常烧的香。
And when Aaron sets up the lamps at twilight, he shall burn it, a perpetual incense before Jehovah throughout your generations.
30:9 在这坛上不可献上别的香，不可献燔祭、素祭，也不可浇上奠祭。
You shall not offer any strange incense on it, or a burnt offering or a meal offering; and you shall not pour a drink offering on it.
30:10 亚伦一年一次，要在坛的四角上为坛遮罪；他一年一次，要用遮罪之赎罪祭的血，为坛遮罪，作为世世代代的定例。这坛在耶和华面前乃为至圣。
And Aaron shall make expiation on its horns once a year; with the blood of the sin offering of expiation once a year he shall make expiation for it throughout your
generations. It is most holy to Jehovah.
30:11 耶和华告诉摩西说，
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
30:12 你要按以色列人被数点的，计算总数；你数点的时候，他们各人要为自己把赎价给耶和华，免得数的时候，在他们中间有灾殃。
When you take the sum of the children of Israel, according to those of them who are numbered, then every man shall give a ransom for himself to Jehovah, when
you number them, that there may be no plague among them when you number them.
30:13 凡被数点的，每人要按圣所的舍客勒，(一舍客勒是二十季拉，)交银子半舍客勒；这半舍客勒是献给耶和华的举祭。
This they shall give, everyone enrolled with those who are numbered, half a shekel according to the shekel of the sanctuary (the shekel is twenty gerahs), half a
shekel as a heave offering to Jehovah.
30:14 凡被数点的，自二十岁以上的人，要将这举祭献给耶和华。
Everyone enrolled with those who are numbered, from twenty years old and over, shall give the heave offering of Jehovah.
30:15 你们为自己遮罪，将举祭献给耶和华的时候，富足的不可多交，贫穷的也不可少交，各人要交半舍客勒。
The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give less than the half shekel, when you give the heave offering of Jehovah to make expiation for your souls.
30:16 你要从以色列人收这遮罪银，作为会幕事奉之用，可以在耶和华面前为以色列人作记念，为他们遮罪。
And you shall take the expiation silver from the children of Israel and shall give it for the service of the Tent of Meeting, that it may be a memorial for the children
of Israel before Jehovah to make expiation for your souls.
30:17 耶和华告诉摩西说，
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
88
30:18 你要用铜作洗濯盆和盆座，以便洗濯。要将盆放在会幕和祭坛之间，在盆里盛水。
You shall also make a laver of bronze, with its base of bronze, for washing. And you shall put it between the Tent of Meeting and the altar, and you shall put
water in it.
30:19 亚伦和他的儿子们，要用这盆里的水洗手洗脚。
And Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet with water from it;
30:20 他们进会幕的时候，要用水洗濯，免得死亡；或是他们就近坛前供职，给耶和华献火祭的时候，
When they go into the Tent of Meeting, they shall wash with water, that they may not die; or when they come near to the altar to minister, to burn an offering by
fire to Jehovah,
30:21 必要洗手洗脚，免得死亡。这要作亚伦和他后裔，世世代代永远的定例。
Then they shall wash their hands and their feet, that they may not die. And it shall be a perpetual statute to them, for him and for his seed throughout their
generations.
30:22 耶和华又告诉摩西说，
Moreover Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
30:23 你要取上好的香料，就是流质的没药五百舍客勒，香肉桂一半，就是二百五十舍客勒，香菖蒲二百五十舍客勒，
You also take the finest spices: of flowing myrrh five hundred shekels, and of fragrant cinnamon half as much, two hundred fifty shekels, and of fragrant calamus
two hundred fifty shekels,
30:24 桂皮五百舍客勒，都按着圣所的舍客勒，又取橄榄油一欣；
And of cassia five hundred shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, and a hin of olive oil.
30:25 你要把这些香料，按调制香品者之法复合成香品，作成圣膏油。
And you shall make it a holy anointing oil, a perfume compounded according to the perfumer's art; it shall be a holy anointing oil.
30:26 要用这膏油抹会幕和见证的柜、
And with it you shall anoint the Tent of Meeting and the Ark of the Testimony,
30:27 桌子和桌子的一切器具、灯台和灯台的器具、并香坛、
And the table and all its utensils, and the lampstand and its utensils, and the altar of incense,
30:28 燔祭坛和坛的一切器具、洗濯盆和盆座。
And the altar of burnt offering with all its utensils, and the laver and its base.
30:29 你要这样使这些分别为圣，好成为至圣；凡触着这些的都成为圣。
Thus you shall sanctify them that they may be most holy; whatever touches them shall be holy.
30:30 要膏亚伦和他的儿子们，使他们分别为圣，可以作祭司事奉我。
And you shall anoint Aaron and his sons and sanctify them that they may serve Me as priests.
30:31 你要对以色列人说，这油要世世代代归我为圣膏油。
And you shall speak to the children of Israel, saying, This shall be a holy anointing oil to Me throughout your generations.
30:32 不可倒在一般人的身上，也不可按这些成分，调制与这相似的；这膏油是圣的，你们也要以为圣。
Upon the flesh of man it shall not be poured, nor shall you make any like it, according to its composition; it is holy, and it shall be holy to you.
30:33 凡调制与这相似的，或将这膏油膏在凡俗的人身上的，这人要从民中剪除。
Whoever compounds any like it or whoever puts any of it upon a stranger, he shall be cut off from his people.
30:34 耶和华对摩西说，你要取馨香的香料，就是拿他弗、施喜列、喜利比拿；这些馨香的香料和纯乳香，各样的分量要相等。
And Jehovah said to Moses, Take fragrant spices-stacte and onycha and galbanum-fragrant spices with pure frankincense; there shall be an equal part of each;
30:35 你要用这些加上盐，按调制香品者之法作成香品，作成纯净圣别的香。
And you shall make of it incense, a perfume according to the perfumer's art, seasoned with salt, pure and holy.
30:36 这香要取些捣得极细，放些在会幕内见证的柜前，我要在那里与你相会；你们要以这香为至圣。
And you shall beat some of it very fine, and put some of it before the testimony in the Tent of Meeting, where I will meet with you; it shall be to you most holy.
30:37 你们为自己调制的香，不可按这些成分调制；要以这香为圣，归耶和华。
And the incense which you shall make, you shall not make for yourselves according to its composition; it shall be holy to you for Jehovah.
30:38 凡作香和这香一样，为要闻香味的，这人要从民中剪除。
Whoever shall make any like it, to smell it, shall be cut off from his people.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 31 章
31:1 耶和华告诉摩西说，
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
31:2 看哪，犹大支派中，户珥的孙子，乌利的儿子比撒列，我已经题名召他。
See, I have called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah.
31:3 我也已经以神的灵充满他，使他有智慧，有悟性，有知识，能作各样的工，
And I have filled him with the Spirit of God, with wisdom and with understanding and with knowledge and with all kinds of workmanship,
31:4 能设计奇巧的工，用金、银、铜制造各物；
To fashion skillful designs, to work in gold and in silver and in bronze,
31:5 又能刻宝石，可以镶嵌，能雕木头，能作各样的工。
And in the cutting of stones for setting and in the carving of wood, to work in all kinds of workmanship.
31:6 我已经亲自分派但支派中，亚希撒抹的儿子亚何利亚伯与他同工；凡心中有智慧的，我已赐他们心中有智慧，能作我所吩咐你的一切，
And now, I Myself have appointed with him Oholiab the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan; and in the heart of all who are wise in heart I have put wisdom,
that they may make all that I have commanded you:
31:7 就是会幕、见证的柜和其上的遮罪盖、会幕的一切器具，
The Tent of Meeting, and the Ark of the Testimony and the expiation cover that is on it, and all the utensils of the tent,
31:8 桌子和桌子的器具、纯金的灯台和灯台的一切器具、香坛，
And the table and its utensils, and the pure lampstand with all its utensils, and the altar of incense,
89
31:9 燔祭坛和坛的一切器具、洗濯盆和盆座，
And the altar of burnt offering with all its utensils, and the laver and its base,
31:10 精工作的衣服，就是祭司亚伦的圣衣，和他儿子们用以作祭司事奉的衣服，
And the finely worked garments, both the holy garments for Aaron the priest and the garments of his sons for them to serve as priests,
31:11 膏油和供圣所用馨香香料的香。他们都要照我所吩咐你的一切去作。
And the anointing oil, and the incense of fragrant spices for the sanctuary. According to all that I have commanded you, they shall do.
31:12 耶和华告诉摩西说，
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
31:13 你要吩咐以色列人说，你们务要守我的安息日；因为这是我与你们之间世世代代的记号，使你们知道我是把你们分别为圣的耶和华。
Speak also to the children of Israel, saying, You shall surely keep My Sabbaths; for it is a sign between Me and you throughout your generations, that you may
know that I am Jehovah who sanctifies you.
31:14 所以你们要守安息日，因为这是你们的圣日。凡渎犯这日的，必要被处死；凡在这日作工的，那人要从民中剪除。
Therefore you shall keep the Sabbath, for it is holy to you. Everyone who profanes it shall surely be put to death; for whoever does any work on it, that soul shall
be cut off from among his people.
31:15 六日要作工，但第七日是完全安息的安息日，是归耶和华为圣的；凡在安息日作工的，必要被处死。
Six days work shall be done, but on the seventh day there is a Sabbath of complete rest, holy to Jehovah; whoever does any work on the Sabbath day shall surely
be put to death.
31:16 故此，以色列人要谨守安息日，要世世代代守这安息日为永远的约。
Therefore the children of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, to observe the Sabbath throughout their generations as a perpetual covenant.
31:17 这是我与以色列人之间永远的记号；因为六日之内耶和华造天地，第七日便安息舒畅。
It is a sign between Me and the children of Israel forever; for in six days Jehovah made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day He rested and was refreshed.
31:18 耶和华在西乃山和摩西说完了话，就把两块见证的版交给他，是神用指头写的石版。
And when He had finished speaking with him upon Mount Sinai, He gave to Moses the two tablets of the testimony, tablets of stone, written with the finger of
God.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 32 章
32:1 百姓见摩西迟延不下山，就大家聚集到亚伦那里，对他说，起来，为我们造神像，可以在我们前面引路；因为领我们从埃及地上来的那人摩西，我们
不知道他遭遇了什么事。
And when the people saw that Moses delayed to come down from the mountain, the people gathered against Aaron and said to him, Come, make gods for us
who will go before us; as for this Moses, the man who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him.
32:2 亚伦对他们说，把你们妻子、儿子、女儿耳上的金环摘下，拿来给我。
And Aaron said to them, Tear off the gold rings, which are in the ears of your wives, your sons, and your daughters, and bring them to me.
32:3 众百姓就把他们耳上的金环摘下，拿来给亚伦。
And all the people tore off the golden rings which were in their ears and brought them to Aaron.
32:4 亚伦从他们手里接过来，铸了一只牛犊，是用雕刻的工具作成的。他们就说，以色列阿，这是领你从埃及地上来的神。
And he took the gold from their hand and fashioned it with an engraving tool and made it into a molten calf; and they said, These are your gods, O Israel, who
brought you up out of the land of Egypt!
32:5 亚伦看见，就在牛犊面前筑坛，并且宣告说，明日要向耶和华守节。
And when Aaron saw this, he built an altar before it; then Aaron made a proclamation and said, Tomorrow shall be a feast to Jehovah.
32:6 次日，百姓清早起来，献上燔祭，并带来平安祭，然后坐下吃喝，起来玩耍。
And they rose up early on the next day and offered burnt offerings and brought peace offerings; and the people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play.
32:7 耶和华对摩西说，下去罢，因为你的百姓，就是你从埃及地领上来的，已经败坏了。
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, Go, get down; for your people, whom you brought up out of the land of Egypt, have corrupted themselves.
32:8 他们很快就偏离了我所吩咐他们行的道路，为自己铸了一只牛犊，向它下拜献祭，说，以色列阿，这就是领你从埃及地上来的神。
They have quickly turned aside from the way which I commanded them. They have made for themselves a molten calf, and they have worshipped it and have
sacrificed to it and said, These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt!
32:9 耶和华对摩西说，我看这百姓真是硬着颈项的百姓。
And Jehovah said to Moses, I have seen this people, and there they are, a stiffnecked people.
32:10 你且由着我，我要向他们发烈怒，将他们灭绝；我要使你成为大国。
Now therefore let Me alone, that My anger may burn against them, and I may consume them; and I will make you into a great nation.
32:11 摩西恳求耶和华他的神，说，耶和华阿，你为什么向你的百姓发烈怒？这百姓是你用大力并大能的手，从埃及地领出来的。
And Moses entreated Jehovah his God and said, Jehovah, why does Your anger burn against Your people, whom You brought out of the land of Egypt with great
power and with a mighty hand?
32:12 为什么使埃及人议论说，祂领他们出去，是要降祸与他们，把他们杀在山中，将他们从地面上除灭？求你转意，不发你的烈怒，后悔，不降祸与你
的百姓。
Why should the Egyptians speak, saying, With evil intent He brought them out, to slay them in the mountains and to consume them from the face of the earth?
Turn from Your burning anger, and repent of this evil against Your people.
32:13 求你记念你的仆人亚伯拉罕、以撒、以色列，你曾指着自己向他们起誓说，我要使你们的后裔繁增，如同天上的星那样多，并且我要把所应许的这
全地，赐给你们的后裔，他们要永远承受为业。
Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, Your servants, to whom You swore by Yourself and said to them, I will multiply your seed as the stars of heaven, and all
this land that I have spoken of I will give to your seed, and they shall inherit it forever.
32:14 于是耶和华后悔，不把所说的祸降与祂的百姓。
Thus Jehovah repented of the evil which He said He would do to His people.
32:15 摩西转身下山，手里拿着两块见证的版；版是两面写的，这面那面都有字。
90
Then Moses turned and went down from the mountain with the two tablets of the testimony in his hand, tablets that were written on both of their sides; on the
one side and on the other were they written.
32:16 版是神作的；字是神写的，刻在版上。
And the tablets were the work of God, and the writing was the writing of God, engraved upon the tablets.
32:17 约书亚听见百姓呼喊的声音，就对摩西说，在营里有争战的声音。
And when Joshua heard the sound of the people as they shouted, he said to Moses, There is a sound of war in the camp.
32:18 但摩西说，这不是打胜仗呼喊的声音；也不是打败仗呼喊的声音；我所听见的，乃是歌唱的声音。
But Moses said, It is not the sound of the cry of triumph, Neither is it the sound of the cry of defeat; But it is the sound of singing that I hear.
32:19 摩西走近营前，就看见那牛犊，又看见人跳舞，便发烈怒，把两块版从手中扔出，在山下摔碎了。
And as soon as he drew near to the camp, he saw the calf and the dancing; and Moses' anger burned, and he threw the tablets out of his hands and shattered
them at the foot of the mountain.
32:20 又将他们所铸的牛犊用火焚烧，磨得粉碎，撒在水面上，叫以色列人喝。
And he took the calf which they had made, and he burned it with fire and ground it to powder and scattered it upon the water and made the children of Israel
drink it.
32:21 摩西对亚伦说，这百姓向你作了什么，你竟使他们陷在这样大的罪里？
And Moses said to Aaron, What did this people do to you that you brought so great a sin upon them?
32:22 亚伦说，求我主不要发烈怒。这百姓专于作恶，是你知道的。
And Aaron said, Do not let the anger of my lord burn. You know the people, that they are set on evil;
32:23 他们对我说，你为我们造神像，可以在我们前面引路；因为领我们从埃及地上来的那人摩西，我们不知道他遭遇了什么事。
For they said to me, Make gods for us who will go before us; for this Moses, the man who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has
become of him.
32:24 所以我对他们说，凡有金环的，可以摘下来，他们就给了我。我把金环扔在火中，这牛犊便出来了。
So I said to them, Whoever has any gold, let them tear it off; so they gave it to me, and I threw it into the fire, and this calf came out.
32:25 摩西见百姓放肆，(因为亚伦纵容他们，使他们在仇敌中间被讥刺，)
And when Moses saw that the people were without restraint (for Aaron had let them be without restraint to be a derision among those who rise up against them),
32:26 就站在营门中，说，凡属耶和华的，都到我这里来！于是利未的子孙，都到他那里聚集。
Moses stood in the gate of the camp and said, Whoever is for Jehovah, come to me. And all the sons of Levi gathered themselves to him.
32:27 他对他们说，耶和华以色列的神这样说，你们各人把刀佩在腰间，在营中往来，从这门到那门，各人杀自己的弟兄、同伴和邻舍。
And he said to them, Thus says Jehovah the God of Israel, Let each man put his sword upon his thigh, and go back and forth from gate to gate throughout the
camp, and each man kill his brother, and each man his companion, and each man his neighbor.
32:28 利未的子孙照摩西的话行了；那一天百姓中被杀的约有三千。
And the sons of Levi did according to the word of Moses, and that day about three thousand men among the people fell.
32:29 摩西说，今天你们要承接圣职，归与耶和华，因为各人攻击了自己的儿子和弟兄，使耶和华今天赐福与你们。
And Moses said, Fill your hands today to Jehovah, for every man has been against his son and against his brother, that He may bestow upon you a blessing
today.
32:30 到了第二天，摩西对百姓说，你们犯了大罪；我如今要上耶和华那里去，或者可以为你们遮罪。
And on the next day Moses said to the people, You have sinned a great sin; and now I will go up to Jehovah; perhaps I can make expiation for your sin.
32:31 摩西回到耶和华那里，说，唉，这百姓犯了大罪，为自己作了金的神像。
And Moses returned to Jehovah and said, Oh, this people have committed a great sin and have made gods of gold for themselves.
32:32 倘若如今你肯赦免他们的罪…不然，求你从你所写的册上涂抹我的名。
Yet now, if You will forgive their sin-and if not, please blot me out of Your book which You have written.
32:33 耶和华对摩西说，谁得罪我，我就从我的册上涂抹谁的名。
And Jehovah said to Moses, Whoever has sinned against Me, I will blot him out of My book.
32:34 现在你去领这百姓，往我所告诉你的地方去，我的使者必在你前面引路；只是到我追讨的日子，我必追讨他们的罪。
And now go, lead the people to the place about which I have spoken to you. Now My Angel will go before you; nevertheless in the day when I visit, I will visit their
sin upon them.
32:35 耶和华击杀百姓，是因他们同亚伦造了牛犊。
And Jehovah struck the people because of what they did with the calf which Aaron had made.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 33 章
33:1 耶和华对摩西说，现在你和你从埃及地领上来的百姓，要离开这里，上我所起誓要赐给亚伯拉罕、以撒、雅各的地去；我曾对他们说，要将这地赐给
他们的后裔。
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, Depart; go up from here, you and the people whom you have brought up out of the land of Egypt, to the land of which I swore to
Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, To your seed I will give it.
33:2 我要差遣使者在你前面；我要撵出迦南人、亚摩利人、赫人、比利洗人、希未人、耶布斯人。
And I will send an Angel before you; and I will drive out the Canaanites, the Amorites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites.
33:3 你们要上去，到那流奶与蜜之地；我不在你们中间同你们上去，恐怕我在路上把你们灭绝，因为你们是硬着颈项的百姓。
Go up to a land flowing with milk and honey; for I will not go up in your midst, lest I consume you in the way, for you are a stiffnecked people.
33:4 百姓听见这凶信，就悲哀，也没有人佩戴妆饰。
And when the people heard this evil word, they mourned, and no one put on his ornaments.
33:5 耶和华对摩西说，你告诉以色列人，耶和华说，你们是硬着颈项的百姓，我只要片时在你们中间同你们上去，必会灭绝你们。现在你们要把身上的妆
饰脱下来，我好知道怎样待你们。
Now Jehovah had said to Moses, Say to the children of Israel, You are a stiffnecked people; if I were to go up in your midst for one moment, I would consume you.
Now therefore put off your ornaments from you, and I will decide what to do to you.
33:6 因此，以色列人从住何烈山以后，就把身上的妆饰摘除干净。
91
Thus the children of Israel were stripped of their ornaments from Mount Horeb onward.
33:7 摩西将帐棚支搭在营外，离营一段距离，他称这帐棚为会幕。凡求问耶和华的，就出到营外的会幕那里去。
Now Moses would take the tent and pitch it outside the camp, some distance from the camp; and he called it the Tent of Meeting. And everyone who sought
Jehovah went out to the Tent of Meeting, which was outside the camp.
33:8 当摩西出营到会幕去的时候，百姓就都起来，各人站在自己帐棚的门口，望着摩西，直等到他进了会幕。
And whenever Moses went out to the tent, all the people would rise up and stand, every man at the entrance of his tent, and gaze after Moses, until he entered
the tent.
33:9 摩西进会幕的时候，云柱就降下来，停在会幕的门口，耶和华便与摩西说话。
And whenever Moses entered the tent, the pillar of cloud would descend and stay at the entrance of the tent, and Jehovah would speak with Moses.
33:10 众百姓看见云柱立在会幕门口，就都起来，各人在自己帐棚的门口下拜。
When all the people saw the pillar of cloud standing at the entrance of the tent, all the people would rise up and worship, every man at the entrance of his tent.
33:11 耶和华与摩西面对面说话，好像人与同伴说话一般。摩西回到营里去，但他的帮手，一个少年人，就是嫩的儿子约书亚，不离开会幕。
And Jehovah would speak to Moses face to face, just as a man speaks to his companion. And Moses would return to the camp, but his attendant Joshua the son
of Nun, a young man, would not depart out of the tent.
33:12 摩西对耶和华说，看哪，你对我说，将这百姓领上去，却没有让我知道你要差遣谁与我同去，只是你曾说，我按你的名认识你，你在我眼前也蒙了
恩。
And Moses said to Jehovah, See, You say to me, Bring up this people; but You have not let me know whom You will send with me. Yet You have said, I know you
by name, and you have also found favor in My sight.
33:13 我如今若在你眼前蒙恩，求你叫我知道你的法则，使我可以认识你，好在你眼前继续蒙恩。求你也想到这民是你的百姓。
Now therefore if I have found favor in Your sight, please let me know now Your ways, that I may know You, so that I may continue to find favor in Your sight.
Consider also that this nation is Your people.
33:14 耶和华说，我的同在必和你同去，使你得安息。
And He said, My presence shall go with you, and I will give you rest.
33:15 摩西对祂说，你的同在若不和我们同去，就不要把我们从这里领上去。
And he said to Him, If Your presence does not go with us, do not bring us up from here.
33:16 人如何得以知道，我和你的百姓在你眼前蒙恩？岂不是因你与我们同去，使我和你的百姓与地上的万民有分别么？
For how then shall it be known that I have found favor in Your sight, I and Your people? Is it not by Your going with us, so that we, I and Your people, are distinct
from all the other people who are on the face of the earth?
33:17 耶和华对摩西说，你所说的这事我也要行；因为你在我眼前蒙了恩，并且我按你的名认识你。
And Jehovah said to Moses, I will do this thing also that you have spoken; for you have found favor in My sight, and I know you by name.
33:18 摩西说，求你将你的荣耀显给我看。
And he said, Please show me Your glory.
33:19 耶和华说，我要使我一切的美善，在你面前经过，并要在你面前宣告耶和华的名。我要向谁施恩惠，就向谁施恩惠；要对谁动怜恤，就对谁动怜恤；
And He said, I will make all My goodness pass before you, and I will proclaim the name of Jehovah before you; and I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious,
and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion.
33:20 又说，你不能看见我的面，因为没有人看见我的面还能存活。
But He said, You cannot see My face; for no man shall see Me and live.
33:21 耶和华说，看哪，在我这里有个地方，你要站在磐石上；
Then Jehovah said, Here there is a place by Me, and you shall stand upon the rock;
33:22 我的荣耀经过的时候，我要将你放在磐石穴中，用我的手掌遮掩你，直等我过去；
And while My glory passes by, I will put you in a cleft of the rock, and I will cover you with My palm until I have passed by.
33:23 然后我要将我的手掌挪开，你就得见我的背，却不得见我的面。
And I will take away My hand, and you will see My back; but My face shall not be seen.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 34 章
34:1 耶和华对摩西说，你要凿出两块石版，和先前的一样；先前你摔碎的版，其上的字我要写在这两块版上。
Then Jehovah said to Moses, Cut two tablets of stone like the first ones, and I will write upon the tablets the words which were on the first tablets, which you
shattered.
34:2 早晨以前你要预备好，到了早晨你要上西乃山，在山顶上站在我面前。
And be ready by the morning, and come up in the morning to Mount Sinai, and present yourself there to Me, on the top of the mountain.
34:3 谁也不可和你一同上去，遍山都不可有人，在山前也不可叫羊群牛群吃草。
And no one shall come up with you, nor let anyone be seen anywhere on the mountain, nor let the flocks or herds graze in front of that mountain.
34:4 摩西就凿出两块石版，和先前的一样；清晨起来，照耶和华所吩咐的上西乃山去，手里拿着两块石版。
So Moses cut two tablets of stone like the first ones. Then Moses rose up early in the morning and went up to Mount Sinai, just as Jehovah had commanded him;
and he took two tablets of stone in his hand.
34:5 耶和华在云中降临，和摩西一同站在那里，宣告耶和华的名。
And Jehovah descended in the cloud and took His place there with him and proclaimed the name of Jehovah.
34:6 耶和华在他面前经过，宣告说，耶和华，耶和华，是有怜恤、有恩典的神，不轻易发怒，并有丰盛的慈爱和信实；
Then Jehovah passed by before him and proclaimed, Jehovah, Jehovah, God compassionate and gracious, long-suffering, and abundant in lovingkindness and
truth,
34:7 为千万人存留慈爱，赦免罪孽、过犯和罪；但祂绝不以有罪的为无罪，必追讨他的罪孽，自父及子及孙，直到三四代。
Keeping lovingkindness for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin; but He will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers
upon the children and upon the grandchildren, to the third and fourth generations.
34:8 摩西急忙俯伏在地敬拜，
And Moses made haste and bowed to the ground and worshipped.
92
34:9 说，主阿，我若在你眼前蒙恩，求主在我们中间和我们同去；虽然他们是硬着颈项的百姓，但求你赦免我们的罪孽和罪恶，以我们为你的产业。
And he said, If now I have found favor in Your sight, O Lord, let the Lord please go in our midst; although they are a stiffnecked people, You pardon our iniquity
and our sin and take us for Your inheritance.
34:10 耶和华说，看哪，我要立约。我要在你的众百姓面前行奇事，是在全地万国中所未曾行的。在你四围的众民，就要看见耶和华的作为，因我要向你
行的是可畏惧的事。
And He said, Now I am going to make a covenant. Before all your people I will perform wonders such as have not been produced in all the earth, nor among any
of the nations; and all the people among whom you are shall see the work of Jehovah, for it is an awesome thing that I will perform with you.
34:11 我今天所吩咐你的，你要谨守。我要从你面前撵出亚摩利人、迦南人、赫人、比利洗人、希未人、耶布斯人。
Observe what I am commanding you today. I will drive out before you the Amorites and the Canaanites and the Hittites and the Perizzites and the Hivites and the
Jebusites.
34:12 你要谨慎，不可与你所去那地的居民立约，恐怕他们成为你们中间的网罗；
Be careful that you do not make any covenant with the inhabitants of the land against which you are going, lest they become a snare in your midst.
34:13 却要拆毁他们的祭坛，打碎他们的柱像，砍下他们的木像，
But their altars you shall tear down, and their pillars you shall shatter, and their Asherahs you shall cut down
34:14 (你不可敬拜别神；因为耶和华是忌邪的神，名为忌邪者，)
(For you shall not worship any other god; for Jehovah, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God),
34:15 恐怕你与那地的居民立约，他们随从自己的神行邪淫，给自己的神献祭时，有人邀你，你便吃他的祭物；
Lest you make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, and they play the harlot after their gods and sacrifice to their gods, and someone invites you, and you
eat of his sacrifice;
34:16 又为你的儿子娶他的女儿为妻，他的女儿随从自己的神行邪淫，就使你的儿子也随从她们的神行邪淫。
And you take some of his daughters for your sons, and his daughters play the harlot after their gods, and make your sons play the harlot after their gods.
34:17 你不可为自己铸造神像。
You shall not make for yourself any molten gods.
34:18 你要守除酵节，照我所吩咐你的，在亚笔月内所定的日期，吃无酵饼七天，因为你是在亚笔月内出埃及的。
You shall keep the Feast of Unleavened Bread. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, as I commanded you, at the appointed time in the month of Abib, for
in the month of Abib you came out from Egypt.
34:19 凡头胎的都是我的；一切牲畜头生的，无论是牛是羊，公的都是我的。
All that opens the womb is Mine; even the first male produced by all your livestock, of cattle or sheep.
34:20 头生的驴，你要用羊羔代赎；若不代赎，就要打折它的颈项。凡你儿子中头生的，都要赎出来。谁也不可空手朝见我。
And the first offspring of a donkey you shall redeem with a lamb; but if you do not redeem it, then you shall break its neck. All the firstborn of your sons you shall
redeem, and they shall not appear before Me empty.
34:21 你六日要作工，第七日要停工，虽在耕种和收割的时候，也要停工。
Six days you shall work, but on the seventh day you shall cease from labor. Even in plowing time and in harvest time you shall cease from labor.
34:22 在收割初熟麦子的时候，要守七七节；又在年底，要守收藏节。
And you shall keep the Feast of Weeks, that is, of the firstfruits of the wheat harvest, and the Feast of Ingathering at the turn of the year.
34:23 你所有的男丁，要一年三次朝见主耶和华以色列的神。
Three times a year all your males shall appear before the Lord Jehovah, the God of Israel.
34:24 我要从你面前赶出外邦人，扩张你的境界；你一年三次上去朝见耶和华你神的时候，必没有人贪图你的地土。
For I will drive out nations before you and enlarge your borders, and no one shall covet your land when you go up to appear before Jehovah your God three times
in the year.
34:25 你不可将我祭牲的血与有酵的物一同献上；逾越节的祭物，也不可留到早晨。
You shall not slaughter the blood of My sacrifice with anything leavened, nor shall the sacrifice of the Feast of the Passover remain all night until the morning.
34:26 地里首先初熟之物，要带到耶和华你神的殿中。不可用山羊羔母的奶煮山羊羔。
The first of the firstfruits of your ground you shall bring to the house of Jehovah your God. You shall not boil a kid in its mother's milk.
34:27 耶和华对摩西说，你要将这些话写上，因为我是按这些话与你和以色列人立约的。
And Jehovah said to Moses, Write these words, for according to the speaking of these words I have made a covenant with you and with Israel.
34:28 摩西在那里与耶和华同在四十昼四十夜，也不吃饭也不喝水。耶和华将这约的话，就是十条诫命，写在两块版上。
And he was there with Jehovah forty days and forty nights; he did not eat bread, and he did not drink water. And He wrote upon the tablets the words of the
covenant, the ten commandments.
34:29 摩西手里拿着两块见证的版，下西乃山的时候，不知道自己的面皮因耶和华和他说话就发了光。
And when Moses came down from Mount Sinai-and the two tablets of the testimony were in Moses' hand when he came down from the mountain-Moses did
not know that the skin of his face shone by reason of His speaking with him.
34:30 亚伦和以色列众人看见摩西的面皮发光，就怕挨近他。
And when Aaron and all the children of Israel saw Moses, at that time the skin of his face shone, and they were afraid to come near him.
34:31 摩西叫他们来，于是亚伦和会众的官长都回到他那里，摩西就对他们说话。
So Moses called to them, and Aaron and all the rulers in the assembly returned to him, and Moses spoke to them.
34:32 随后以色列众人都近前来，他就把耶和华在西乃山与他所说的一切话，都吩咐他们。
And afterward all the children of Israel came near, and he gave them in commandment all that Jehovah had spoken with him on Mount Sinai.
34:33 摩西与他们说完了话，就用帕子蒙上脸。
And when Moses had finished speaking with them, he put a veil over his face.
34:34 但摩西每逢进到耶和华面前与祂说话，就揭去帕子；及至他出来，将耶和华所吩咐的告诉以色列人，
But whenever Moses went in before Jehovah to speak with Him, he would remove the veil until he came out; and whenever he came out and spoke to the
children of Israel what he was commanded,
34:35 以色列人就看见摩西的面皮发光。摩西又用帕子蒙上脸，等到他进去与耶和华说话，就揭去帕子。
The children of Israel saw the face of Moses, that the skin of Moses' face shone. So Moses put the veil back on his face until he went in to speak with Him.
93
出埃及记 Exodus 第 35 章
35:1 摩西招聚以色列全会众，对他们说，这是耶和华所吩咐的话，叫你们照着行。
And Moses gathered all the assembly of the children of Israel and said to them, These are the words which Jehovah has commanded you to do.
35:2 六日要作工，但第七日你们要有完全安息的安息日，是归耶和华为圣的；凡在这日作工的，要被处死。
Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day you shall have a Sabbath of complete rest, holy to Jehovah; whoever does any work on it shall be put to
death.
35:3 当安息日，不可在你们一切的住处生火。
You shall kindle no fire in any of your dwellings on the Sabbath day.
35:4 摩西对以色列全会众说，耶和华这样吩咐，说，
And Moses spoke to all the assembly of the children of Israel, saying, This is what Jehovah has commanded, saying,
35:5 你们中间要拿举祭给耶和华，凡心中乐意的，可以拿耶和华的举祭来，就是金、银、铜，
Take from among yourselves a heave offering to Jehovah; whoever is of a willing heart, let him bring it, the heave offering of Jehovah: gold and silver and bronze,
35:6 蓝色、紫色、朱红色线，细麻，山羊毛，
And blue and purple and scarlet strands, and fine linen, and goats' hair,
35:7 染红的公羊皮，海狗皮，皂荚木，
And rams' skins dyed red, and porpoise skins, and acacia wood,
35:8 点灯的油，并作膏油和作馨香之香的香料，
And oil for the light, and spices for the anointing oil and for the fragrant incense,
35:9 红玛瑙与别样的宝石，可以镶嵌在以弗得和胸牌上。
And onyx stones and stones to be set for the ephod and for the breastplate.
35:10 你们中间凡心里有智慧的，都要来作耶和华一切所吩咐的，
And let every man who is wise in heart among you come and make all that Jehovah has commanded:
35:11 就是帐幕和帐幕的罩棚，并帐幕的盖、钩子、板、闩、柱子和卯座，
The tabernacle, its tent, and its covering, its clasps and its boards, its bars, its pillars, and its sockets;
35:12 柜、柜的杠、遮罪盖、和遮掩柜的幔子，
The Ark and its poles, the expiation cover, and the veil of the screen;
35:13 桌子、桌子的杠、桌子的一切器具、和陈设饼，
The table and its poles and all its utensils, and the bread of the Presence;
35:14 灯台、灯台的器具、灯盏、和点灯的油，
And the lampstand for the light and its utensils and its lamps, and the oil for the light;
35:15 香坛和坛的杠，膏油和馨香的香，并帐幕门口的帘子，
And the altar of incense and its poles, and the anointing oil, and the fragrant incense, and the screen for the entrance, at the entrance of the tabernacle;
35:16 燔祭坛、坛的铜网、坛的杠、和坛的一切器具，洗濯盆和盆座，
The altar of burnt offering, with its grating of bronze, its poles, and all its utensils; the laver and its base;
35:17 院子的帷子、帷子的柱子和卯座、并院子的门帘，
The hangings of the court, its pillars, and its sockets, and the screen for the gate of the court;
35:18 帐幕的橛子，并院子的橛子，和这两处的绳子，
The pegs of the tabernacle and the pegs of the court, and their cords;
35:19 在圣所供职用的精工作的衣服，就是祭司亚伦的圣衣，和他儿子们用以作祭司事奉的衣服。
The finely worked garments for ministering in the sanctuary, the holy garments for Aaron the priest and the garments of his sons for them to serve as priests.
35:20 以色列全会众从摩西面前退去。
And all the assembly of the children of Israel departed from the presence of Moses.
35:21 凡心中受感并灵里乐意的，都将耶和华的举祭带来，用以造会幕，并供其中一切事奉之用，又用以作圣衣。
And they came, everyone whose heart lifted him up and everyone whose spirit made him willing, and brought the heave offering of Jehovah for the work of the
Tent of Meeting and for all its service and for the holy garments.
35:22 凡心中乐意的，连男带女，都将各样金器，就是鼻环、耳环、打印的戒指、和手镯带来，各人把金子向耶和华摇一摇，作为摇祭。
And they came, men together with women, as many as were of a willing heart, and brought nose rings and earrings and signet rings and pendants, all kinds of
articles of gold; even every man who waved a wave offering of gold to Jehovah.
35:23 凡有蓝色、紫色、朱红色线，细麻，山羊毛，染红的公羊皮，海狗皮的，都带了来；
And every man with whom was found blue and purple and scarlet strands, and fine linen, and goats' hair, and rams' skins dyed red, and porpoise skins, brought
them.
35:24 凡献银和铜给耶和华为举祭的，都带了来；凡有皂荚木可作什么事奉用的，也带了来。
Everyone who offered a heave offering of silver and bronze brought the heave offering of Jehovah; and every man with whom was found acacia wood for any
work of the service brought it.
35:25 凡心中有智慧的妇女亲手纺线，把所纺的蓝色、紫色、朱红色线和细麻，都带了来。
And all the women who were wise in heart spun with their hands and brought what they had spun, the blue and the purple and the scarlet strands, and the fine
linen.
35:26 凡有智慧、心里受感的妇女，就纺山羊毛。
And all the women whose heart lifted them up in wisdom spun the goats' hair.
35:27 众首领把红玛瑙与别样的宝石，可以镶嵌在以弗得和胸牌上的，都带了来；
And the leaders brought the onyx stones and the stones for setting for the ephod and for the breastplate,
35:28 又把香料和油带来，用以点灯，并作膏油和馨香的香。
And the spices and the oil for the light and for the anointing oil and for the fragrant incense.
35:29 以色列人无论男女，凡甘心乐意带礼物来，用以作耶和华藉摩西所吩咐一切工的，都把甘心祭带来给耶和华。
94
The children of Israel brought a freewill offering to Jehovah; every man and woman whose heart made them willing to bring for all the work, which Jehovah had
commanded through Moses to be done.
35:30 摩西对以色列人说，看哪，犹大支派中，户珥的孙子，乌利的儿子比撒列，耶和华已经题名召他，
And Moses said to the children of Israel, See, Jehovah has called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah.
35:31 也已经以神的灵充满他，使他有智慧，有悟性，有知识，能作各样的工，
And He has filled him with the Spirit of God, with wisdom, with understanding, and with knowledge, and with all kinds of workmanship;
35:32 能设计巧工，用金、银、铜制造各物；
Even to fashion skillful designs, to work in gold and in silver and in bronze,
35:33 又能刻宝石，可以镶嵌，能雕木头，能作各样的巧工。
And in the cutting of stones for setting, and in the carving of wood, to work in all kinds of skillful workmanship.
35:34 耶和华已经使他，和但支派中亚希撒抹的儿子亚何利亚伯，心里灵明，能教导人。
And He has put in his heart to teach, both he and Oholiab the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan.
35:35 耶和华使他们的心满有智慧，能作各样的工，无论是雕刻的工，巧匠的工，用蓝色、紫色、朱红色线和细麻绣花的工，并编织的工，他们都能作，
也能设计巧工。
He has filled them with wisdom of heart, to work all kinds of workmanship, of an engraver and of a skillful workman and of an embroiderer in blue and in purple
and in scarlet strands, and in fine linen, and of the weaver, even of those who do all kinds of workmanship and of those who fashion skillful designs.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 36 章
36:1 比撒列和亚何利亚伯，并一切心里有智慧的，就是蒙耶和华赐智慧和悟性，知道如何作各样供圣所事奉使用之工的，都要照耶和华所吩咐的一切作工。
And Bezalel and Oholiab and every man who is wise in heart in whom Jehovah has put wisdom and understanding to know how to do all the work for the
service of the sanctuary shall work according to all that Jehovah has commanded.
36:2 凡耶和华赐他心中有智慧，而且心中受感前来作这工的，摩西把他们和比撒列并亚何利亚伯一同召来。
And Moses called Bezalel and Oholiab and every man who was wise in heart in whose heart Jehovah had put wisdom, even everyone whose heart lifted him up
to come to the work to do it.
36:3 这些人就从摩西收了以色列人为供圣所事奉使用之工，所带来的各样举祭，好作这工。每早晨百姓仍不断的把甘心祭带给摩西。
And they received from Moses every heave offering which the children of Israel had brought for the work of the service of the sanctuary, to make it. And they still
kept bringing to him freewill offerings every morning.
36:4 凡作圣所一切工的智慧人，各都离开自己所作的工，
And all the wise men who did all the work of the sanctuary came, every man from his work which he was doing;
36:5 来告诉摩西说，百姓为耶和华所吩咐，为事奉之工所拿来的，绰绰有余。
And they spoke to Moses, saying, The people are bringing much more than enough for the service of the work which Jehovah commanded us to do.
36:6 摩西发命令，他们就在全营中宣告说，无论男女，不必再为圣所拿什么举祭来；这样才拦住百姓不再拿来了。
And Moses gave commandment; and a proclamation was passed throughout the camp, saying, Let neither man nor woman do any more work for the heave
offering of the sanctuary. So the people were restrained from bringing.
36:7 因为他们所有的材料，够作一切当作的工，而且有余。
For the material they had was sufficient and more than enough for all the work, to do it.
36:8 他们中间，凡心里有智慧作工的，用十幅幕幔作帐幕；这些幕幔是比撒列用捻的细麻，和蓝色、紫色、朱红色线制造的，并用巧匠的手工，绣上基路
伯。
And all the wise in heart among those who did the work made the tabernacle with ten curtains, of fine twined linen and blue and purple and scarlet strands, with
cherubim, the work of a skillful workman. Bezalel made them.
36:9 每幅幕幔长二十八肘，宽四肘，幕幔都是一样的尺寸。
The length of each curtain was twenty-eight cubits, and the width of each curtain, four cubits; all the curtains had the same measurement.
36:10 他使五幅幕幔幅幅相连，又使另五幅幕幔幅幅相连。
And he joined five curtains to one another; and the other five curtains he joined to one another.
36:11 在这相连幕幔的末幅边缘，作蓝色的钮眼；在那相连幕幔的末幅边缘内，也照样作。
And he made loops of blue upon the edge of the one curtain at the end in the set; likewise he made them in the edge of the outermost curtain in the second set.
36:12 在这相连的幕幔上，作五十个钮眼；在那相连幕幔的边缘，也作五十个钮眼，都是两两相对。
He made fifty loops on the one curtain, and he made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that was in the second set; the loops were opposite one another.
36:13 又作五十个金钩，用钩使幕幔彼此相连，成为一整个帐幕。
And he made fifty clasps of gold, and joined the curtains to one another with the clasps; so the tabernacle became one.
36:14 他用山羊毛织十一幅幕幔，作为帐幕以上的罩棚。
And he made curtains of goats' hair for a tent over the tabernacle; eleven cur- ains he made them.
36:15 每幅幕幔长三十肘，宽四肘；十一幅幕幔都是一样的尺寸。
The length of each curtain was thirty cubits, and the width of each curtain, four cubits; the eleven curtains had the same measurement.
36:16 他把五幅幕幔连成一幅，又把六幅幕幔连成一幅。
And he joined five of the curtains by themselves, and six of the curtains by themselves.
36:17 在这相连幕幔的末幅边缘，作五十个钮眼；在那相连幕幔的末幅边缘，也作五十个钮眼。
And he made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that was outermost in the set, and fifty loops he made upon the edge of the curtain which was outermost in
the second set.
36:18 又作五十个铜钩，使罩棚连成一整个。
And he made fifty clasps of bronze to join the tent together, that it might become one.
36:19 并用染红的公羊皮作罩棚的盖；再用海狗皮作罩棚上的顶盖。
And he made a covering for the tent, of rams' skins dyed red, and a covering of porpoise skins above it.
36:20 他用皂荚木作帐幕的竖板。
And he made the boards for the tabernacle of acacia wood, standing up.
95
36:21 每块长十肘，宽一肘半。
Ten cubits was the length of a board, and one and a half cubits, the width of each board.
36:22 每块有两榫相对；帐幕一切的板都是这样作。
Each board had two tenons fitted to one another; thus he did for all the boards of the tabernacle.
36:23 帐幕的南面，作二十块板。
And he made the boards for the tabernacle, twenty boards for the south side southward.
36:24 在这二十块板下，又作四十个银卯座；这块板下有两个卯座接板上的两榫，那块板下也有两个卯座接板上的两榫。
And he made forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards, two sockets under one board for its two tenons and two sockets under the next board for its two
tenons.
36:25 帐幕第二面，就是北面，也作二十块板，
And for the second side of the tabernacle, on the north side, he made twenty boards
36:26 和四十个银卯座；这块板下有两个卯座，那块板下也有两个卯座。
And their forty sockets of silver, two sockets under one board and two sockets under the next board.
36:27 帐幕的后面，就是西面，作六块板。
And for the rear of the tabernacle westward he made six boards.
36:28 帐幕后面的拐角，作两块板。
And two boards he made for the corners of the tabernacle in the rear.
36:29 板下方是双的，板顶端完全连于一个环子；两个拐角的板，都是这样作。
And they were double below, and at its top they were completely joined to a single ring; thus he did to both of them for the two corners.
36:30 有八块板和十六个银卯座，每块板下有两个卯座。
And there were eight boards with their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets; two sockets under every board.
36:31 他用皂荚木作闩，为帐幕这面的板作五条闩，
And he made bars of acacia wood, five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle,
36:32 为帐幕那面的板作五条闩，又为帐幕后面朝西的板作五条闩。
And five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the tabernacle at the rear westward.
36:33 他使板腰间的中闩，从这一头通到那一头。
And he made the middle bar to pass through in the center of the boards from end to end.
36:34 用金将板包裹，又作板上的金环，用以套闩；闩也用金包裹。
And he overlaid the boards with gold and made their rings of gold as holders for the bars, and overlaid the bars with gold.
36:35 他用蓝色、紫色、朱红色线，和捻的细麻织幔子，以巧匠的手工绣上基路伯。
And he made the veil of blue and purple and scarlet strands and fine twined linen; he made it with cherubim, the work of a skillful workman.
36:36 为幔子作四根皂荚木柱子，用金包裹；柱子上有金钩；又为柱子铸了四个银卯座。
And he made for it four pillars of acacia and overlaid them with gold; their hooks were of gold. And he cast for them four sockets of silver.
36:37 拿蓝色、紫色、朱红色线，和捻的细麻，用绣花的手工织帐幕的门帘。
And he made a screen for the entrance of the tent, of blue and purple and scarlet strands and fine twined linen, the work of an embroiderer,
36:38 又为帘子作五根柱子和柱子上的钩子，用金包裹柱顶和柱子上的横杆。柱子的五个卯座，是用铜作的。
And its five pillars with their hooks. And he overlaid their capitals and their connecting rods with gold, and their five sockets were of bronze.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 37 章
37:1 比撒列用皂荚木作柜，长二肘半，宽一肘半，高一肘半；
Next Bezalel made the Ark of acacia wood: two and a half cubits was its length; and one and a half cubits, its width; and one and a half cubits, its height.
37:2 里外包上纯金，四围镶上金牙边。
And he overlaid it with pure gold inside and outside, and made a rim of gold around it.
37:3 又铸四个金环，安在柜的四脚上；这边两环，那边两环。
And he cast four rings of gold for it, on its four feet; and two rings were on the one side of it, and two rings on the other side of it.
37:4 用皂荚木作两根杠，用金包裹。
And he made poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with gold.
37:5 把杠穿在柜旁的环内，用以抬柜。
And he put the poles into the rings on the sides of the Ark to carry the Ark.
37:6 用纯金作遮罪盖，长二肘半，宽一肘半。
And he made an expiation cover of pure gold: two and a half cubits was its length, and one and a half cubits, its width.
37:7 用金子锤出两个基路伯，安在遮罪盖的两端。
And he made two cherubim of gold; of beaten work he made them, at the two ends of the expiation cover,
37:8 这端作一个基路伯，那端作一个基路伯，两端的基路伯与遮罪盖接连一块。
One cherub at the one end and one cherub at the other end; of one piece with the expiation cover he made the cherubim at its two ends.
37:9 两个基路伯在盖上展开翅膀，遮掩遮罪盖；基路伯是脸对脸，朝着遮罪盖。
And the cherubim spread out their wings above the cover, covering the expiation cover with their wings, with their faces toward one another; the faces of the
cherubim were toward the expiation cover.
37:10 他用皂荚木作一张桌子，长二肘，宽一肘，高一肘半。
And he made the table of acacia wood: two cubits was its length, and a cubit its width, and one and a half cubits its height.
37:11 又包上纯金，四围镶上金牙边。
And he overlaid it with pure gold and made a rim of gold around it.
37:12 桌子的四围作一掌宽的框子，框子的四围镶着金牙边。
And he made a frame of a handbreadth around it, and he made a rim of gold for its frame around it.
37:13 又铸了四个金环，安在桌子四个脚的四角上。
96
And he cast for it four rings of gold and put the rings on the four corners that were on its four feet.
37:14 环子靠近框子，可以穿杠抬桌子。
The rings were close to the frame, holders for the poles to carry the table.
37:15 他用皂荚木作两根杠，用金包裹，以便抬桌子。
And he made the poles of acacia wood to carry the table and overlaid them with gold.
37:16 又用纯金作桌子上的器具，就是盘子、调羹、并奠酒的壶和杯。
And he made the utensils which were to be upon the table: its plates and its spoons and its bowls and its pitchers with which to pour out drink offerings, of pure
gold.
37:17 他用纯金作一个灯台。灯台的座和干，与杯、花萼、花苞，都是接连一块锤出来的。
And he made the lampstand of pure gold. He made the lampstand with its base and its shaft of beaten work; its cups, its calyxes, and its blossom buds were of
one piece with it.
37:18 灯台两边杈出六个枝子，这边三个，那边三个。
And there were six branches going out of its sides; three branches of the lampstand out of one of its sides, and three branches of the lampstand out of its other
side;
37:19 这边每枝上有三个杯，形状像杏花，有花萼，有花苞；那边每枝上也有三个杯，形状像杏花，有花萼，有花苞；从灯台杈出来的六个枝子，都是如
此。
Three cups made like almond blossoms in one branch, a calyx and a blossom bud; and three cups made like almond blossoms in the other branch, a calyx and
a blossom bud-so for the six branches going out of the lampstand.
37:20 灯台的干上有四个杯，形状像杏花，有花萼，有花苞。
And on the lampstand were four cups made like almond blossoms, its calyxes and its blossom buds;
37:21 灯台每两个枝子以下有花萼，与灯台接连一块；从灯台杈出来的六个枝子，都是如此；
And a calyx under two branches of one piece with it, and a calyx under two branches of one piece with it, and a calyx under two branches of one piece with it, for
the six branches going out of it.
37:22 花萼和枝子与灯台接连一块，都是一块纯金锤出来的。
Their calyxes and their branches were of one piece with it; all of it was one beaten work of pure gold.
37:23 又用纯金作灯台的七个灯盏，并灯台的灯剪和灯花盘。
And he made its seven lamps, and its tongs, and its firepans, of pure gold.
37:24 他用纯金一他连得，作灯台和灯台的一切器具。
He made it of a talent of pure gold, and all its utensils.
37:25 他用皂荚木作香坛，是四方的，长一肘，宽一肘，高二肘；坛的四角与坛接连一块。
And he made the altar of incense of acacia wood; a cubit was its length, and a cubit its width, square, and two cubits its height; its horns were of one piece with it.
37:26 又用纯金，把坛的上面与坛的四围，并坛的四角包裹；又在坛的四围镶上金牙边。
And he overlaid it with pure gold, its top and its sides around it and its horns; and he made a rim of gold around it.
37:27 作两个金环，安在金牙边以下，在坛相对的两边，可以穿杠，用以抬坛。
And he made for it two golden rings under its rim, on its two sides, on its opposite sides, as holders for poles with which to carry it.
37:28 用皂荚木作两根杠，用金包裹。
And he made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with gold.
37:29 又按调制香品者之法，作圣膏油和纯净馨香的香。
And he made the holy anointing oil and the pure fragrant incense, the work of a perfumer.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 38 章
38:1 他用皂荚木作燔祭坛，是四方的，长五肘，宽五肘，高三肘。
And he made the altar of burnt offering, of acacia wood; five cubits was its length, and five cubits, its width, square; and three cubits, its height.
38:2 在坛的四拐角上作四个角，与坛接连一块，用铜把坛包裹。
And he made its horns upon its four corners; its horns were of one piece with it, and he overlaid it with bronze.
38:3 他作坛的一切器具，就是收灰的盆、铲子、盘子、肉叉、火盆；这一切器具，都是用铜作的。
And he made all the utensils of the altar: the pots and the shovels and the basins, the forks and the firepans; all its utensils he made of bronze.
38:4 又为坛作一个铜网，安在坛四面的围腰板以下，从下达到坛的半腰。
And he made a grating of network of bronze, for the altar, under its ledge beneath, reaching halfway up.
38:5 为铜网的四角铸四个环子，可以穿杠。
And he cast four rings for the four ends of the grating of bronze, as holders for the poles.
38:6 用皂荚木作两根杠，用铜包裹。
And he made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with bronze.
38:7 把杠穿在坛两边的环内，用以抬坛；坛是用板作的，是中空的。
And he put the poles into the rings on the sides of the altar, with which to carry it; he made it hollow, with boards.
38:8 他用铜作洗濯盆和盆座，是用在会幕门前服事之妇人的铜镜作的。
And he made the laver of bronze and its base of bronze, from the mirrors of the serving women who served at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting.
38:9 他作帐幕的院子。院子的南面用捻的细麻作帷子，长一百肘；
And he made the court. On the south side southward the hangings of the court were of fine twined linen, one hundred cubits;
38:10 帷子的柱子二十根，卯座二十个，都是用铜作的；柱子上的钩子和横杆，都是用银作的。
Their twenty pillars and their twenty sockets were of bronze; the hooks of the pillars and their connecting rods were of silver.
38:11 北面也有帷子，长一百肘；帷子的柱子二十根，卯座二十个，都是用铜作的；柱子上的钩子和横杆，都是用银作的。
And on the north side, one hundred cubits; their twenty pillars and their twenty sockets were of bronze; the hooks of the pillars and their connecting rods were of
silver.
38:12 西面也有帷子，宽五十肘；帷子的柱子十根，卯座十个；柱子上的钩子和横杆，都是用银作的。
97
And on the west side there were hangings of fifty cubits, with their ten pillars and their ten sockets; the hooks of the pillars and their connecting rods were of silver.
38:13 东面宽五十肘。
And the width of the east side eastward was fifty cubits.
38:14 门这边的帷子，宽十五肘，帷子的柱子三根，卯座三个；
The hangings for the one side of the gate were fifteen cubits, with their three pillars and their three sockets;
38:15 门那边也是一样；院子的门，左右有帷子，各宽十五肘，帷子的柱子三根，卯座三个。
And so for the other side; on both sides of the gate of the court were hangings of fifteen cubits, with their three pillars and their three sockets.
38:16 院子四面的帷子，都是用捻的细麻作的。
All the hangings around the court were of fine twined linen.
38:17 柱子的卯座是用铜作的，柱子上的钩子和横杆是用银作的，柱顶是用银包裹的。院子一切的柱子，都是用银杆连络的。
And the sockets for the pillars were of bronze; the hooks of the pillars and their connecting rods were of silver; and the overlaying of their capitals was of silver;
and all the pillars of the court were connected with silver.
38:18 院子的门帘是以绣花的手工，用蓝色、紫色、朱红色线，和捻的细麻织成的，宽二十肘，高五肘，与院子的帷子相配；
And the screen for the gate of the court was the work of an embroiderer, of blue and purple and scarlet strands, and fine twined linen; and twenty cubits was the
length, and the height in the width was five cubits, corresponding to the hangings of the court.
38:19 柱子四根，卯座四个，都是用铜作的；柱子上的钩子和横杆，都是用银作的；柱顶是用银包裹的。
And their four pillars and their four sockets were of bronze; their hooks were of silver, and the overlaying of their capitals and their connecting rods were of silver.
38:20 帐幕一切的橛子，和院子四围的橛子，都是用铜作的。
And all the pegs of the tabernacle and of the court all around were of bronze.
38:21 这是见证的帐幕中，利未人事奉所用物件的总数，是照摩西的吩咐，经祭司亚伦的儿子以他玛的手数点的。
This is the sum of the things for the tabernacle, the Tabernacle of the Testimony, as they were counted according to the commandment of Moses for the service of
the Levites by the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.
38:22 凡耶和华所吩咐摩西的，都是犹大支派户珥的孙子乌利的儿子比撒列作的。
And Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made all that Jehovah commanded Moses.
38:23 与他同工的，有但支派中亚希撒抹的儿子亚何利亚伯；他是雕刻匠，又是巧匠，又能用蓝色、紫色、朱红色线，和细麻绣花。
And with him was Oholiab the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, an engraver and a skillful workman and an embroiderer in blue and in purple and in scarlet
strands and in fine linen.
38:24 为圣所一切工作使用所献摇祭的金子，按圣所的舍客勒，有二十九他连得并七百三十舍客勒。
All the gold that was used for the work in all the work of the sanctuary, even the gold of the wave offering, was twenty- nine talents and seven hundred thirty
shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary.
38:25 会中被数点的人所交的银子，按圣所的舍客勒，有一百他连得并一千七百七十五舍客勒。
And the silver of those who were numbered of the assembly was one hundred talents and one thousand seven hundred seventy-five shekels, according to the
shekel of the sanctuary;
38:26 凡被数点的，自二十岁以上的人，有六十万三千五百五十人；按圣所的舍客勒，每人交银子半舍客勒，就是一比加。
A beka a head, that is, half a shekel, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, for everyone enrolled with those who were numbered, from twenty years old and
upward, for six hundred three thousand, five hundred fifty men.
38:27 用那一百他连得银子，铸造圣所的卯座和幔子柱子的卯座；一百他连得共作一百个卯座，每个卯座用一他连得。
And the hundred talents of silver were for casting the sockets of the sanctuary and the sockets of the veil; one hundred sockets for the hundred talents, a talent for
a socket.
38:28 用那一千七百七十五舍客勒银子，作柱子上的钩子，包裹柱顶并作联络的杆。
And of the one thousand seven hundred seventy-five shekels he made hooks for the pillars and overlaid their capitals and made connecting rods for them.
38:29 所献摇祭的铜，有七十他连得并二千四百舍客勒。
And the bronze of the wave offering was seventy talents, and two thousand four hundred shekels.
38:30 用这铜作会幕门口的卯座和铜坛，并坛的铜网和坛的一切器具，
And with it he made the sockets for the entrance of the Tent of Meeting and the bronze altar and the bronze grating for it and all the utensils of the altar
38:31 并院子四围的卯座和院门的卯座，与帐幕一切的橛子，和院子四围所有的橛子。
And the sockets around the court and the sockets of the gate of the court and all the pegs of the tabernacle and all the pegs around the court.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 39 章
39:1 比撒列用蓝色、紫色、朱红色线，以精工制作衣服，用以在圣所供职，又为亚伦作圣衣；是照耶和华所吩咐摩西的。
And from the blue and the purple and the scarlet strands, they made finely worked garments for ministering in the sanctuary, and made the holy garments for
Aaron, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
39:2 他用金线，和蓝色、紫色、朱红色线，并捻的细麻作以弗得；
And Bezalel made the ephod of gold, of blue and purple and scarlet strands, and fine twined linen.
39:3 他们把金子锤成薄片，剪出线来，用巧匠的手工，编织在蓝色、紫色、朱红色线和细麻中。
And they beat the gold into thin sheets and cut them into threads, to work into the blue and into the purple and into the scarlet strands and into the fine linen, the
work of a skillful workman.
39:4 又为以弗得作两条肩带，与以弗得相连，接在以弗得两端。
They made shoulder pieces for it, joined to it; at the two edges it was joined.
39:5 以弗得上巧工织的带子，和以弗得一样的作法，与以弗得接连一块，用以系住，是用金线，和蓝色、紫色、朱红色线，并捻的细麻作的；是照耶和华
所吩咐摩西的。
And the skillfully woven band, which was on it for its fastening, was of one piece with it and like it in workmanship, of gold, of blue and purple and scarlet strands,
and fine twined linen, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
39:6 又琢出两块红玛瑙，镶嵌在金槽上，仿佛刻图章，按着以色列儿子们的名字雕刻。
And they made the onyx stones enclosed in settings of gold, engraved with the engravings of a signet according to the names of the sons of Israel.
98
39:7 他将这两块宝石安在以弗得的两条肩带上，为以色列人作记念石，是照耶和华所吩咐摩西的。
And he put them on the shoulder pieces of the ephod as stones of remembrance for the sons of Israel as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
39:8 他用巧匠的手工作胸牌，和以弗得一样的作法，用金线，和蓝色、紫色、朱红色线，并捻的细麻作成。
And he made the breastplate, the work of a skillful workman, like the work of the ephod, of gold, of blue and purple and scarlet strands, and of fine twined linen.
39:9 胸牌是四方的，叠为两层；这两层长一虎口，宽一虎口。
It was square; they made the breastplate doubled; a span in its length and a span in its width when doubled.
39:10 他们在上面镶嵌四行宝石：第一行是红宝石、黄玉、绿宝石，
And they filled it with four rows of stones. The first row was a row of a sardius, a topaz, and an emerald;
39:11 第二行是红玉、蓝宝石、金钢石，
And the second row, a carbuncle, a sapphire, and a diamond;
39:12 第三行是紫玛瑙、白玛瑙、紫晶，
And the third row, a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst;
39:13 第四行是黄碧玺、红玛瑙、碧玉；这些都镶嵌在金槽中。
And the fourth row, a chrysolite, an onyx, and a jasper. They were enclosed in settings of gold in their enclosures.
39:14 这些宝石，按着以色列儿子们的名字，有十二块；每块刻一个名字，仿佛刻图章，代表十二个支派。
And the stones were according to the names of the sons of Israel, twelve, according to their names like the engravings of a signet, each according to his name,
for the twelve tribes.
39:15 在胸牌上，用纯金以拧绳子的手工作链子。
And they made on the breastplate twisted chains, a cordage work of pure gold.
39:16 又作两个金槽和两个金环，安在胸牌的两端。
And they made two settings of gold and two rings of gold, and put the two rings on the two ends of the breastplate.
39:17 把那两条拧成的金链子，穿在胸牌两端的环子里。
And they put the two cords of gold in the two rings at the ends of the breastplate.
39:18 又把链子的另外两端，接在两槽上，安在以弗得前面的肩带上。
And the two other ends of the two cords they put on the two settings and put them on the shoulder pieces of the ephod at the front of it.
39:19 作两个金环，安在胸牌两端里面的边上，贴近以弗得。
And they made two rings of gold and put them on the two ends of the breastplate on its edge, which was toward the ephod on the inside.
39:20 又作两个金环，安在以弗得前面两条肩带的下边，靠近相接之处，在以弗得巧工织的带子以上。
And they made two rings of gold and put them on the bottom of the two shoulder pieces of the ephod on the front of it, close to the place where it is joined,
above the skillfully woven band of the ephod.
39:21 用蓝细带子，把胸牌的环子与以弗得的环子系住，使胸牌贴在以弗得巧工织的带子上，不至从以弗得松开；是照耶和华所吩咐摩西的。
And they bound the breastplate by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a cord of blue strands, that it might be upon the skillfully woven band of the ephod, and
that the breastplate might not come loose from the ephod, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
39:22 他用编织的手工，作以弗得的外袍，颜色全是蓝的。
And he made the robe of the ephod of woven work, all of blue strands,
39:23 袍上留一领口，在领口周围织出领边，仿佛铠甲的领口，免得破裂。
And the opening of the robe in its center like the opening of a coat of mail, with a binding edge around its opening so that it would not be torn.
39:24 在袍子底边上，用蓝色、紫色、朱红色线，并捻的细麻作石榴。
And they made on the hem of the robe pomegranates of blue and purple and scarlet strands, and twined linen.
39:25 又用纯金作铃，把金铃钉在袍子周围底边上的石榴中间；
And they made bells of pure gold and put the bells between the pomegranates on the hem of the robe all around, between the pomegranates;
39:26 一个金铃一个石榴，一个金铃一个石榴，在袍子周围底边上，用以供职；是照耶和华所吩咐摩西的。
A bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate, on the hem of the robe all around to minister in; as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
39:27 他们用织成的细麻布，为亚伦和他的儿子们作内袍；
And they made the tunics of fine linen of woven work for Aaron and for his sons,
39:28 并用细麻布作顶冠和华美的头巾，用捻的细麻作细麻布裤子；
And the turban of fine linen, and the headdresses of high hats of fine linen, and the linen trousers of fine twined linen,
39:29 又用捻的细麻，并蓝色、紫色、朱红色线，以绣花的手工作腰带；是照耶和华所吩咐摩西的。
And the girding sash of fine twined linen, and blue and purple and scarlet strands, the work of an embroiderer, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
39:30 他们用纯金作圣冠的牌，在上面按刻图章之法，刻着归耶和华为圣的字样。
And they made the plate of the holy crown of pure gold and wrote an inscription upon it, like the engravings of a signet: HOLY TO JEHOVAH.
39:31 又用蓝细带子，将牌系在顶冠上；是照耶和华所吩咐摩西的。
And they tied to it a cord of blue strands to fasten it on the turban above, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
39:32 这样，会幕的帐幕，一切的工就作完了；凡耶和华所吩咐摩西的，以色列人都照样作了。
Thus all the work of the tabernacle of the Tent of Meeting was finished, and the children of Israel did according to all that Jehovah had commanded Moses; so
they did.
39:33 他们送到摩西那里的，有帐幕、罩棚、和帐幕的一切物件，就是钩子、板、闩、柱子和卯座，
And they brought the tabernacle to Moses, the tent and all its furnishings, its clasps, its boards, its bars, and its pillars, and its sockets;
39:34 染红公羊皮的盖、海狗皮的顶盖、和遮掩柜的幔子，
And the covering of rams' skins dyed red, and the covering of porpoise skins, and the veil of the screen;
39:35 见证的柜、柜的杠、和遮罪盖，
The Ark of the Testimony and its poles and the expiation cover;
39:36 桌子、桌子的一切器具、和陈设饼，
The table, all its utensils, and the bread of the Presence;
39:37 纯金的灯台、摆列的灯盏、灯台的一切器具、和点灯的油，
The pure lampstand, its lamps, even the lamps set in order, and all its utensils, and the oil for the light;
99
39:38 金坛，膏油和馨香的香，并会幕门口的帘子，
And the golden altar and the anointing oil and the fragrant incense and the screen for the entrance of the tent;
39:39 铜坛、坛的铜网、坛的杠和坛的一切器具，洗濯盆和盆座，
The bronze altar, and its grating of bronze, its poles, and all its utensils; the laver and its base;
39:40 院子的帷子、帷子的柱子和卯座，院子的门帘、绳子、橛子，并会幕之帐幕一切供事奉使用的器具，
The hangings of the court, its pillars, and its sockets; and the screen for the gate of the court, its cords, and its pegs; and all the utensils for the service of the
tabernacle, for the Tent of Meeting;
39:41 在圣所供职用的精工作的衣服，就是祭司亚伦的圣衣，和他儿子们用以作祭司事奉的衣服。
The finely worked garments for ministering in the sanctuary, the holy garments for Aaron the priest and the garments of his sons for them to serve as priests.
39:42 这一切工作，耶和华怎样吩咐摩西，以色列人就照样作。
According to all that Jehovah had commanded Moses, so the children of Israel did all the work.
39:43 摩西查看一切的工作，看哪，他们都作成了；耶和华怎样吩咐，他们就怎样作了；摩西就给他们祝福。
And Moses saw all the work; and there it was, they had done it; just as Jehovah had commanded, so they had done; and Moses blessed them.
出埃及记 Exodus 第 40 章
40:1 耶和华告诉摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
40:2 正月初一日，你要立起会幕的帐幕，
On the first day of the first month you shall raise up the tabernacle of the Tent of Meeting.
40:3 把见证的柜安放在里面，用幔子将柜遮掩。
And you shall put the Ark of the Testimony there, and you shall screen the Ark with the veil.
40:4 把桌子搬进去，摆列上面的物；把灯台搬进去，放上灯盏。
And you shall bring in the table and arrange its setting, and you shall bring in the lampstand and set up its lamps.
40:5 把烧香用的金坛放在见证的柜前，挂上帐幕的门帘。
And you shall put the golden altar for incense before the Ark of the Testimony and set up the screen of the entrance to the tabernacle.
40:6 把燔祭坛放在会幕的帐幕门前。
And you shall put the altar of burnt offering before the entrance of the tabernacle of the Tent of Meeting.
40:7 把洗濯盆放在会幕和坛之间，在盆里盛水。
And you shall put the laver between the Tent of Meeting and the altar, and put water there.
40:8 又在四围立院帷，把院子的门帘挂上。
And you shall set up the court all around and put up the screen of the gate of the court.
40:9 要拿膏油来，抹帐幕和其中所有的，使帐幕和一切器具分别为圣；帐幕就成为圣。
And you shall take the anointing oil and anoint the tabernacle and all that is in it, and sanctify it and all its utensils; and it shall be holy.
40:10 又要抹燔祭坛和坛的一切器具，使坛分别为圣；坛就成为至圣。
And you shall anoint the altar of burnt offering and all its utensils, and sanctify the altar; and the altar shall be most holy.
40:11 要抹洗濯盆和盆座，使盆分别为圣。
And you shall anoint the laver and its base, and sanctify it.
40:12 要叫亚伦和他儿子们到会幕门口来，用水洗他们。
And you shall bring Aaron and his sons to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting, and wash them with water.
40:13 要给亚伦穿上圣衣，又膏他，使他分别为圣，可以作祭司事奉我；
And you shall put the holy garments upon Aaron, and you shall anoint him and sanctify him that he may serve Me as a priest.
40:14 又要使他的儿子们来，给他们穿上内袍。
You shall also bring his sons and put tunics upon them,
40:15 你怎样膏他们的父亲，也要照样膏他们，使他们作祭司事奉我。他们受膏是为使他们世世代代永远尽祭司的职任。
And you shall anoint them as you have anointed their father that they may serve Me as priests; and their anointing shall be to them for an everlasting priesthood
throughout their generations.
40:16 摩西就这样行；耶和华怎样吩咐他，他就照样行。
Thus Moses did; according to all that Jehovah had commanded him, so he did.
40:17 第二年正月初一日，帐幕就立起来。
And in the first month in the second year, on the first day of the month, the tabernacle was raised up.
40:18 摩西立起帐幕，安上卯座，立上板，穿上闩，立起柱子。
And Moses raised up the tabernacle and put down its sockets and set up its boards and put in its bars and raised up its pillars.
40:19 把罩棚铺在帐幕上，又把罩棚的顶盖盖在其上；是照耶和华所吩咐他的。
And he spread the tent over the tabernacle and put the covering of the tent over it from above, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
40:20 又把见证的版放在柜里，把杠穿在柜的两边，把遮罪盖安在柜上。
Then he took the testimony and put it into the Ark, and he set the poles onto the Ark and put the expiation cover upon the Ark above it.
40:21 把柜抬进帐幕，挂上遮掩柜的幔子，把见证的柜遮掩了；是照耶和华所吩咐他的。
And he brought the Ark into the tabernacle and set up the veil for the screen and screened the Ark of the Testimony, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
40:22 又把桌子放在会幕内，在帐幕北边，在幔子外。
Then he put the table in the Tent of Meeting on the north side of the tabernacle outside the veil.
40:23 在桌子上将饼摆列在耶和华面前；是照耶和华所吩咐他的。
And he arranged the bread in order upon it before Jehovah, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
40:24 又把灯台安放在会幕内，在帐幕南边，与桌子相对，
Then he put the lampstand in the Tent of Meeting opposite the table, on the south side of the tabernacle.
40:25 在耶和华面前放上灯盏；是照耶和华所吩咐他的。
100
And he set up the lamps before Jehovah, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
40:26 把金坛安放在会幕内的幔子前，
Then he put the golden altar in the Tent of Meeting before the veil,
40:27 在坛上烧了馨香的香；是照耶和华所吩咐他的。
And he burnt fragrant incense on it, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
40:28 又挂上帐幕的门帘。
Then he set up the screen of the entrance to the tabernacle.
40:29 在会幕的帐幕门前，安放燔祭坛，把燔祭和素祭献在其上；是照耶和华所吩咐他的。
He also set the altar of burnt offering at the entrance of the tabernacle of the Tent of Meeting and offered upon it the burnt offering and the meal offering, as
Jehovah commanded Moses.
40:30 把洗濯盆安放在会幕和坛之间，盆中盛水，以便洗濯。
And he set the laver between the Tent of Meeting and the altar, and put water there for washing.
40:31 摩西和亚伦并亚伦的儿子们，用这盆里的水洗手洗脚。
And Moses and Aaron and his sons would wash their hands and their feet with water from it;
40:32 他们进会幕或就近坛的时候，便都洗濯；是照耶和华所吩咐他的。
Whenever they went into the Tent of Meeting and whenever they came near the altar, they washed; as Jehovah commanded Moses.
40:33 在帐幕和坛的四围立了院帷，把院子的门帘挂上。这样，摩西就完了工。
And he raised up the court all around the tabernacle and the altar, and put up the screen of the gate of the court. So Moses finished the work.
40:34 当时，云彩遮盖会幕，耶和华的荣光充满了帐幕。
Then the cloud covered the Tent of Meeting, and the glory of Jehovah filled the tabernacle.
40:35 摩西不能进会幕，因为云彩停在其上，并且耶和华的荣光充满了帐幕。
And Moses was not able to enter the Tent of Meeting, because the cloud settled on it, and the glory of Jehovah filled the tabernacle.
40:36 在以色列人所有的行程中，每逢云彩从帐幕收上去，他们就起程；
And whenever the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the children of Israel set out on all their journeys;
40:37 云彩若不收上去，他们就不起程，直等到云彩收上去的日子。
But if the cloud was not taken up, then they did not set out until the day that it was taken up.
40:38 日间有耶和华的云彩在帐幕以上，夜间云中有火，显在以色列全家的眼前；在他们一切的行程中，都是这样。
For the cloud of Jehovah was upon the tabernacle by day, and there was fire in it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel on all their journeys.