26. 以西结书 Ezekiel
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 1 章
1:1 第三十年四月初五日，我在迦巴鲁河边被掳的人中，那时诸天开了，我就看见神的异象。
Now in the thirtieth year, in the fourth month, on the fifth of the month, while I was among the captives by the river Chebar, the heavens were opened and I saw
visions of God.
1:2 正是约雅斤王被掳去第五年，四月初五日，
On the fifth of the month (it was the fifth year of King Jehoiachin's captivity)
1:3 在迦勒底人之地，迦巴鲁河边，耶和华的话特特临到布西的儿子祭司以西结；耶和华的手在那里临到他身上。
The word of Jehovah came expressly to Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans by the river Chebar; and the hand of Jehovah was upon
him there.
1:4 我观看，见暴风从北方刮来，有一朵大云，有火不断的闪烁，周围有光辉；从其中，就是从火中所发出的，看来好像光耀的金银合金。
And I looked, and there came a storm wind from the north, a great cloud and a fire flashing incessantly; and there was a brightness around it, and from the midst
of it there was something like the sight of electrum, from the midst of the fire.
1:5 又从其中显出四个活物的样式来。他们显出来的样子是这样：有人的样式，
And from the midst of it there came the likeness of four living creatures. And this was their appearance: They had the likeness of a man.
1:6 各有四个脸面，四个翅膀。
And every one had four faces, and every one of them had four wings.
1:7 他们的腿是直的，脚掌好像牛犊之蹄，灿烂如明亮的铜。
And their feet were straight feet, and the sole of their feet was like the sole of a calf's foot; and they sparkled like the sight of burnished bronze.
1:8 在四面的翅膀以下有人的手。这四个活物各有脸面和翅膀如下：
And the hands of a man were under their wings on their four sides. And the four of them had their faces and their wings thus:
1:9 他们的翅膀彼此相接；他们行走并不转身，俱各直往前行。
Their wings were joined one to another; they did not turn as they went; each went straight forward.
1:10 至于脸的样式，四活物前面各有人的脸，右面各有狮子的脸，左面各有牛的脸，后面各有鹰的脸。
As for the likeness of their faces, they had the face of a man; and the four of them had the face of a lion on the right side, and the four of them had the face of an
ox on the left side, and the four of them had the face of an eagle.
1:11 他们的脸就是如此。他们的翅膀向上展开；各有两个翅膀彼此相接，两个翅膀遮体。
And thus their faces were. And their wings were spread out upward; two wings of each were joined one to another, and two covered their bodies.
1:12 他们俱各直往前行；灵往那里去，他们就往那里去，行走并不转身。
And each went straight forward; wherever the Spirit was to go, they went; they did not turn as they went.
1:13 至于活物的样式，他们的样子如同烧着的火炭，如同火把的样子；火在活物中间来回闪动，这火有光辉，从火中发出闪电。
As for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was like burning coals of fire, like the appearance of torches; the fire went to and fro among the living
creatures, and the fire was bright; and out of the fire went forth lightning.
1:14 活物往来奔走，好像闪电的样子。
And the living creatures ran to and fro like the appearance of a lightning bolt.
1:15 我正观看活物的时候，见活物的四个脸旁各有一轮在地上。
And as I watched the living creatures, I saw a wheel upon the earth beside the living creatures, for each of their four faces.
1:16 轮的样子和作法，看来好像水苍玉。四轮都是一个样式，样子和作法好像轮中套轮。
The appearance of the wheels and their workmanship were like the sight of beryl. And the four of them had one likeness; that is, their appearance and their
workmanship were as it were a wheel within a wheel.
1:17 轮行走的时候，乃是向四方直行，行走时并不掉转。
Whenever they went, they went in their four directions; they did not turn as they went.
1:18 至于轮辋，高而可畏；四个轮辋周围满了眼睛。
As for their rims, they were high and they were awesome; and the rims of the four of them were full of eyes all around.
1:19 活物行走的时候，轮也在旁边行走；活物从地上升的时候，轮也上升。
And whenever the living creatures went, the wheels went beside them; and whenever the living creatures were lifted up above the earth, the wheels were lifted
up also.
1:20 灵往那里去，活物就往那里去；活物上升，轮也在活物旁边上升，因为活物的灵在轮中。
Wherever the Spirit was to go, they went-wherever the Spirit was to go. And the wheels were lifted up alongside them, for the Spirit of the living creature was in
the wheels.
1:21 那些行走的时候，这些也行走；那些站住的时候，这些也站住；那些从地上升的时候，轮也在旁边上升，因为活物的灵在轮中。
Whenever those went, these went; and whenever those stood still, these stood still; and whenever those were lifted up above the earth, the wheels were lifted up
alongside them; for the Spirit of the living creature was in the wheels.
1:22 活物的头以上有穹苍的样式，看着像可畏的水晶，铺张在活物的头以上。
And over the heads of the living creature there was the likeness of an expanse, like the sight of awesome crystal, stretched forth over their heads above.
1:23 穹苍以下，活物的一对翅膀直张，彼此相对；每个活物另有一对翅膀在两边遮体。
And under the expanse one pair of their wings went straight out, one toward the other; each had another pair covering their bodies on this side and on that side.
1:24 活物行走的时候，我听见翅膀的响声，像大水的声音，像全能者的声音；是哄嚷的声音，像军队的声音。活物站住的时候，便将翅膀垂下。
And I heard the sound of their wings, like the sound of great waters, like the voice of the Almighty, as they went; it was the sound of a tumult, like the sound of an
army. Whenever they stood still, they dropped their wings.
1:25 在他们头以上的穹苍之上有声音。他们站住的时候，便将翅膀垂下。
And there was a voice from above the expanse that was over their heads. When they stood still, they dropped their wings.
1:26 在他们头以上的穹苍之上，有宝座的样式，像蓝宝石的样子；在宝座的样式以上，有一位的样式好像人的样子。
785
And above the expanse that was over their heads was the likeness of a throne, like the appearance of a sapphire stone; and upon the likeness of the throne was
One in appearance like a man, above it.
1:27 我见从祂腰以上，看来好像光耀的金银合金，有仿佛火的样子四面包围；又见从祂腰以下，有仿佛火的样子。祂周围都有光辉。
Then I saw something like the sight of electrum, like the appearance of fire encased all around, from the appearance of His loins and upward; and from the
appearance of His loins and downward, I saw something like the appearance of fire. And there was brightness all around Him.
1:28 下雨的日子，云中虹的样子怎样，周围光辉的样子也是怎样。这就是耶和华荣耀的样式显出来的样子。我一看见就面伏于地，又听见一位说话的声音。
Like the appearance of the rainbow that is in the cloud on a day of rain, such was the appearance of the brightness all around. This was the appearance of the
likeness of the glory of Jehovah. And when I saw it, I fell on my face and I heard the voice of someone speaking.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 2 章
2:1 祂对我说，人子阿，你站起来，我要和你说话。
Then He said to me, Son of man, stand up on your feet, and I will speak with you.
2:2 祂对我说话的时候，灵就进入我里面，使我站起来；我便听见那对我说话者的声音。
And the Spirit entered into me when He spoke to me and caused me to stand up on my feet. And I heard Him who spoke to me.
2:3 祂对我说，人子阿，我差你往悖逆的国民以色列人那里去；他们是悖逆我的，他们和他们的列祖违背我，直到今日。
And He said to me, Son of man, I am sending you to the children of Israel, to rebellious heathen who have rebelled against Me; they and their fathers have
transgressed against Me unto this very day;
2:4 这众子厚颜无耻，心里刚硬。我差你往他们那里去，你要对他们说，主耶和华如此说。
And they are impudent and hard- hearted children. I am sending you to them, and you shall say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah.
2:5 他们或听，或不听，(他们原是悖逆之家，)必知道在他们中间有了申言者。
And they, whether they hear or not-for they are a rebellious house-they will know that a prophet has been in their midst.
2:6 人子阿，你不要怕他们，也不要怕他们的话；虽有荆棘和蒺藜在你那里，你又住在蝎子中间，不要怕他们的话，也不要因他们的脸色惊惶；他们原是
悖逆之家。
And you, son of man, do not be afraid of them and do not be afraid of their words; though thistles and thorns are with you and you dwell among scorpions, do
not be afraid of their words and do not be dismayed at their faces; for they are a rebellious house.
2:7 他们或听，或不听，你要将我的话告诉他们；他们原是悖逆的。
And you shall speak My words to them, whether they hear or not; for they are rebellious.
2:8 人子阿，你要听我对你所说的话，不要悖逆，像那悖逆之家一样。你要开口吃我所赐给你的。
But you, son of man, hear what I say to you; do not be rebellious like that rebellious house. Open your mouth and eat what I give you.
2:9 我观看，见有一只手向我伸出来，手中有一书卷。
And I looked, and there was a hand, put forth toward me; and in it there was a scroll book.
2:10 祂将书卷在我面前展开，书卷正面背面都写着字，其上所写的是哀号、叹息、灾祸的话。
And He spread it before me. And it was written on the front and back, and on it were written lamentations, mourning, and woe.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 3 章
3:1 祂对我说，人子阿，要吃你所得的；要吃这书卷，然后去对以色列家讲说。
Then He said to me, Son of man, eat what you find; eat this scroll, and go, speak to the house of Israel.
3:2 于是我开口，祂就使我吃那书卷。
So I opened my mouth, and He gave me that scroll to eat.
3:3 祂又对我说，人子阿，要把我所赐给你的这书卷吃下，充满你的肚腹。我就吃了，口中觉得其甜如蜜。
And He said to me, Son of man, feed your stomach and fill your inward parts with this scroll that I am giving you. And I ate it, and it was like honey in my mouth in
its sweetness.
3:4 祂对我说，人子阿，你往以色列家那里去，对他们讲说我的话。
Then He said to me, Son of man, go to the house of Israel and speak My words to them.
3:5 你奉差遣不是往那说话深奥、言语难懂的民那里去，乃是往以色列家去；
For you are being sent not to a people of strange speech and unintelligible language but to the house of Israel,
3:6 不是往那说话深奥、言语难懂的众多民族那里去，他们的话语是你听不懂的。我若差你往他们那里去，他们必定听你。
Not to many peoples of strange speech and unintelligible language, whose words you cannot understand. If I were to send you to such, they would hear you;
3:7 以色列家却不肯听你，因为他们不肯听我；原来以色列全家都是额坚心硬的。
But the house of Israel is not willing to hear you, for they are not willing to hear Me, because all the house of Israel is obstinate and stiff-hearted.
3:8 看哪，我使你的脸硬过他们的脸，使你的额硬过他们的额。
I am now making your face as hard as their faces and your forehead as hard as their foreheads.
3:9 我使你的额像金钢石，比火石更硬；你不要怕他们，也不要因他们的脸色惊惶；他们原是悖逆之家。
Like adamant, harder than flint, I am making your forehead; do not be afraid of them or dismayed at their faces, for they are a rebellious house.
3:10 祂又对我说，人子阿，我对你所说的一切话，你要心里领受，用耳听闻。
Moreover He said to me, Son of man, all My words that I will speak to you take into your heart and hear with your ears.
3:11 你往你本族被掳的人那里去，他们或听，或不听，你要对他们讲说，告诉他们这是主耶和华说的。
And go to those of the captivity, to the children of your people, and speak to them and tell them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah; whether they hear or not.
3:12 那时，灵将我举起，我就听见在我身后有震动轰轰的声音，说，从耶和华的所在显出来的荣耀是当受颂赞的！
Then the Spirit lifted me up, and I heard behind me the sound of a great quaking, saying: Blessed be the glory of Jehovah from His place!
3:13 我又听见那些活物翅膀相碰的声音，与活物旁边轮子的声音，以及震动轰轰的声音。
And I heard the sound of the wings of the living creatures touching one another and the sound of the wheels alongside them and the sound of a great quaking.
786
3:14 于是灵将我举起，把我带去；我在苦恼中，灵里忿激的前去，并且耶和华的手在我身上刚强有力。
And the Spirit lifted me up and took me away; and I went in bitterness, in the rage of my spirit, and the hand of Jehovah was strong upon me.
3:15 我就来到提勒亚毕，那些住在迦巴鲁河边被掳的人那里；在他们所住的地方，我在他们中间惊惶恐惧的坐了七日。
And I came to those of the captivity at Tel-abib who dwelt by the river Chebar; and where they dwelt, there I sat for seven days in their midst appalled.
3:16 过了七日，耶和华的话临到我，说，
And at the end of seven days the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
3:17 人子阿，我立了你作以色列家守望的人，你要听我口中的话，替我警戒他们。
Son of man, I have appointed you as a watchman to the house of Israel, and you will hear the word from My mouth and will give them warnings from Me.
3:18 我何时指着恶人说，你必要死；你若不警戒他，也不劝戒恶人，使他离开恶行，得以存活，那恶人必因自己的罪孽而死，我却要从你手中追讨流他血
的罪。
When I say to a wicked one, You shall surely die, and you do not warn him nor speak to warn the wicked one from his wicked way that he may live, that wicked
one will die for his iniquity, but his blood I will require at your hand.
3:19 倘若你警戒恶人，他仍不转离自己的恶，也不离开恶行，他必因自己的罪孽而死，你却救了自己的性命。
Yet if you warn the wicked one and he does not turn from his wickedness nor from his wicked way, he will die for his iniquity and you have delivered your soul.
3:20 再者，义人何时转离自己的义而有了罪孽，我将绊脚石放在他面前，他就必死；因你没有警戒他，他必死在罪中，他素来所行的义不被记念；我却要
从你手中追讨流他血的罪。
And when a righteous one turns from his righteousness and commits iniquity, and I put a stumbling block before him, he will die. Because you did not warn him,
he will die in his sin, and his righteous actions, which he had done, will not be remembered; but his blood I will require at your hand.
3:21 倘若你警戒义人，使义人不犯罪，他就不犯罪；他因受警戒就必存活，你也救了自己的性命。
And if you warn a righteous one so that the righteous one does not sin, and he does not sin, he shall surely live, because he was warned; and you have delivered
your soul.
3:22 耶和华的手在那里临到我身上；祂对我说，你起来，出到平原去，我要在那里和你说话。
And the hand of Jehovah was upon me there; and He said to me, Arise, go forth to the plain, and there I will speak with you.
3:23 于是我起来，出到平原去。不料，耶和华的荣耀立在那里，正如我在迦巴鲁河边所见的荣耀一样，我就面伏于地。
So I arose and went forth to the plain. And the glory of Jehovah stood there, like the glory that I had seen by the river Chebar; and I fell on my face.
3:24 于是灵进入我里面，使我站起来；祂对我说，你进去，把自己关在房屋里。
Then the Spirit entered into me and caused me to stand up on my feet; and He spoke with me and said to me, Go, shut yourself up within your house.
3:25 至于你，人子阿，人必用绳索捆绑你，你就不能出去在他们中间来往。
As for you, son of man, they will now put ropes on you and bind you with them so that you cannot go out among them.
3:26 我必使你的舌头贴住上膛，以致你哑口，不能作责备他们的人；他们原是悖逆之家。
And I will make your tongue stick to the roof of your mouth so that you will be dumb and not one who reproves them, for they are a rebellious house.
3:27 但我对你说话的时候，必开你的口，你就要对他们说，主耶和华如此说，听的可以听，不听的任他不听；他们原是悖逆之家。
But when I speak with you, I will open your mouth, and you will say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Let him who hears hear, and let him who refuses refuse;
for they are a rebellious house.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 4 章
4:1 人子阿，你要拿一块砖，摆在你面前，将一座耶路撒冷城画在其上；
Now you, son of man, take a tile and set it before you; and inscribe on it a city, Jerusalem;
4:2 又围困这城，造攻城土墙，筑围城土垒，安营攻击，在四围架设撞锤。
And lay a siege against it, and build a siege wall against it, and cast up a mound against it, and set up camps against it, and set battering rams all around it.
4:3 又要拿个铁盘，放在你和城的中间，作为铁墙；你要正面对着这城，城就被围困；你要围攻这城。这要作以色列家的兆头。
And take an iron plate and set it as an iron wall between you and the city, and set your face against it; and it will be under siege, and you shall lay siege against
it. This will be a sign to the house of Israel.
4:4 你要向左侧卧，承当以色列家的罪孽；要按你向左侧卧的日数，担当他们的罪孽。
Moreover lie down on your left side and lay the iniquity of the house of Israel on it; you shall bear their iniquity for the number of days that you lie on it.
4:5 我已将他们罪孽的年数定为你向左侧卧的日数，就是三百九十日；你要这样担当以色列家的罪孽。
And I have appointed to you the years of their iniquity, according to the number of the days, three hundred and ninety days; and you will bear the iniquity of the
house of Israel.
4:6 你满了这些日子，还要向右侧卧，担当犹大家的罪孽四十日；我给你定规一日顶一年。
And when you have completed them, lie down again, on your right side; and you shall bear the iniquity of the house of Judah for forty days; I have appointed to
you a day for each year.
4:7 你要正面对着被围困的耶路撒冷，露出膀臂，说预言攻击这城。
Then toward the siege of Jerusalem you shall set your face with your arm bared, and you shall prophesy against it.
4:8 看哪，我要用绳索捆绑你，使你不能辗转反侧，直等你满了围困城的日子。
And I will then put ropes on you so that you cannot turn from one side to the other, until you have completed the days of your siege.
4:9 你要取小麦、大麦、豆子、红豆、小米、粗麦，装在一个器皿中，用以给自己作饼；要按你侧卧的日数，就是三百九十日，吃这饼。
And take wheat, barley, beans, lentils, millet, and spelt, and put them in one vessel, and make them into bread for yourself. For the number of days that you lie
on your side, for three-hundred ninety days, you shall eat it.
4:10 你的食粮要按分量吃，每日二十舍客勒，定时而吃。
And your food which you eat shall be twenty shekels a day by weight; at fixed times you shall eat it.
4:11 你喝水也要按分量，每日喝一欣的六分之一，定时而喝。
And the water that you drink shall be a sixth of a hin by measure; at fixed times you shall drink it.
4:12 你吃这饼像吃大麦饼一样，要用人粪在众人眼前烧烤。
And as a barley cake you shall eat it; on human excrement you shall bake it in their sight.
787
4:13 耶和华说，以色列人在我所赶他们到的各国中，也必这样吃不洁净的食物。
And Jehovah said, Thus shall the children of Israel eat their bread unclean among the nations to which I will drive them.
4:14 我说，哎，主耶和华阿！我素来未曾被玷污；从幼年到如今，我没有吃过自死的，或被野兽撕裂的，那可憎的肉也未曾入我的口。
Then I said, Ah, Lord Jehovah. Indeed my soul has never been defiled; for from my youth until now I have not eaten anything that has died of itself or has been
torn to pieces, nor has any abominable flesh entered into my mouth.
4:15 于是祂对我说，看哪，我给你牛粪代替人粪，你可以在其上烤制你的饼。
And He said to me, See, I give you cow's dung instead of human excrement, and you will make your bread over it.
4:16 祂又对我说，人子阿，我必在耶路撒冷断绝他们所倚靠的粮食。他们吃饼要按分量，忧虑而吃；喝水也要按分量，惊惶而喝；
Then He said to me, Son of man, I am now breaking the staff of bread in Jerusalem; and they will eat bread by weight and in anxiety, and they will drink water by
measure and in horror;
4:17 使他们缺粮缺水，彼此惊惶，因自己的罪孽消灭。
Because they will lack bread and water, and they will be horrified at each other and will rot in their iniquity.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 5 章
5:1 人子阿，你要拿一把快刀，当作剃头刀，用这刀剃你的头发和你的胡须，拿天平称须发，分成三分。
And you, son of man, take a sharp sword; take it as a barber's razor and pass it over your head and over your beard; then take scales to weigh with, and divide
the hair.
5:2 围困城的日子满了，你要将三分之一在城中用火焚烧；又拿三分之一在城的四围用刀砍碎；又将三分之一扬在风中，我也要拔刀追赶。
One third you shall burn in the middle of the city when the days of the siege are fulfilled; and you shall take a third and strike it with the sword all around the city;
and one third you shall scatter to the wind, and I will draw a sword after them.
5:3 你要从其中取几根包在衣边里，
And you shall take from there a few in number and bind them in the edges of your garment.
5:4 再从这几根中取些扔在火中焚烧，从那里必有火出来烧及以色列全家。
And you shall take again from them and cast them into the midst of the fire; and you shall burn them in the fire; from them fire will go forth against all the house
of Israel.
5:5 主耶和华如此说，这就是耶路撒冷；我曾将她安置在列邦之中，列国都在她的四围。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, This is Jerusalem; I have set her in the midst of the nations, and around her are countries.
5:6 但她行恶，违背我的典章，过于列国；干犯我的律例，过于四围的列邦；因为她弃绝我的典章，不遵行我的律例。
But she has rebelled against My judgments in wickedness more than the nations and against My statutes more than the countries that surround her, for they
have rejected My judgments and have not walked in My statutes.
5:7 所以主耶和华如此说，因为你们纷争过于四围的列国，没有遵行我的律例，没有谨守我的典章，也没有谨守你们四围列国的规例；
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because you have been more turbulent than the nations that surround you and have not walked in My statutes and have
not kept My judgments and have not even kept the judgments of the nations that surround you;
5:8 所以主耶和华如此说，看哪，连我也与你反对，我必在列国的眼前，在你中间，施行审判。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Indeed I, even I, am against you, and I will execute judgments in your midst in the sight of the nations.
5:9 并且因你一切可憎的事，我要在你中间行我所未曾行的，以后我也不再照着行。
And I will do among you that which I have not done and the like of which I will never do again, because of all your abominations.
5:10 因此，在你中间父亲要吃儿子，儿子要吃父亲；我必在你身上施行审判，我必将你余剩的民分散四方。
Therefore fathers will eat the sons in your midst, and sons will eat their fathers; and I will execute judgments upon you, and I will scatter all your remnant toward
all the winds.
5:11 主耶和华说，因此，我指着我的生存起誓，因你用一切可憎的物、可厌的事玷污了我的圣所，故此，我定要收回我的眼目，我眼必不顾惜你，我也不
可怜你。
Therefore as I live, declares the Lord Jehovah, surely because you have defiled My sanctuary with all your detestable things and all your abominations, therefore I
will also withdraw My eye that it not pity you, nor will I spare.
5:12 你的民三分之一必在你中间遭瘟疫而死，因饥荒消灭；三分之一必在你四围倒在刀下；我必将三分之一分散四方，并要拔刀追赶他们。
One third of you will die by pestilence, and they will be consumed by famine in the midst of you; and one third will fall by the sword surrounding you; and one
third I will scatter toward all the winds, and I will draw a sword after them.
5:13 这样我的怒气才得以发尽；我向他们发的忿怒止息了，自己就得着安慰。我在他们身上发尽我的忿怒时，他们就知道我耶和华所说的是出于嫉妒。
Thus My anger will be spent, and I will cause My wrath to rest upon them, and I will be comforted; and they will know that I, Jehovah, have spoken in My zeal
when I spend My wrath upon them.
5:14 并且我必使你在四围的列国中，在经过的众人眼前，成了荒凉和羞辱。
Moreover I will make you a desolation and a reproach among the nations that surround you, in the sight of all who pass by.
5:15 这样，我必以怒气和忿怒，并烈怒的责备，向你施行审判；那时，你就在四围的列国中成为羞辱、讥刺、警戒、惊骇。这是我耶和华说的。
Thus she will be a reproach and a taunt, a warning and a horror, to the nations that surround you, when I execute judgments upon you in anger and wrath and
furious rebukes. I, Jehovah, have spoken.
5:16 我要将饥荒的恶箭射在你们身上，这箭是能毁灭人的，我要射出毁灭你们；那时，我要加增你们的饥荒，断绝你们所倚靠的粮食。
When I send against them the evil arrows of famine, which are for destruction and which I will send to destroy you, I will increase the famine upon you and will
break your staff of bread.
5:17 我要打发饥荒和恶兽到你那里，叫你丧子；瘟疫和流血的事也必盛行在你那里，我也要使刀剑临到你。这是我耶和华说的。
Thus I will send upon you famine and evil beasts, and they will make you childless; and pestilence and blood will pass through you, and I will bring a sword upon
you. I, Jehovah, have spoken.
788
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 6 章
6:1 耶和华的话临到我，说，
And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
6:2 人子阿，你要面向以色列的众山，说预言攻击它们，
Son of man, set your face toward the mountains of Israel, and prophesy against them,
6:3 说，以色列的众山哪，要听主耶和华的话。主耶和华对大小山冈、大小山谷如此说，我必使刀剑临到你们，也必毁灭你们的邱坛。
And say, Mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord Jehovah. Thus says the Lord Jehovah to the mountains and the hills, to the ravines and the valleys, I am
now bringing a sword upon you, and I will destroy your high places.
6:4 你们的祭坛必然荒凉，你们的日像必被打碎；我要使你们被杀的人倒在你们的偶像面前。
And your altars will be desolated, and your sun images will be broken; and I will make your slain fall before your idols.
6:5 我要将以色列人的尸首放在他们的偶像面前，将你们的骸骨抛散在你们祭坛的四围。
And I will lay the corpses of the children of Israel before their idols, and I will scatter your bones around your altars.
6:6 在你们一切居住的地方，城邑要变为荒场，邱坛必然凄凉，使你们的祭坛荒废凄凉，你们的偶像被打碎除掉，你们的日像被砍倒，你们所制作的被除
灭。
In all the places that you dwell the cities will be laid waste and the high places will be desolated, so that your altars may be laid waste and desolated, and your
idols may be broken and brought to an end, and your sun images may be cut down, and your works may be blotted out.
6:7 被杀的人必倒在你们中间，你们就知道我是耶和华。
And the slain will fall in your midst, and you will know that I am Jehovah.
6:8 但我要留下余民，你们分散在各地的时候，在列邦中必有脱离刀剑的人。
But I will leave a remnant, in that you will have those who have escaped the sword among the nations, when you are scattered among the countries.
6:9 你们那些脱离刀剑的人必在所掳到的各国中记念我，我为他们心中何等伤破，是因他们淫荡的心离弃我，他们邪淫的眼跟随偶像。他们因所行的恶，
因一切可憎的事，必看自己为可厌恶的。
And those of you who escape will remember Me among the nations to which they are carried away, how I am broken with their heart of harlotry, which turned
away from Me, and with their eyes that go as harlots after their idols; and they will loathe themselves in their own sight for the evils that they have done, for all
their abominations.
6:10 他们必知道我是耶和华；我说要使这灾祸临到他们身上，并非空话。
And they will know that I am Jehovah; I have not said in vain that I would do this ill to them.
6:11 主耶和华如此说，你当拍手顿足，说，哀哉，以色列家行这一切邪恶可憎的事！他们必倒在刀剑、饥荒、瘟疫之下。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Clap your hands and stamp your foot and say, Alas for all the evil abominations of the house of Israel! for they will fall by sword,
famine, and pestilence.
6:12 在远处的，必遭瘟疫而死；在近处的，必倒在刀剑之下；那存留被围困的，必因饥荒而死；这样我才在他们身上发尽我的忿怒。
He who is far off will die by the pestilence, and he who is near will fall by the sword, and he who is left remaining and is besieged will die by the famine; thus I will
spend My wrath on them.
6:13 他们被杀的人倒在他们祭坛四围的偶像中，在各高冈、各山顶、各青翠树下、各茂密的橡树下，就是他们献怡爽香气的祭给一切偶像的地方；那时，
你们就知道我是耶和华。
Then you will know that I am Jehovah, when their slain are among their idols around their altars, on every high hill, on all the mountaintops, under every green
tree, and under every leafy terebinth, the places where they offered a sweet savor to all their idols.
6:14 我必伸手攻击他们，使那地，就是他们一切居住的地方，比第伯拉他的旷野更荒凉；他们就知道我是耶和华。
So I will stretch out My hand against them and will make the land desolate, indeed, more desolate than the wilderness of Diblath, in all the places that they dwell;
and they will know that I am Jehovah.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 7 章
7:1 耶和华的话又临到我，说，
And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
7:2 人子阿，主耶和华对以色列地如此说，结局到了！结局临到了这地的四境。
Now you, son of man, thus says the Lord Jehovah to the land of Israel, An end! The end has come upon the four corners of the land.
7:3 现在结局已经临到你，我必发出我的怒气攻击你，也必按你的行径审判你，照你一切可憎的事报应你。
Now the end is upon you. And I will send My anger against you and will judge you according to your ways, and I will bring upon you all your abominations.
7:4 我眼必不顾惜你，我也不可怜你，却要按你的行径报应你，照你可憎的事报应在你中间；你就知道我是耶和华。
And My eye will not pity you, nor will I spare; but I will bring your ways upon you, and your abominations will be in your midst; and you will know that I am
Jehovah.
7:5 主耶和华如此说，有灾祸，有独一的灾祸！看哪，已经来到了。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Ill, a unique ill! It has now come.
7:6 结局来到了，结局来到了！已经醒起攻击你；看哪，已经来到了。
An end is coming; the end is coming! It has awakened against you; it has now come.
7:7 那地的居民哪，所定的灾祸已经临到你；时候到了，日子近了，乃是哄嚷并非在山上欢呼的日子。
Doom has come to you, you who inhabit the land; the time has come; the day is near-tumult and not the joyful shout on the mountains.
7:8 我快要将我的忿怒倾倒在你身上，向你发尽我的怒气；我要按你的行径审判你，照你一切可憎的事报应你。
Now I will shortly pour out My wrath on you and spend My anger against you; and I will judge you according to your ways and bring all your abominations upon
you.
7:9 我眼必不顾惜你，我也不可怜你。我必按你的行径报应你，照你可憎的事报应在你中间；你就知道击打你的是我耶和华。
My eye will not pity, nor will I spare. I will render to you according to your ways, and your abominations will be in your midst; and you will know that it is I, Jehovah,
who strikes.
789
7:10 看哪，那日子已经来到，所定的灾祸已经发出。杖已经开花，骄傲已经发芽；
Indeed the day-it has now come. Doom has gone forth. The rod has blossomed; pride has budded;
7:11 强暴兴起，成了邪恶的杖。他们无一存留，他们的群众没有了，他们的财宝没有了，他们中间也没有得尊荣的。
Violence has risen up as a rod of wickedness. Nothing of them remains: nothing of their multitude, nothing of their wealth, and no eminence among them.
7:12 时候到了，日子近了；买主不必欢喜，卖主也不必悲哀，因为烈怒已经临到那地的众人身上。
The time has come; the day has drawn near. Let not the buyer rejoice, nor the seller mourn; for wrath is against all their multitude.
7:13 卖主虽然在活人中间活着，却不能归回再得所卖的，因为这关于那地众人的异象，必无转圜；没有人能凭自己的罪孽保全自己的性命。
For the seller will not return to what he has sold, while they live among the living; for the vision, which regards all the land's multitude, will not be turned; not one
of them will assure his life by his iniquity.
7:14 他们已经吹角，预备齐全，却无一人出战，因为我的烈怒临到那地众人身上。
They have blown the trumpet and have made everything ready, but no one goes to the battle; for My wrath is against all the land's multitude.
7:15 外有刀剑，内有瘟疫、饥荒：在田野的，必死于刀剑；在城中的，必被饥荒、瘟疫吞灭。
The sword is outside, and pestilence and famine are inside: He who is in the field will die by the sword, and he who is in the city will be devoured by famine and
pestilence.
7:16 其中所逃脱的就必逃脱，他们必在山上，各人因自己的罪孽发出悲声，好像谷中的鸽子哀鸣。
And those of them who escape will escape, and they will be on the mountains like doves of the valleys, all of them mourning, each for his iniquity.
7:17 手都发软，膝弱如水。
All hands will drop, and all knees will melt into water.
7:18 他们要用麻布束腰，战兢要覆盖他们；众人脸上羞愧，头上光秃。
And they will gird themselves with sackcloth, and shuddering will cover them; and on all their faces there will be shame, and baldness on all their heads.
7:19 他们要将银子抛在街上，将金子当作污秽之物。当耶和华盛怒发作的日子，他们的金银不能救他们，不能使他们的魂满足，也不能使他们的肚腹饱满，
因为他们的罪孽作了他们的绊脚石。
Their silver will they cast into the streets, and their gold will be an impurity; their silver and their gold will not be able to deliver them on the day of Jehovah's
overflowing wrath. They cannot satisfy their souls nor fill their inward parts, for their iniquity has become a stumbling block to them.
7:20 他们将祂华美的装饰变作夸耀，并用以制造可憎可厌的像；所以我使这些装饰成为他们的污秽之物。
And they turned the beauty of His ornaments into pride; and they made the images of their abominations, of their detestable things, with it; therefore I make it an
impurity to them.
7:21 我必将这些交在外邦人手中为掠物，给地上的恶人为掳物；他们也必亵渎这些。
And I will give it into the hands of strangers as plunder and to the wicked of the earth as spoil, and they will profane it.
7:22 我必转脸不顾以色列人，他们要亵渎我隐密之处，强盗也必进去亵渎。
I will also turn My face from them, and they will profane My secret place; indeed the robbers will enter it and profane it.
7:23 要制造锁炼，因为这地满了流血的罪案，城里充满强暴的事。
Make a chain, for the land is full of bloody crimes and the city is full of vio- lence.
7:24 所以我必使列国中最恶的人来占据他们的房屋；我必使强壮人所夸耀的止息，他们的圣处都要被亵渎。
Therefore I will bring the worst of the nations, and they will possess their houses; and I will put an end to the pride of the strong, and their holy places will be
profaned.
7:25 痛苦来到了，他们求平安，却没有平安。
Anguish comes; and they seek peace, but there is none.
7:26 灾害加上灾害而来，风声接连风声而至；他们必向申言者求异象，但祭司的训诲、长老的谋略，都必断绝。
Disaster upon disaster will come, and there will be rumor upon rumor. Then they will seek a vision from a prophet, but instruction will perish from the priest, and
counsel from the elders.
7:27 君王要悲哀，首领要披惊恐为衣，这地百姓的手都要发颤。我必照他们的行径待他们，按他们的判断审判他们；他们就知道我是耶和华。
The king will mourn, and the prince will be clothed with horror, and the hands of the people of the land will tremble. According to their ways I will deal with them,
and by their judgments I will judge them; and they will know that I am Jehovah.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 8 章
8:1 第六年六月初五日，我坐在家中，犹大的众长老坐在我面前，在那里主耶和华的手临到我身上。
And in the sixth year, in the sixth month, on the fifth of the month, as I sat in my house and the elders of Judah sat before me, the hand of the Lord Jehovah fell
upon me there.
8:2 我观看，见有一形像，仿佛火的样子：从祂腰以下有火的样子，从祂腰以上有光辉的样子，看来像光耀的金银合金。
Then I looked, and there was a likeness like the appearance of fire: from His loins and downward, the appearance of fire; and from His loins and upward
something like the appearance of brightness, like the sight of electrum.
8:3 祂伸出一只手的样式，抓住我的一绺头发；灵就将我举到天地之间，在神的异象中，带我到耶路撒冷朝北的内院门口，在那里有触动主妒忌之偶像的
座位，就是惹动妒忌的。
And He stretched out the form of a hand and took me by a lock of my head; and the Spirit lifted me up between the earth and heaven and brought me to
Jerusalem in the visions of God, to the entrance of the gate of the inner court that faces north, where the seat of the idol of jealousy was, which provokes to
jealousy.
8:4 在那里有以色列神的荣耀，显出来的样子与我在平原所见的一样。
And the glory of the God of Israel was there, like the appearance that I saw in the plain.
8:5 祂对我说，人子阿，你举目向北观看。我就举目向北观看，见祭坛门的北边，在门口有这触动主妒忌的偶像。
Then He said to me, Son of man, Lift up your eyes now toward the north. Thus I lifted up my eyes toward the north, and there, toward the north at the altar gate,
was this idol of jealousy at the entry.
8:6 祂又对我说，人子阿，以色列家所行的，就是在这里行这大大可憎的事，使我远离我的圣所，你看见了么？你还要看见更大可憎的事。
790
And He said to me, Son of man, do you see what they are doing, the great abominations that the house of Israel is committing here, that I should be far from My
sanctuary? But you will yet see greater abominations.
8:7 祂领我到院门口；我观看，见墙上有一洞。
Then He brought me to the entrance of the court; and I looked, and there was a hole in the wall.
8:8 祂对我说，人子阿，你要挖墙。我一挖墙，见有一门。
And He said to me, Son of man, dig now through the wall. So I dug through the wall, and there was now an entrance.
8:9 祂说，你进去，看他们在这里所行邪恶可憎的事。
And He said to me, Go and see the wicked abominations that they are committing here.
8:10 我进去观看，见四面墙上雕 各样爬物和可憎走兽的像，并以色列家一切的偶像。
Thus I entered and looked, and there were every form of creeping thing and detestable beast and all the idols of the house of Israel, engraved on the wall all
around.
8:11 在这些像前有以色列家的长老七十人站立，沙番的儿子雅撒尼亚也站在其中，各人手里拿着自己的香炉，烟云的香气上腾。
And standing before them were seventy men of the elders of the house of Israel, with Jaazaniah the son of Shaphan standing among them, each with his censer
in his hand and the smell of the incense cloud went up.
8:12 祂对我说，人子阿，以色列家的长老，各人在雕像屋里暗中所行的，你看见了么？因他们说，耶和华看不见我们；耶和华已经离弃这地。
And He said to me, Do you see, son of man, what the elders of the house of Israel do in the dark, each in the room of his engraved images? For they say,
Jehovah does not see us; Jehovah has forsaken the land.
8:13 祂又说，你还要看见他们行更大可憎的事。
And He said to me, You will yet again see greater abominations that they are committing.
8:14 于是祂领我到耶和华殿外院朝北的门口；在那里有妇女坐着，为搭模斯哭泣。
Then He brought me to the entrance of the gate of the house of Jehovah that was toward the north; and women weeping for Tammuz were sitting there.
8:15 祂对我说，人子阿，你看见了么？你还要看见比这些更大可憎的事。
And He said to me, Do you see, son of man? You will yet again see greater abominations than these.
8:16 祂又领我到耶和华殿的内院；在耶和华的殿门口，在廊子和祭坛之间，约有二十五个人，背向耶和华的殿，面向东方；他们正朝着东方拜日头。
Then He brought me into the inner court of the house of Jehovah; and there, at the entrance of the temple of Jehovah, between the porch and the altar, were
about twenty-five men, with their backs toward the temple of Jehovah and their faces toward the east; and they were worshipping the sun toward the east.
8:17 祂对我说，人子阿，你看见了么？犹大家在这里行这些可憎的事，岂是小事么？他们又使这地满了强暴，再三惹我发怒，看哪，他们手拿枝条举向鼻
前。
And He said to me, Do you see this, son of man? Is it too light a thing for the house of Judah to commit the abominations that they commit here, that they also fill
the land with violence and again and again provoke Me to anger? And now they are putting the branch to their nose.
8:18 因此，我也要在忿怒中行事。我眼必不顾惜，我也不可怜他们；他们虽向我耳中大声呼求，我还是不听。
Therefore I will also deal with them in wrath. My eye will not pity, nor will I spare; and though they cry in My ears with a loud voice, I will not listen to them.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 9 章
9:1 祂向我耳中大声喊叫说，你们监管这城的，各人要手里拿着灭命的兵器前来。
Then He cried out in my ears with a loud voice, saying, Draw near, you who oversee the city, each with his destroying weapon in his hand.
9:2 看哪，有六个人从朝北上门的方向而来，各人手拿杀人的兵器；内中有一人身穿细麻衣，腰间带著书记的墨盒子。他们进来，站在铜祭坛旁边。
And then six men came from the direction of the upper gate, which faces north, each with his shattering weapon in his hand; and there was one man among
them, clothed in linen, with a scribe's inkhorn by his side. And they went and stood beside the bronze altar.
9:3 以色列神的荣耀本在基路伯上，现今从那里升到殿的门槛。祂将那身穿细麻衣、腰间带著书记墨盒子的人召来。
And the glory of the God of Israel went up from the cherub on which it had been to the threshold of the house. And He called out to the man clothed in linen, who
had the scribe's inkhorn by his side.
9:4 耶和华对他说，你去走遍耶路撒冷全城，那些因城中所行一切可憎之事叹息唉哼的人，你要在他们额上画记号。
And Jehovah said to him, Pass through the midst of the city, through the midst of Jerusalem, and put a mark on the foreheads of the men who sigh and groan
because of all the abominations that are committed in its midst.
9:5 我听见祂对其余的人说，要跟随他走遍全城，以行击杀；你们的眼不要顾惜，你们也不要可怜他们。
And to the others He said in my hearing, Pass through the city behind him and strike; do not let your eye pity, and do not spare.
9:6 要将年老的、年少的，并处女、婴孩和妇女，全都杀尽；只是凡有记号的人，不要挨近他。要从我的圣所杀起。于是他们从殿前的长老杀起。
Utterly slay the old man and the young man, and the maiden, the little child, and the women; but do not come near anyone on whom is the mark. And you shall
begin at My sanctuary. Thus they began with the elders who were before the house.
9:7 祂对他们说，要污秽这殿，使院中充满被杀的人；你们出去罢。他们就出去，在城中击杀。
And He said to them, Defile the house and fill the courts with the slain; go forth. And they went forth and struck the people in the city.
9:8 他们击杀的时候，只有我一人被留下，我就面伏于地，呼叫说，哎，主耶和华阿！你将忿怒倾倒在耶路撒冷，岂要将以色列余剩的人都毁灭么？
And as they were striking them and I was left alone, I fell on my face, and I cried out and said, Ah, Lord Jehovah! Are You destroying the whole remnant of Israel
in Your pouring out of Your wrath upon Jerusalem?
9:9 祂对我说，以色列家和犹大家的罪孽极其重大；这地满了流血的事，城里满了冤屈；因为他们说，耶和华已经离弃这地，祂看不见我们。
And He said to me, The iniquity of the house of Israel and Judah is very, very great; and the land is full of blood, and the city, full of perverted justice; for they say,
Jehovah has forsaken the land, and Jehovah does not see.
9:10 故此，我眼必不顾惜，我也不可怜他们；我要照他们的行径报应在他们头上。
But as for Me, My eye will not pity, nor will I spare; I will bring their ways upon their head.
9:11 那穿细麻衣、腰间带着墨盒子的人回报说，我已经照你所吩咐我的行了。
And the man clothed in linen, who had the inkhorn by his side, brought back a report, saying, I have done as You have commanded me.
791
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 10 章
10:1 我观看，见基路伯头上的穹苍之中，有宝座的样式显在他们以上，显出来的样子像蓝宝石。
Then I looked, and there, in the expanse that was over the heads of the cherubim, appeared the likeness of a throne over them, like the appearance of a
sapphire stone.
10:2 主对那穿细麻衣的人说，你进去，在旋转的轮之间，基路伯以下，从基路伯中间将火炭取满两手，撒在城上。他就在我眼前进去。
And He spoke to the man clothed in linen and said, Go in between the whirling wheels, under the cherub, and fill the hollow of your hands with coals of fire from
between the cherubim, and scatter them over the city. And he went in, in my sight.
10:3 那人进去的时候，基路伯站在殿的右边，云彩充满了内院。
And the cherubim were standing on the right side of the house when the man went in, and the cloud filled the inner court.
10:4 耶和华的荣耀从基路伯那里，升到殿的门槛以上；殿里充满了云彩，院子也被耶和华荣耀的光辉充满。
And the glory of Jehovah rose up from the cherub to a place above the threshold of the house; and the house was filled with the cloud, and the court was filled
with the brightness of the glory of Jehovah.
10:5 基路伯翅膀的响声在外院也可听到，好像全能神说话的声音。
And the sound of the wings of the cherubim was heard as far as the outer court, like the voice of the Almighty God when He speaks.
10:6 祂吩咐那穿细麻衣的人说，要从旋转的轮之间，从基路伯中间取火，那人就去站在轮子旁边。
And when He had commanded the man clothed in linen, saying, Take fire from between the whirling wheels, from between the cherubim, the man went and
stood beside the wheel.
10:7 有一个基路伯，从基路伯之间伸手到基路伯中间的火那里，取些放在那穿细麻衣的人两手中；那人拿了，就出去了。
And the cherub stretched out his hand from between the cherubim toward the fire that was between the cherubim, and he took some up and put it into the
hands of the man clothed in linen; and the man took it and went forth.
10:8 在基路伯翅膀之下，显出有人手的样式。
And with the cherubim appeared the form of a man's hand under their wings.
10:9 我又观看，见基路伯旁边有四个轮子，这基路伯旁边有一个轮子，那基路伯旁边也有一个轮子；轮子的样子，看来像水苍玉。
And I looked, and there were four wheels beside the cherubim, one wheel beside one cherub and another wheel beside another cherub; and the appearance of
the wheels was like the sight of beryl.
10:10 至于四轮的样子，都是一个样式，仿佛轮中套轮。
And as for their appearance, the four of them had one likeness, as it were a wheel within a wheel.
10:11 轮行走的时候，乃是向四方直行，行走并不掉转；头向何方，他们也随着行走，行走的时候并不掉转。
As they went, they went in their four directions; they did not turn as they went, but to the place that the head faced they followed; they did not turn as they went.
10:12 他们全身，连背带手和翅膀，并轮周围都满了眼睛；这四个基路伯都有自己的轮子。
And their whole body, their backs, their hands, and their wings, and the wheels were full of eyes all around, their wheels belonging to the four of them.
10:13 至于这些轮子，我听见叫作旋转的轮子。
The wheels were called in my hearing the whirling wheels.
10:14 基路伯各有四脸，第一是基路伯的脸，第二是人的脸，第三是狮子的脸，第四是鹰的脸。
And every one had four faces. The first face was the face of a cherub; the second face was the face of a man; the third, the face of a lion; and the fourth, the face
of an eagle.
10:15 基路伯升上去了；这是我在迦巴鲁河边所见的活物。
Then the cherubim rose up. This was the living creature that I had seen by the river Chebar.
10:16 基路伯行走的时候，轮也在旁边行走；基路伯举起翅膀，离地上升的时候，轮也不转离他们旁边。
And whenever the cherubim went, the wheels went beside them; and whenever the cherubim lifted their wings to rise up from the earth, the wheels also did not
turn from beside them.
10:17 那些站住，这些也站住；那些上升，这些也一同上升；因为活物的灵在轮中。
When those stood still, these stood still; and when those rose up, these rose up with them; for the spirit of the living creature was in them.
10:18 耶和华的荣耀从殿的门槛那里出去，停在基路伯以上。
And the glory of Jehovah went forth from over the threshold of the house and stood over the cherubim.
10:19 基路伯出去的时候，就举起翅膀，在我眼前离地上升，轮也在他们旁边。他们停在耶和华殿的东门口，在他们以上有以色列神的荣耀。
And the cherubim lifted their wings and rose up from the earth in my sight when they went forth, and the wheels were next to them. And they stood at the
entrance of the east gate of the house of Jehovah, and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above.
10:20 这是我在迦巴鲁河边所见以色列神以下的活物，我就知道他们是基路伯。
This was the living creature that I had seen beneath the God of Israel by the river Chebar, and I knew that they were cherubim.
10:21 各有四个脸面，四个翅膀，翅膀以下有人手的样式。
Each one had four faces, and each one had four wings; and the likeness of a man's hands was under their wings.
10:22 至于他们脸的样式，是我从前在迦巴鲁河边所看见的那些脸；他们的样子和他们本身，都是我从前见过的。他们俱各直往前行。
And as for the likeness of their faces, they were the faces that I had seen by the river Chebar, both their appearance and themselves. Each went straight ahead.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 11 章
11:1 灵将我举起，带到耶和华殿向东的东门；看哪，在门口有二十五个人，我见其中有民间的首领押朔的儿子雅撒尼亚，和比拿雅的儿子毗拉提。
And the Spirit lifted me up and brought me to the east gate of the house of Jehovah that faces east; and there, at the entrance of the gate, were twenty-five men.
And among them I saw Jaazaniah the son of Azzur and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, rulers of the people.
11:2 祂对我说，人子阿，这些就是图谋罪孽，在这城中设恶谋的人；
And He said to me, Son of man, these are the men who devise iniquity and give evil counsel in this city,
11:3 他们说，盖房屋的时候尚未临近；这城是锅，我们是肉。
Who say, It is not the time to build houses; the city is the pot and we are the flesh.
792
11:4 人子阿，因此你当说预言，说预言攻击他们。
Therefore prophesy against them; prophesy, son of man.
11:5 耶和华的灵降在我身上，对我说，你要说，耶和华如此说，以色列家阿，你们这样说，你们灵里所起的意，我都知道。
Then the Spirit of Jehovah fell upon me and said to me, Say, Thus says Jehovah, You speak in this way, O house of Israel, for I know the things that come up in
your spirit.
11:6 你们使这城中被杀的人增多，使被杀的人充满街道。
You have multiplied your slain in this city, and you have filled its streets with the slain.
11:7 所以主耶和华如此说，你们放在城中那些被杀的人就是肉，这城就是锅；我却要从其中将你们带出去。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Your slain whom you have put in the midst of the city, they will be the flesh, and the city, the pot; but you I will bring forth
from the midst of it.
11:8 你们怕刀剑，我必使刀剑临到你们。这是主耶和华说的。
You have feared the sword, so I will bring a sword upon you, declares the Lord Jehovah.
11:9 我必将你们从这城中带出去，交在外人的手中，且要在你们身上施行审判。
I will bring you forth from the midst of it and will give you into the hands of strangers; and I will execute judgments upon you.
11:10 你们必倒在刀下；我必在以色列的境界审判你们，你们就知道我是耶和华。
You will fall by the sword; I will judge you in the borders of Israel, and you will know that I am Jehovah.
11:11 这城必不作你们的锅，你们也不在其中作肉；我必在以色列的境界审判你们，
The city will not be a pot to you so that you will be in its midst as flesh; I will judge you in the borders of Israel.
11:12 你们就知道我是耶和华；因为你们没有遵行我的律例，也没有谨守我的典章，却照 你们四围列国的规例而行。
And you will know that I am Jehovah; for you have not walked in My statutes, nor have you done My ordinances, but you have done according to the ordinances
of the nations that surround you.
11:13 我正说预言的时候，比拿雅的儿子毗拉提死了；于是我面伏于地，大声呼叫说，哎，主耶和华阿！你要将以色列余剩的人灭绝净尽么？
And when I prophesied, Pelatiah the son of Benaiah died; and I fell on my face and cried out with a loud voice, and I said, Ah, Lord Jehovah! Are You making a
full end to the remnant of Israel?
11:14 耶和华的话临到我，说，
Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
11:15 人子阿，耶路撒冷的居民对你的弟兄、你的亲属、以色列全家，对他们众人说，你们远离耶和华罢；这地是赐给我们为业的。
Son of man, your brothers, your brothers, your kinsmen and the whole house of Israel, all of them, are the ones to whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said,
Stay far away from Jehovah; to us was this land given as an inheritance.
11:16 所以你当说，主耶和华如此说，我虽将他们远远迁移到列国中，将他们分散在各地，我还要在他们所到的各地，暂作他们的圣所。
Therefore say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Though I have sent them far away among the nations and though I have scattered them among the countries, I have
been a sanctuary to them for a little while in the countries where they went.
11:17 因此你要说，主耶和华如此说，我必从万民中招聚你们，从你们被分散到的各地聚集你们，又要将以色列地赐给你们。
Therefore say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, I will gather you from the peoples and assemble you from the countries among which you have been scattered, and I
will give you the land of Israel.
11:18 他们必到那里，也必从其中除掉一切可厌可憎的物。
And they will come there and take away all its detestable things and all its abominations from it.
11:19 我要赐给他们一个心，也要将新灵放在他们里面；又从他们肉体中除掉石心，赐给他们肉心，
And I will give them one heart, and a new spirit I will put within them; and I will take the heart of stone out of their flesh and give them a heart of flesh,
11:20 使他们遵行我的律例，谨守遵行我的典章；他们要作我的子民，我要作他们的神。
That they may walk in My statutes and keep My ordinances and do them; and they will be My people, and I will be their God.
11:21 至于那些心中随从可厌可憎之物的，我必照他们的行径报应在他们头上，这是主耶和华说的。
But as for those whose heart goes after their detestable things and their abominations, I will bring their ways upon their heads, declares the Lord Jehovah.
11:22 于是基路伯举起翅膀，轮子都在他们旁边；在他们以上有以色列神的荣耀。
Then the cherubim lifted up their wings, and the wheels were next to them; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above.
11:23 耶和华的荣耀从城中上升，停在城东的那座山上。
And the glory of Jehovah went up from the midst of the city and stood upon the mountain which is east of the city.
11:24 灵将我举起，在异象中借着神的灵将我带进迦勒底，到被掳的人那里。我所见的异象就离我上升去了。
And the Spirit lifted me up and brought me to Chaldea, to the captives, in a vision by the Spirit of God. And the vision that I had seen went up from me.
11:25 我便将耶和华所给我看见的一切事，都说给被掳的人听。
Then I told the captives all the things that Jehovah had shown me.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 12 章
12:1 耶和华的话又临到我，说，
And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
12:2 人子阿，你住在悖逆的家中；他们有眼可看，却看不见，有耳可听，却听不见，因为他们是悖逆之家。
Son of man, you are dwelling in the midst of a rebellious house, who have eyes to see but do not see and have ears to hear but do not hear; for they are a
rebellious house.
12:3 所以人子阿，你要为自己预备掳去时用的物件，在白日当他们眼前迁徙而去；要当着他们眼前，从你所在的地方迁到别处去。或者他们可以看明自己
是悖逆之家。
Therefore you, son of man, prepare for yourself baggage for captivity, and go into captivity by day in their sight; indeed you shall go into captivity from your place
to another place in their sight. Perhaps they will see that they are a rebellious house.
12:4 你要在白日当他们眼前，把你的物件带出去，好像带着掳去时所用的物件；到了晚上，你要在他们眼前出去，像被掳的人出去一样。
793
And you shall bring your baggage forth by day in their sight like baggage for captivity, and you shall go forth in the evening in their sight as captives go forth.
12:5 你要在他们眼前挖通了墙，从其中将物件带出去。
In their sight you shall dig through the wall and bring your baggage through it.
12:6 到天黑时，你要当他们眼前搭在肩头上带出去。你要蒙住脸看不见地，因为我已经立你作以色列家的豫兆。
In their sight you shall take it up on your shoulder; in the dark you shall bring it forth. You shall cover your face so that you cannot see the ground, for I have given
you as a sign to the house of Israel.
12:7 我就照着所受的吩咐去行：白日将我的物件带出去，好像带着掳去时所用的物件；到了晚上，我用手挖通了墙；天黑的时候，就当他们眼前搭在肩头
上带出去。
And I did as I was commanded: I brought forth my baggage by day like baggage for captivity, and in the evening I dug through the wall with my hand; in the dark
I brought forth the baggage; on my shoulder I took it up in their sight.
12:8 次日早晨，耶和华的话临到我，说，
Then the word of Jehovah came to me in the morning, saying,
12:9 人子阿，以色列家，就是那悖逆之家，岂不是问你说，你作什么呢？
Son of man, has not the house of Israel, the rebellious house, said to you, What are you doing?
12:10 你要对他们说，主耶和华如此说，这默示是关于耶路撒冷的首领，和在耶路撒冷的以色列全家。
Say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, This burden pertains to the prince in Jerusalem and to all the house of Israel, which is in it.
12:11 你要说，我是你们的豫兆：我怎样行，他们所遭遇的也必怎样。他们必被迁徙，被掳去；
Say, I am a sign of you. As I have done, so will it be done to them. They will go into exile, into captivity;
12:12 他们中间的首领也必在天黑的时候，将物件搭在肩头上带出去；他们要挖通了墙，从其中带出去；他必蒙住脸，眼看不见地。
And the prince who is in their midst will take up his baggage on his shoulder in the dark and will go forth; they will dig through the wall in order to bring his
baggage forth through it; he will hide his face so that he does not see the land with his eyes.
12:13 我必将我的网撒在他身上，他必在我的网罗中缠住；我必带他到迦勒底人之地的巴比伦，但他必看不见那地，且要死在那里。
I will also spread My net over him, and he will be caught in My snare; and I will bring him to Babylon, the land of the Chaldeans, yet he will not see it and will die
there.
12:14 我必把他周围一切帮助他的，和他所有的军队，分散到四方，也要拔刀追赶他们。
And all who surround him to help him and all his armies, I will scatter into every wind, and I will draw out a sword after them.
12:15 我将他们四散在列国，分散在列邦的时候，他们就知道我是耶和华。
And they will know that I am Jehovah, when I scatter them among the nations and disperse them among the countries.
12:16 我却要留下他们少数人得免刀剑、饥荒、瘟疫，使他们在所到的各国中述说他们一切可憎的事；人就知道我是耶和华。
But I will keep a small number of men from among them from sword, from famine, and from pestilence that they may recount all their abominations among the
nations to which they go; and they will know that I am Jehovah.
12:17 耶和华的话又临到我，说，
Moreover the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
12:18 人子阿，你吃饭必战兢，喝水必惶惶忧虑；
Son of man, eat your bread with trembling, and drink your water with quivering and anxious carefulness;
12:19 你要对这地的百姓说，主耶和华向以色列地耶路撒冷的居民如此说，他们吃饭必忧虑，喝水必惊惶；因其中居住的众人所行强暴的事，他们的地必
然荒废，其中所充满的必一无所存。
And say to the people of the land, Thus says the Lord Jehovah to the inhabitants of Jerusalem in the land of Israel, They will eat their bread with anxious
carefulness and drink their water with horror so that their land may be emptied of its fullness because of the violence of all who dwell in it.
12:20 有居民的城邑必变为荒场，地也必变为荒废；你们就知道我是耶和华。
And the inhabited cities will be laid waste, and the land will be a desolation; and you will know that I am Jehovah.
12:21 耶和华的话临到我，说，
And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
12:22 人子阿，关于以色列地，你们怎么有这俗语，说，日子迟延，一切异象都落空呢？
Son of man, what is this proverb that you all have concerning the land of Israel, saying, The days are prolonged and every vision fails?
12:23 因此，你要对他们说，主耶和华如此说，我必使这俗语止息，以色列中不再用这俗语。你却要对他们说，日子临近，一切异象的应验也临近了。
Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, I will bring this proverb to an end, so that they will no longer have the proverb in Israel. But say to them, The
days have drawn near as well as the fulfillment of every vision.
12:24 从此，在以色列家中必不再有任何虚假的异象和奉承的占卜。
For there will no longer be vain vision or flattering divination within the house of Israel.
12:25 我耶和华说话，所说的话必定成就，不再耽延；你们这悖逆之家，趁你们在世的日子，我必说话，并成就这话，这是主耶和华说的。
For it is I, Jehovah, who speaks; whatever word I speak will be performed; it will no longer be delayed; for in your days, O rebellious house, I will speak a word
and I will perform it, declares the Lord Jehovah.
12:26 耶和华的话又临到我，说，
And again the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
12:27 人子阿，以色列家说，他所见的异象是关于多日以后的事，所说的预言是指着遥远的时候。
Son of man, the house of Israel now says, The vision that he sees pertains to things many days from now, and he prophesies concerning distant times.
12:28 所以你要对他们说，主耶和华如此说，我的话没有一句再耽延的，我所说的话必定成就，这是主耶和华说的。
Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, No words of Mine will be delayed any longer, but the word that I have spoken will be performed, declares the
Lord Jehovah.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 13 章
13:1 耶和华的话临到我，说，
Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
794
13:2 人子阿，你要说预言攻击以色列中说预言的申言者，对那些从己心发预言的说，你们当听耶和华的话：
Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel who prophesy, and say to those who prophesy out of their heart, Hear the word of Jehovah:
13:3 主耶和华如此说，愚顽的申言者有祸了，他们随从自己的灵，却一无所见！
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Woe to the foolish prophets, who follow their own spirit and have seen nothing!
13:4 以色列阿，你的申言者好像荒场中的狐狸，
Your prophets, O Israel, have become like foxes among ruins.
13:5 没有上去堵挡破口，也没有为以色列家修造墙垣，使其当耶和华的日子，在争战中站立得住。
You have not gone up to the breaches nor built up the wall for the house of Israel that it might stand in the battle in the day of Jehovah.
13:6 他们所见的是虚假，是谎诈的占卜；他们说是耶和华说的，其实耶和华并没有差遣他们，他们却指望自己的话必要成就。
They have seen vanity and deceptive divination, they who say, Jehovah declares! when Jehovah has not sent them; but they expect that He will fulfill their word.
13:7 你们岂不是见了虚假的异象么？岂不是说了谎诈的占卜么？你们说，这是耶和华说的，其实我没有说。
Have you not seen a vain vision and spoken deceptive divination when you say, Jehovah declares! and I have not spoken?
13:8 所以主耶和华如此说，因你们说的是虚假，见的是谎诈，所以我就与你们反对，这是主耶和华说的。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because you have spoken vanity and have seen deceptive visions, therefore I am now against you, declares the Lord
Jehovah.
13:9 我的手必攻击那见虚假异象、用谎诈占卜的申言者，他们必不得列在我民的会中，不得录在以色列家的册上，也不得进入以色列地；你们就知道我是
主耶和华。
And My hand will be upon the prophets who see vanity and perform deceptive divination; they shall not be in the council of My people, nor shall they be written
down in the register of the house of Israel, nor shall they enter into the land of Israel; and you will know that I am the Lord Jehovah;
13:10 因为他们使我的民走岔了，说，平安，其实没有平安；就像有人立起墙壁，他们倒抹上未泡透的灰。
Because, indeed because, they have led My people astray, saying, Peace, when there is no peace; but it is as if someone builds up a wall, and immediately they
plaster it over with whitewash.
13:11 所以你要对那些抹上未泡透灰的人说，墙要倒塌。必有暴雨漫过；大冰雹阿，你们要降下；暴风也要吹裂这墙。
Tell those who plaster over with whitewash that it will fall. There will be a flooding rain; and you, O hailstones, will fall; and a tempestuous wind will break it down.
13:12 这墙倒塌之后，人岂不问你们说，你们抹上未泡透的灰在那里呢？
Indeed when the wall has fallen, will it not be said to you, Where is the plaster with which you plastered it?
13:13 所以主耶和华如此说，我要在忿怒中使暴风吹裂这墙，在我的怒气中必有暴雨漫过，并有大冰雹在忿怒中毁灭这墙。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, I will cause a tempestuous wind to break forth in My wrath, and there will be a flooding rain in My anger, and hailstones to
consume it in wrath.
13:14 我要拆毁你们用未泡透灰所抹的墙，拆平到地，以致根基露出；墙必倒塌，你们也必在其中灭亡；你们就知道我是耶和华。
And I will tear down the wall that you plastered over with whitewash and will tear it down to the ground, so that its foundation is uncovered; and it will fall, and
you will be consumed in the midst of it; and you will know that I am Jehovah.
13:15 我要向墙和用未泡透灰抹墙的人发尽我的忿怒；我要对你们说，墙没有了，抹墙的人也没有了，
And I will spend My wrath on the wall and on those who have plastered it over with whitewash; and I will say to you, The wall is not there, and those who plaster
it over are not there,
13:16 这抹墙的就是以色列的申言者，他们指 耶路撒冷说预言，为这城见了平安的异象，其实没有平安，这是主耶和华说的。
The prophets of Israel, who prophesy concerning Jerusalem and see visions of peace for her, when there is no peace, declares the Lord Jehovah.
13:17 人子阿，你要面向你那些从己心发预言的民女，说预言攻击她们，
And you, son of man, set your face toward the daughters of your people, who prophesy out of their heart, and prophesy against them
13:18 说，主耶和华如此说，这些女子有祸了！她们为众人的手腕缝制符咒的带子，给各样身材的人作头巾，为要猎取人的性命。难道你们要猎取我民的
性命，为利己将人救活么？
And say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Woe to the women who sew bands on all the wrists and make caps for the heads of persons of every stature, so as to hunt
down souls! Will you hunt down the souls of My people while you preserve alive the souls of others for yourselves?
13:19 你们为几把大麦，为几块饼，在我民面前亵渎我，对我的民，就是肯听你们谎言的人说谎，杀死不该死的人，救活不该活的人。
And you have profaned Me before My people for some handfuls of barley and for some pieces of bread by putting to death some people who should not die and
preserving alive other people who should not live, by your lying to My people who listen to your lies.
13:20 所以主耶和华如此说，我反对你们符咒的带子，就是你们用以猎取性命，如同猎取飞鸟的。我要将那些带子从你们的膀臂上扯去，释放你们如猎取
飞鸟一样所猎取的性命。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, I am now against your bands with which you hunt down souls there as you would birds; and I will tear them off your arms
and will release the souls, which souls you hunt down as you would birds.
13:21 我也必撕掉你们的头巾，救我的民脱离你们的手，他们就不再被猎取，落在你们手中；你们就知道我是耶和华。
I will also tear off your caps and will deliver My people from your hand, and they will no longer be in your hand to be hunted down; and you will know that I am
Jehovah.
13:22 我不使义人伤痛，你们却以谎话使他伤心，又坚固恶人的手，使他不回头离开恶道而将他救活；
Because you discouraged the heart of the righteous man with lies, though I Myself did not pain him, and strengthened the hands of the wicked man so that he
would not turn from his evil way and you would cause him to live,
13:23 因此，你们不得再见虚假的异象，也不得再行占卜的事；我必救我的民脱离你们的手，你们就知道我是耶和华。
Therefore you will no longer see vanity and you will no longer practice divination, but I will deliver My people out of your hand, and you will know that I am
Jehovah.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 14 章
14:1 有几个以色列长老到我这里来，坐在我面前。
Then some of the elders of Israel came to me and sat before me.
14:2 耶和华的话就临到我，说，
795
And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
14:3 人子阿，这些人已将他们的偶像接到心里，把陷他们于罪孽的绊脚石放在自己面前；我岂能丝毫被他们求问么？
Son of man, these men have set their hearts on their idols and have put the stumbling block of their iniquity before their faces. Should I be inquired of at all by
them?
14:4 所以你要告诉他们说，主耶和华如此说，以色列家的人中，凡将他的偶像接到心里，把陷他于罪孽的绊脚石放在自己面前，又去到申言者那里的，我
耶和华要就着这事，按他众多的偶像回答他，
Therefore speak to them and say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Each and every man of the house of Israel who sets his heart on his idols and sets the
stumbling block of his iniquity before his face and goes to the prophet, I, Jehovah, will be found to be answering according to this, according to the multitude of
his idols;
14:5 好在以色列家的心事上捉住他们，他们都因着偶像与我生疏。
That I may lay hold of the house of Israel in their heart, who have become estranged from Me because of all their idols.
14:6 所以你要对以色列家说，主耶和华如此说，回头罢，回转离开你们的偶像，转脸离开你们一切可憎的事；
Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Repent, and turn away from your idols; and turn your faces away from all your abominations;
14:7 因为以色列家的人，或在以色列中寄居的外人，凡与我疏远，将他的偶像接到心里，把陷他于罪孽的绊脚石放在自己面前，又去到申言者那里，要向
他求问我意思的，我耶和华必亲自回答他；
For each and every man of the house of Israel or of the sojourners who sojourn in Israel, who separates himself from Me and sets his heart on his idols and sets
the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face and goes to the prophet to inquire of him concerning Me, I, Jehovah, will be found to be answering him by
Myself;
14:8 我必向那人变脸，使他成为记号和比喻，并且我要将他从我民中剪除；你们就知道我是耶和华。
And I will set My face against that man, and I will make him a sign and a proverb, and I will cut him off from the midst of My people; and you will know that I am
Jehovah.
14:9 申言者若被迷惑说一句话，是我耶和华任那申言者受迷惑，我也必伸手攻击他，将他从我民以色列中除灭。
But if the prophet is enticed to speak a word, I, Jehovah, have enticed that prophet, and I will stretch out My hand against him and will destroy him from the midst
of My people Israel.
14:10 他们必担当自己的罪孽：申言者的罪孽怎样，求问之人的罪孽也必怎样，
And they will bear their iniquity: As the iniquity of the prophet is, so the iniquity of him who inquires of him shall be,
14:11 好使以色列家不再走迷离开我，不再因自己一切的罪过玷污自己，只要作我的子民，我作他们的神，这是主耶和华说的。
That the house of Israel may no longer stray from Me and may no longer defile themselves with all their transgressions, but that they may be My people and I
may be their God, declares the Lord Jehovah.
14:12 耶和华的话临到我，说，
Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
14:13 人子阿，若有一地的人行事不忠实得罪我，我也伸手攻击那地，断绝那里所倚靠的粮食，使饥荒临到那地，将人与牲畜从其中剪除；
Son of man, when a land sins against Me by acting unfaithfully, and I stretch out My hand over it and break its staff of bread and send a famine against it and cut
off man and beast from it;
14:14 其中虽有挪亚、但以理、约伯这三人，他们只能因他们的义救自己的性命，这是主耶和华说的。
Though these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in the midst of it, they would deliver only their own souls by their righteousness, declares the Lord Jehovah.
14:15 我若使恶兽经过那地，毁灭其中的居民，使地荒凉，以致因这些兽，人都不得经过；
If I were to cause wild beasts to pass through the land so that they destroyed its inhabitants and it became so desolate that no one would pass through it
because of the beasts,
14:16 虽有这三人在其中，主耶和华说，我指 我的生存起誓，他们连儿女都不能救，只能自己得救，那地仍要荒凉。
Though these three men were in the midst of it, as I live, declares the Lord Jehovah, they could not deliver even their sons and daughters; they alone would be
delivered, but the land would be desolate.
14:17 或者我使刀剑临到那地，说，刀剑哪，要经过那地，我要将人与牲畜从其中剪除；
Or if I were to bring a sword upon that land and were to say, Let a sword pass through the land, and I were to cut off man and beast from it;
14:18 虽有这三人在其中，主耶和华说，我指着我的生存起誓，他们连儿女都不能救，只能自己得救。
Though these three men were in the midst of it, as I live, declares the Lord Jehovah, they could not deliver even their sons and daughters, but they alone would be
delivered.
14:19 或者我使瘟疫临到那地，藉流血的事把我的忿怒倾倒在其上，好将人与牲畜从其中剪除；
Or if I were to send pestilence into that land and were to pour out My wrath upon it in blood so as to cut off man and beast from it,
14:20 虽有挪亚、但以理、约伯在其中，主耶和华说，我指着我的生存起誓，他们连儿女都不能救，只能因他们的义救自己的性命。
Though Noah, Daniel, and Job were in the midst of it, as I live, declares the Lord Jehovah, they could not deliver even a son or daughter; they would deliver only
their own souls by their righteousness.
14:21 主耶和华如此说，我使这四样严厉的刑罚，就是刀剑、饥荒、恶兽、瘟疫临到耶路撒冷，将人与牲畜从其中剪除，岂不更重么？
For thus says the Lord Jehovah, How much more then when I send My four severe judgments upon Jerusalem, sword and famine and wild beasts and pestilence,
to cut off man and beast from it!
14:22 然而其中必有余剩的人，连儿带女被带出来。他们要出到你们这里来，你们要看见他们的行径和作为；因我降给耶路撒冷的一切灾祸，你们便得了
安慰。
Yet there will be a remnant left in it that will be brought forth, both sons and daughters. They will come forth to you, and you will see their ways and their doings;
and you will be comforted for the ill that I have brought upon Jerusalem, for all that I have brought upon it.
14:23 你们看见他们的行径和作为，就必得安慰；你们必知道我对耶路撒冷所行的一切，并非无故，这是主耶和华说的。
And they will comfort you when you see their ways and their doings; and you will know that it was not without cause that I have done all that I have done to it,
declares the Lord Jehovah.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 15 章
796
15:1 耶和华的话临到我，说，
Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
15:2 人子阿，葡萄树的木料比其余各种木料有什么强处？葡萄枝比林中众树的枝子有什么好处？
Son of man, what becomes of the wood of the vine in comparison to every other kind of wood, of the pruned branch in comparison to that which was on the trees
of the forest?
15:3 可以从其上取木料作成什么呢？可以取来作钉子挂什么器皿么？
Will wood from it be taken to make anything? Or will men take a peg from it to hang any vessel on?
15:4 看哪，已经抛在火中当作柴烧；火既烧了两头，中间也被烧了，还可用来作成什么呢？
Indeed it is put into the fire as fuel; the fire consumes its two ends, and its middle is scorched. Is it good for anything?
15:5 完整的时候尚且没有用来作成什么，何况被火烧坏，还能用来作成什么呢？
Indeed when it was whole, it was not made into anything. How much less, when fire has consumed it and it has been scorched, can it still be made into anything!
15:6 所以，主耶和华如此说，林中众树以内葡萄树的木料，我怎样使它在火中当柴烧，也必照样待耶路撒冷的居民。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Like the wood of the vine among the trees of the forest, which I have given to the fire as fuel, so will I give the inhabitants of
Jerusalem.
15:7 我必向他们变脸：他们虽从火中出来，火却要烧灭他们；我向他们变脸的时候，你们就知道我是耶和华。
And I will set My face against them: They have gone forth from the fire, yet the fire will consume them; and you will know that I am Jehovah when I set My face
against them.
15:8 我必使这地荒凉，因为他们行事不忠实，这是主耶和华说的。
And I will make the land desolate because they have acted unfaithfully, declares the Lord Jehovah.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 16 章
16:1 耶和华的话又临到我，说，
Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
16:2 人子阿，你要使耶路撒冷知道她那些可憎的事，
Son of man, cause Jerusalem to know her abominations,
16:3 说，主耶和华对耶路撒冷如此说，你的根源和出生地，是在迦南地；你父亲是亚摩利人，你母亲是赫人。
And say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah to Jerusalem, Your origin and your birth are from the land of Canaan; your father was an Amorite, and your mother was a
Hittite.
16:4 论到你的出生，在你生下来的日子，没有为你断脐带，也没有用水洗你，使你洁净；丝毫没有撒盐在你身上，也没有用布裹你。
As for your birth, on the day that you were born your cord was not cut, nor were you washed with water for cleansing; you were not rubbed with salt nor
wrapped in swaddling clothes.
16:5 谁的眼也不可怜你，为你作一件这样的事怜恤你；你生下来的日子就被扔在田野，是因你被厌恶。
No eye pitied you enough to do any of these things for you, to have compassion on you; but you were thrown into the open field because you were loathed on
the day that you were born.
16:6 我从你旁边经过，见你在血中挣扎。那时你在血中，我对你说，你要活着。当你在血中，我对你说，你要活着。
And I passed by you and saw you kicking about in your blood, and I said to you while you were in your blood, Live! Yes, I said to you while you were in your blood,
Live!
16:7 我使你增长好像田间所长的，你就渐渐长大，以致极其美丽，两乳成形，头发长成；你却仍然赤身露体。
I caused you to increase like the sprouts of the field; and you increased and grew big, and you came to full beauty; your breasts became firm and your hair grew;
but you were naked and bare.
16:8 我从你旁边经过，看见了你；那正是你动爱情的时候。我便展开衣襟搭在你身上，遮盖你的赤体；又向你起誓，与你结盟，你就归于我；这是主耶和
华说的。
Then I passed by you and saw you; and then was your time a time of love. And I spread My skirt over you and covered your nakedness; indeed I swore unto you
and entered into a covenant with you, declares the Lord Jehovah, and you became Mine.
16:9 那时我用水洗你，洗去你身上的血，又用油抹你。
Then I washed you with water; yes, I washed away your blood from you, and I anointed you with oil.
16:10 我也使你身穿刺绣的衣服，脚穿海狗皮的鞋，并用细麻布给你裹头，用丝绸给你遮身。
I also clothed you with an embroidered garment and put sandals of porpoise skin on you, and I bound your head with fine linen and covered you with silk.
16:11 我用妆饰打扮你，将镯子戴在你手上，将链子戴在你项上；
And I adorned you with ornaments and put bracelets on your wrists and a necklace around your neck;
16:12 又将环子戴在你鼻子上，将耳环戴在你耳朵上，将华冠戴在你头上。
And I put a ring in your nose and earrings on your ears and a beautiful crown on your head.
16:13 这样，你就有金银的妆饰，穿的是细麻衣、丝绸和绣花衣；吃的是细面、蜂蜜和油。你也极其美丽，发达到王后的尊荣。
Thus you were adorned with gold and silver, and your clothing was fine linen and silk and embroidery; you ate fine flour and honey and oil. And you became so
very beautiful, and you prospered so as to become royalty.
16:14 你因美丽，名声传在列国中；你十分美丽，是因我加在你身上的威荣，这是主耶和华说的。
And your renown went forth among the nations because of your beauty, for it was perfect because of My splendor, which I had put upon you, declares the Lord
Jehovah.
16:15 只是你仗 自己的美丽，又因你的名声就行邪淫。你向每个过路的纵情淫乱，你的美丽就归于他。
But you trusted in your beauty and went about as a harlot because of your renown, and you poured out your fornications upon everyone who passed by; your
beauty became his.
16:16 你拿些衣服，为自己造色彩缤纷的邱坛，在其上行邪淫；这样的事从未有过，也不该有。
And you took some of your garments and made high places of varied colors for yourself, and you committed fornication upon them, things that had never
happened before, nor should have been.
797
16:17 你又将我给你的金银所造华美的物件拿来，为自己制造男像，与那些像行邪淫；
And you took your beautiful articles, made of My gold and My silver, which I had given you, and made images of men for yourself and committed fornication with
them.
16:18 又拿你的绣花衣服给它们披上，并将我的油和香摆在它们跟前；
And you took your garments of embroidery and covered them, and you offered My oil and My incense before them.
16:19 又将我赐给你的食物，就是我赐给你吃的细面、油和蜂蜜，都摆在它们面前为怡爽的香气；事情就这样发生了，这是主耶和华说的。
And My bread, which I had given you, the fine flour and oil and honey that I fed you with, you offered before them as a sweet savor; thus it was, declares the Lord
Jehovah.
16:20 你更将你给我所生的儿女献给那些偶像作食物。你行淫乱岂是小事，
Moreover you took your sons and daughters, whom you had borne unto Me, and you sacrificed them to those idols to be devoured. Were your fornications a
small matter,
16:21 竟将我的儿女杀了，使他们经火献给那些偶像么？
That you slaughtered My children and delivered them up to pass through fire unto those idols?
16:22 你行这一切可憎和淫乱的事，并未追念你幼年赤身露体，在血中挣扎的日子。
And in all your abominations and fornications you did not remember the days of your youth, when you were naked and bare and you were kicking about in your
blood.
16:23 你行这一切恶事之后，(主耶和华说，你有祸了，有祸了！)
Then after all your wickedness (Woe, woe to you! declares the Lord Jehovah)
16:24 又为自己建造圆顶花楼，在各街市为自己作了高台。
You built yourself a mound and made yourself an elevation in every open square.
16:25 你在各街头建造高台，使你的美貌变为可憎的，又向一切过路的伸开双腿，多行淫乱。
At the head of every street you built your elevation and caused your beauty to be abhorred; and you spread your legs to everyone who passed by and multiplied
your fornications.
16:26 你也和你邻邦放纵肉体的埃及人行淫，多行淫乱惹我发怒。
You also committed fornication with the sons of Egypt, your neighbors, great of flesh, and multiplied your fornications to provoke Me to anger.
16:27 看哪，我伸手攻击你，减少你应得的粮食，又将你交给恨你的非利士众女子，使她们任意待你；她们对你放荡的行径感到羞耻。
Indeed then I stretched out My hand over you and diminished the food apportioned to you; and I delivered you to the desire of those who hate you, the daughters
of the Philistines, who are ashamed of your lewd way.
16:28 你因还不满足，又与亚述人行淫；与他们行淫之后，仍不满足。
You also committed fornication with the sons of Assyria because you were not satisfied; and you committed fornication with them and were still not satisfied.
16:29 你又多行淫乱，直到那贸易之地，就是迦勒底，你仍不满足。
Furthermore you multiplied your fornications into the land of merchants, Chaldea, yet you were still not satisfied by this.
16:30 主耶和华说，你行这一切事，都是不知收敛之妓女所行的，可见你的心是何等懦弱！
How feeble is your heart, declares the Lord Jehovah, in that you do all these things, the actions of an unrestrained harlot!
16:31 你在各路口建造圆顶花楼，在各街市作了高台，你却轻看酬价，不像妓女。
When you built your mound at the head of every street and you made your elevation in every open square, you were not like a harlot, by disdaining payment.
16:32 你这行淫的妻子，宁肯接外人，不接自己的丈夫。
The adulterous wife takes strangers instead of her husband.
16:33 妓女都是得人赠送，你反倒赠送你所爱的人，贿赂他们从四围来与你行淫。
Men give gifts to all harlots, but you gave your gifts to all your lovers and bribed them to come to you from all around for your fornications.
16:34 你行淫与别的妇女相反，因为不是人追求要与你行淫；你给人酬价，人并不给你酬价；所以你与别的妇女相反。
Thus you are perverse compared to other women in your fornications, in that they do not go after you as a prostitute, but you give payment and no payment is
given to you; therefore you are perverse.
16:35 因此，你这妓女阿，要听耶和华的话：
Therefore, you harlot, hear the word of Jehovah:
16:36 主耶和华如此说，因你的情欲倾泄了，露出下体，与你所爱的人行淫，并与你一切可憎的偶像行淫，又因你把儿女献给偶像，流他们的血，
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because your lust was poured out and your nakedness was uncovered through your fornications with your lovers and with all your
abominable idols and because of the blood of your children, whom you gave to them,
16:37 所以我要将你一切所悦所爱的，连你一切所恨的，都聚集来，从四围攻击你；又将你的下体露出，使他们看尽了。
Therefore I am about to gather all your lovers whom you have pleased, indeed, all those whom you loved, with all those whom you hated; thus I will gather them
against you from all around, and I will uncover your nakedness to them so that they may see all your nakedness.
16:38 我也要审判你，像审判淫妇和流人血的妇女一样；我要因忿怒妒忌，使流血的罪归到你身上。
And I will judge you with the judgment that falls on adulterous women and on women who shed blood, and I will bring upon you the blood of wrath and jealousy.
16:39 我又要将你交在他们手中；他们必拆毁你的圆顶花楼，毁坏你的高台，剥去你的衣服，夺取你的华美物件，留下你赤身露体。
And I will give you into their hand; and they will tear down your mounds and break down your elevations; they will also strip you of your garments and take your
beautiful articles, and they will leave you naked and bare.
16:40 他们也必带多人来攻击你，用石头打死你，用刀将你砍碎。
And they will raise up a crowd against you and will stone you with stones and will cut you to pieces with their swords.
16:41 他们要用火焚烧你的房屋，在许多妇女眼前向你施行审判。我必使你不再行淫，也不再给人酬价。
And they will burn your houses with fire and execute judgments upon you in the sight of many women. And I will stop you from being a harlot, and also you will
no longer give payment.
16:42 这样，我就止息向你发的忿怒，我的妒忌也要离开你，我要安静不再恼怒。
Thus I will cause My wrath against you to rest, and My jealousy will turn from you; and I will be quiet and angry no more.
16:43 因你不追念你幼年的日子，在这一切的事上向我发烈怒，所以在我这一面，我必照你所行的报应在你头上，你就不再在你一切可憎的事以外，又犯
这淫行；这是主耶和华说的。
798
Because you have not remembered the days of your youth but have raged against Me in all these things, therefore, I, for My part, will bring your ways upon your
head, declares the Lord Jehovah; and you will not commit this lewdness in addition to all your abominations.
16:44 凡说俗语的，必用俗语攻击你，说，有其母，必有其女。
Indeed everyone who uses proverbs will use this proverb concerning you, saying, As the mother is, so is her daughter.
16:45 你正是你母亲的女儿，她厌弃自己的丈夫和儿女；你正是你姊妹的姊妹，她们厌弃自己的丈夫和儿女。你们的母亲是赫人，你们的父亲是亚摩利人。
You are the daughter of your mother, she who loathed her husband and her children; and you are the sister of your sisters, they who loathed their husbands and
their children. Your mother was a Hittite and your father was an Amorite.
16:46 你的姐姐是撒玛利亚，她和她的众女儿住在你左边；你的妹妹是所多玛，她和她的众女儿住在你右边。
And your older sister is Samaria with her daughters, who lives to your left; and your sister who is younger than you, who lives to your right, is Sodom with her
daughters.
16:47 你不是只按她们所行的去行，也不是只照她们可憎的事去作，你倒以那为小事，你一切所行的比她们更坏。
But you have not walked merely according to their ways and have not acted merely according to their abominations; but, as if such were too small a thing, you
acted more corruptly in all your ways than they did.
16:48 主耶和华说，我指着我的生存起誓，你妹妹所多玛与她的众女儿，尚未行过你和你众女儿所行的事。
As I live, declares the Lord Jehovah, Sodom your sister, she with her daughters, has not done as you have done, you with your daughters.
16:49 你妹妹所多玛的罪孽是这样：她和她的众女儿都心骄气傲，粮食丰足，大享安逸，并没有扶助困苦和穷乏人的手。
Indeed this was the iniquity of your sister Sodom: pride, abundance of bread, and careless ease were with her and her daughters, but she did not strengthen the
hand of the poor and needy;
16:50 她们狂傲，在我面前行可憎的事；因此，我一看见便将她们除掉。
And they were haughty and committed abomination before Me. Therefore I took them away when I saw it.
16:51 撒玛利亚没有犯你一半的罪，你行可憎的事比她们更多，使你的姊妹因你所行一切可憎的事，倒显为义。
And Samaria has not committed the half of your sins, but you have multiplied your abominations more than they and have justified your sisters in all your
abominations which you have committed.
16:52 你既断定你姊妹当受羞辱，就也要担当自己的羞辱；因你所犯的罪比她们更为可憎，她们就比你更显为义；你 使你的姊妹更显为义，你就要抱愧
担当自己的羞辱。
Bear then also your disgrace, which you have adjudged to your sisters; through your sins which you have committed more abominably than they, they are more
righteous than you; indeed then be also put to shame and bear your disgrace, in that you have made your sisters appear to be more righteous.
16:53 我必叫她们被掳的归回，就是叫所多玛和她众女儿被掳的，撒玛利亚和她众女儿被掳的，并你们在他们中间一同被掳的，都要归回；
But I will turn their captivity, the captivity of Sodom with her daughters and the captivity of Samaria with her daughters, as well as the captivity of your captives with
them;
16:54 好使你担当自己的羞辱，并因你一切所行的受羞辱，而使她们得安慰。
That you may bear your disgrace and be disgraced for all that you have done, in that you were a comfort to them.
16:55 你的妹妹所多玛和她的众女儿必回复先前的景况，撒玛利亚和她的众女儿，你和你的众女儿，也都必回复先前的景况。
And your sisters, Sodom with her daughters, will return to their former state, and Samaria with her daughters will return to their former state; and you with your
daughters will return to your former state.
16:56 在你骄傲的日子，你的妹妹所多玛岂不是你口中的笑柄么？
Indeed, was not Sodom your sister a byword in your mouth on the day of your pride,
16:57 那时你的恶行还未显露出来；现在你成了亚兰众女儿和亚兰四围的众人所羞辱的，以及非利士众女儿，就是你四围一切轻侮你之人所羞辱的。
Before your wickedness was uncovered? So now you are the reproach of the daughters of Aram and all who are around her and of the daughters of the
Philistines, those all around who despise you.
16:58 耶和华说，你自己的放荡和可憎的事，你已经担当了。
You have borne your own lewdness and abominations, declares Jehovah.
16:59 因为主耶和华如此说，你这轻看誓言、背弃盟约的，我必照你所行的待你。
For thus says the Lord Jehovah, I will also do with you as you have done, you who have despised the oath by breaking the covenant.
16:60 然而我要追念在你幼年时与你所立的约，也要与你立定永约。
Nevertheless I will remember My covenant with you in the days of your youth, and I will establish an eternal covenant for you.
16:61 这样，在你接待你姐姐和你妹妹的时候，你要追念你的行径，自觉羞愧；并且我要将她们赐你为女儿，却不是按着你的约。
Then you will remember your ways and you will be disgraced when you receive your sisters, the one older than you and the one younger than you; and I will give
them to you as daughters, but not because of your covenant.
16:62 我必坚定我与你所立的约，你就知道我是耶和华，
And I will establish My covenant with you, and you will know that I am Jehovah,
16:63 好使你在我遮盖你一切所行的时候，心里追念，自觉抱愧，又因你的羞辱就不再开口；这是主耶和华说的。
That you may remember and be ashamed and never open your mouth because of your disgrace, when I make propitiation for you for all that you have done,
declares the Lord Jehovah.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 17 章
17:1 耶和华的话临到我，说，
And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
17:2 人子阿，你要向以色列家出谜语，设比喻，
Son of man, put forth a riddle, and utter a parable to the house of Israel;
17:3 说，主耶和华如此说，有一大鹰，翅膀大，翎毛长，羽毛丰满，彩色俱备，来到利巴嫩，将香柏树梢拧去，
And say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, A great eagle with great wings, long pinions, and full plumage of many colors came to Lebanon and took away the top of
the cedar.
17:4 就是折去香柏树尽尖的嫩枝，叼到贸易之地，放在商人的城中；
799
He cropped off its topmost young twig and brought it to a land of merchants; he set it in a city of traders.
17:5 又将这地的一些种子取去，种在肥田里，栽于多水旁，如栽柳树，
He also took some of the seed of the land and put it in a fertile field; he took it and set it by abundant waters like a willow,
17:6 使其渐渐生长，成为蔓延矮小的葡萄树；其枝转向那鹰，其根在鹰以下，于是成了葡萄树，生出枝条，发出小枝。
That it might sprout and become a low, running vine with its branches turned toward him and its roots under him. And it became a vine and produced offshoots
and sent forth boughs.
17:7 又有一大鹰，翅膀大，羽毛多；这葡萄树从栽种的畦中向这鹰弯过根来，发出枝子，好得这鹰的浇灌。
And there was another great eagle with great wings and much plumage; and then this vine bent its roots toward him, and from the beds where it was planted it
sent out its branches toward him that he might water it.
17:8 这树栽于良田多水的旁边，好生枝子，结果子，成为壮大的葡萄树。
In a good field by abundant waters it had been transplanted so that it would produce branches and bear fruit, that it might be a magnificent vine.
17:9 你要说，主耶和华如此说，这葡萄树能发旺么？鹰岂不拔出它的根来，芟除它的果子，使它枯干，使它发的嫩叶都枯干了么？不必用大力或多民，就
将它连根拔出来。
Say then, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Will it thrive? Will he not pull up its roots and cut off its fruit so that it withers? All its fresh sprouting leaves will wither, even
without great strength or a mighty people pulling it up from its roots.
17:10 葡萄树虽然栽种了，岂能发旺呢？一经东风吹袭，岂不全然枯干么？它必在栽植的畦中枯干。
And indeed, though it has been transplanted, will it thrive? Will it not wither completely once the east wind touches it? In the beds where it was planted it will
wither.
17:11 耶和华的话临到我，说，
Moreover the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
17:12 你对那悖逆之家说，你们不知道这些事是什么意思么？你要告诉他们说，巴比伦王曾来耶路撒冷，将其中的君王和首领带到巴比伦自己那里去。
Say now to the rebellious house, Do you not know what these things mean? Say, Indeed the king of Babylon came to Jerusalem, and he took its king and its
rulers and brought them to him at Babylon.
17:13 他从王室的后裔中取一人与他立约，使他发誓，并将这地有势力的人取去，
And he took someone of the royal seed and made a covenant with him and put him under an oath. He also took the mighty men of the land,
17:14 使国低微不能再兴起，惟因守盟约才得存立。
That the kingdom might be humble, that it might not lift itself up, but by keeping his covenant, it might stand.
17:15 他却背叛巴比伦王，打发使者往埃及去，要他们给他马匹和多民。他能亨通么？行这样事的人能逃脱么？他能背约逃脱么？
But he rebelled against him by sending his messengers to Egypt that they might give him horses and many people. Will he prosper? Will he who does these
things escape? Can he break the covenant and slip away?
17:16 主耶和华说，我指着我的生存起誓，他既轻看向王所起的誓，背弃王与他所立的约，就必要死在巴比伦，就是在那立他作王之巴比伦王的地方。
As I live, declares the Lord Jehovah, surely in the land of the king who made him king, whose oath he despised and whose covenant he broke, with him in the
midst of Babylon he will die.
17:17 敌人筑围城土垒，造攻城土墙，为要剪除多人的时候，法老虽领大军队和大群众，还是不会在阵上帮助他。
And Pharaoh with his mighty army and great company will not aid him in battle, when they cast up mounds and build siegeworks to cut off many lives.
17:18 他轻看誓言，背弃盟约；他已经投降，却又作这一切的事；他必不能逃脱。
Indeed, he despised the oath by breaking the covenant; yes, he even gave his hand and yet did all these things; he will not slip away.
17:19 所以主耶和华如此说，我指着我的生存起誓，他既轻看指着我所起的誓，背弃指着我所立的约，我必要使背弃这誓和这约的罪归在他头上。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, As I live, surely My oath, which he despised, and My covenant, which he broke, I will bring upon his head.
17:20 我必将我的网撒在他身上，他必在我的网罗中被捉住；我必带他到巴比伦，并要在那里因他对我的不忠信审判他。
And I will spread My net over him, and he will be caught in My snare; and I will bring him to Babylon and will enter into judgment with him there concerning his
unfaithfulness by which he has been unfaithful to Me.
17:21 在他一切军队中，所有的精兵都必倒在刀下，所余剩的也必分散四方；你们就知道我耶和华说话了。
And all his choice men with all his armies will fall by the sword, and those who are left will be scattered into every wind; and you will know that I, Jehovah, have
spoken.
17:22 主耶和华如此说，我也要将高大香柏树的树梢拧去栽上；我要从尽尖的嫩枝中折一嫩枝，栽于高耸的山上。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, I will also take a twig from the lofty top of the cedar and will set it out; from the topmost of its young twigs I will crop off a tender one,
and I will transplant it upon a high and prominent mountain.
17:23 我要将这嫩枝栽于以色列的高山上；它就生枝子，结果子，成为壮大的香柏树，各类飞鸟都必宿在其下，就是宿在枝子的荫下。
On the high mountain of Israel I will transplant it; and it will bear branches and produce fruit and will become a magnificent cedar; and under it all birds of every
kind will nest; in the shade of its branches they will nest.
17:24 田野的树木都必知道，我耶和华使高树矮小，矮树高大，使青树枯干，枯树发芽。我耶和华说过，也必成就。
And all the trees of the field will know that I, Jehovah, have brought down the exalted tree and have exalted the lowly tree, that I have dried up the green tree and
have made the dry tree bud. I, Jehovah, have spoken, and I will do it.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 18 章
18:1 耶和华的话又临到我，说，
Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
18:2 论到以色列地，你们用这俗语说，父亲吃了酸葡萄，儿子的牙酸倒了，是什么意思呢？
What do you mean by using this proverb concerning the land of Israel, saying, The fathers eat sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge?
18:3 主耶和华说，我指着我的生存起誓，你们在以色列中，必不再有这俗语。
As I live, declares the Lord Jehovah, the use of this parable will no longer be with you in Israel.
18:4 看哪，所有的人都是属我的；为父的人怎样属我，为子的人也照样属我；犯罪的人，他必死亡。
Indeed all souls are Mine; indeed as is the soul of the father, so also the soul of the son is Mine. The soul who sins, he shall die.
800
18:5 人若是公义的，且行公正与公义的事，
But if a man is righteous and practices justice and righteousness,
18:6 未曾在山上吃祭偶像之物，未曾仰望以色列家的偶像，未曾玷污邻舍的妻子，未曾亲近在月经污秽中的妇人；
And does not eat upon the mountains or lift up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, and does not defile his neighbor's wife or come near a menstruous
woman;
18:7 未曾欺压人，乃将欠债之人的抵押还给他；未曾抢夺人，却将自己的食物给饥饿的人吃，用衣服遮盖赤身的人；
And if a man does not oppress anyone but restores to the debtor his pledge, does not plunder but gives his bread to the hungry and covers the naked with a
garment;
18:8 未曾放债取利，也未曾向借贷的人多要；缩手不作罪孽，在人与人之间，按公理判断；
If he does not lend with interest or collect with an increase; if he withdraws his hand from iniquity and exercises true justice between man and man;
18:9 遵行我的律例，谨守我的典章，按公理行事；这人就是公义的，必定存活；这是主耶和华说的。
If he walks in My statutes and keeps My judgments to do truth-he is righteous; he shall surely live, declares the Lord Jehovah.
18:10 他若生一个凶暴的儿子，是流人血的，行了以上任何一件恶事，
But if he begets a violent son, one who sheds blood or does only one of these things
18:11 (虽然父亲未曾行过以上任何一件恶事，)儿子若在山上吃祭偶像之物，或玷污邻舍的妻子，
(Though he has done none of these things himself); if he even eats upon the mountains or defiles his neighbor's wife,
18:12 亏负困苦和穷乏的人，抢夺人，不将抵押还给人，仰望偶像，行可憎的事，
Oppresses the poor and needy, commits plunder, does not restore the pledge, or lifts his eyes to the idols and commits abomination,
18:13 放债取利，或向借贷的人多要；他能存活么？他必不能存活。他行了这一切可憎的事，必要死亡；他的罪必归到他身上。
Lends with interest or collects with an increase; then will he live? He shall not live. He has committed all these abominations; he shall surely die. His blood shall be
upon him.
18:14 他若生一个儿子，这儿子看见父亲所犯的一切罪，看见了并不照样去作；
But if he begets a son, and the son sees all the sins of his father that he has done, and he sees and does not do the like;
18:15 他未曾在山上吃祭偶像之物，未曾仰望以色列家的偶像，未曾玷污邻舍的妻子，
He does not eat upon the mountains and does not lift up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, does not defile his neighbor's wife,
18:16 未曾欺压人，未曾取人的抵押，未曾抢夺人的物件，却将自己的食物给饥饿的人吃，用衣服遮盖赤身的人，
Does not oppress anyone, does not keep the pledge and does not plunder, but gives his bread to the hungry and covers the naked with a garment,
18:17 缩手不害贫穷人，未曾放债取利，也未曾向借贷的人多要；他谨守我的典章，遵行我的律例，就不因父亲的罪孽死亡；他必要存活。
Takes his hand off the poor and does not collect with interest or increase, does My judgments and walks in My statutes; he shall not die for his father's iniquity; he
shall surely live.
18:18 至于他父亲，因为欺压人太甚，抢夺弟兄，在本国的民中行不善，他必因自己的罪孽死亡。
As for his father, because he practiced extortion, plundered his brother, and did that which was not good in the midst of his people, indeed he shall die for his
iniquity.
18:19 你们还说，儿子为何不担当父亲的罪孽呢？儿子行公正与公义的事，谨守遵行我的一切律例，他必定存活。
Yet you say, Why? Does not the son share the punishment for the father's iniquity? When the son has practiced justice and righteousness and has kept all My
statutes and done them, he shall surely live.
18:20 惟有犯罪的人，他必死亡；儿子必不担当父亲的罪孽，父亲也不担当儿子的罪孽。义人的义必归自己，恶人的恶也必归自己。
The soul who sins, he shall die; the son shall not share the punishment for the father's iniquity, nor shall the father share the punishment for the son's iniquity. The
righteousness of the righteous man shall be upon him, and the wickedness of the wicked man shall be upon him.
18:21 恶人若回头离开所犯的一切罪，谨守我一切的律例，行公正与公义的事，他必定存活，不至死亡。
But if the wicked man turns from all his sins that he has committed and keeps all My statutes and practices justice and righteousness, he shall surely live; he shall
not die.
18:22 他所犯的一切罪过都不被记念；因所行的义，他必存活。
None of his transgressions that he has committed shall be remembered against him; because of his righteousness that he has practiced he shall live.
18:23 主耶和华说，我岂是喜悦恶人死亡么？不是喜悦他回头离开他的行径，而得存活么？
Do I take pleasure in the death of the wicked, declares the Lord Jehovah, and not in his turning away from his ways that he may live?
18:24 义人若转离他的义作了罪孽，照着恶人所行一切可憎的事而行，他岂能存活么？他所行一切的义都不被记念；他必因所行不忠的事，并因所犯的罪
死亡。
But when a righteous man turns from his righteousness and practices iniquity and commits all the abominations that the wicked man commits, will he live? None
of his righteousness that he has practiced shall be remembered. Because of his unfaithfulness in which he has acted unfaithfully and because of his sin which he
has sinned, because of them, he shall die.
18:25 你们还说，主的道路不公平。以色列家阿，你们当听！我的道路岂不公平么？岂不是你们的道路不公平么？
Yet you say, The way of the Lord is not fair. Hear now, O house of Israel! Is My way not fair? Is it not your ways that are not fair?
18:26 义人若转离他的义作了罪孽，以致死亡，他是因所作的罪孽死亡。
When a righteous man turns from his righteousness and practices iniquity and dies as a consequence, because of his iniquity that he has practiced he shall die.
18:27 再者，恶人若回头离开所行的恶，行公正与公义的事，他必将自己的性命救活。
Again, when a wicked man turns from his wickedness that he has practiced and practices justice and righteousness, he shall save his life.
18:28 因为他察看，就回头离开所行的一切过犯，他必定存活，不至死亡。
Because he sees and turns from all his transgressions that he has committed, he shall surely live; he shall not die.
18:29 以色列家还说，主的道路不公平。以色列家阿，我的道路岂不公平么？岂不是你们的道路不公平么？
Yet the house of Israel says, The way of the Lord is not fair. Are My ways not fair, O house of Israel? Is it not your ways that are not fair?
18:30 主耶和华说，所以以色列家阿，我必按你们各人的行径审判你们。你们当回头转离所行的一切过犯，免得罪孽成为你们的绊脚石。
Therefore I will judge you, O house of Israel, each according to his ways, declares the Lord Jehovah. Repent, and turn away from all your transgressions so that
iniquity will not become a stumbling block to you.
18:31 你们要将所行的一切过犯从你们身上尽行抛弃，使自己得一个新心和新灵；以色列家阿，你们何必死亡呢？
801
Cast away from you all your transgressions by which you have transgressed, and get yourselves a new heart and a new spirit; for why will you die, O house of
Israel?
18:32 主耶和华说，我不喜悦那死人之死，所以你们当回头而存活。
For I take no pleasure in the death of him who dies, declares the Lord Jehovah; therefore repent and live.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 19 章
19:1 你当为以色列的首领举哀，
But you, take up a lamentation for the princes of Israel,
19:2 说，你的母亲是什么呢？是狮子中间的母狮，蹲伏在少壮狮子中，养育小狮子。
And say, What was your mother? A lioness among lions. She lay in the midst of young lions; She brought up her whelps.
19:3 在它小狮子中养大一只，成了少壮狮子，学会抓食而吃人。
When she raised up one of her whelps, He became a young lion; And he learned to take prey; He devoured men.
19:4 列国听见了，就把它捉在他们的坑中，用钩子拉到埃及地去。
Then the nations heard of him; He was captured in their pit, And they brought him with hooks To the land of Egypt.
19:5 母狮见自己等候失了指望，就从它小狮子中又将一只养为少壮狮子。
When she saw that she had waited, That her hope was lost, She took another one of her whelps; She made him a young lion.
19:6 它在众狮子中走来走去，成了少壮狮子，学会抓食而吃人。
And he went about among the lions; He became a young lion. And he learned to take prey; He devoured men.
19:7 它毁坏列国的宫堡，又使他们的城邑变为荒场；因它咆哮的声音，地和其中所充满的就都惊骇。
And he destroyed their citadels And laid waste their cities; And the land and its fullness were horrified At the sound of his roaring.
19:8 于是四围列国各省的人来攻击它，将网撒在它身上，把它捉在他们的坑中。
Then the nations set against him All around from the provinces And spread their net over him; He was captured in their pit.
19:9 他们用钩子将它钩进笼中，带到巴比伦王那里，将它放入坚固之所，使它的声音在以色列山上不再听见。
And they put him in a cage with hooks And brought him to the king of Babylon-They brought him into strongholds-That his voice would no longer be heard Upon
the mountains of Israel.
19:10 你的母亲先前如你葡萄园中的葡萄树，栽于水旁；因为水多，就多结果子，满生枝子；
Your mother was like a vine in your vineyard, Transplanted beside the waters; It was fruitful and full of branches Because of abundant waters.
19:11 有坚固的枝干，可作掌权者的杖；其树身高举在茂密的枝中，因树高大，枝子繁多，远远可见。
And it had strong branches For scepters of those who rule; And its height was exalted among the leafy boughs, And it was visible in its height because of the
multitude of its branches.
19:12 但这葡萄树因神的忿怒被拔出摔在地上；东风吹干其上的果子，坚固的枝干折断枯干，被火烧毁；
But it was plucked up in wrath; It was cast down to the ground; And the east wind dried up its fruit; Its strong branch was broken off and it withered; The fire
consumed it.
19:13 如今栽于旷野，在干旱无水之地。
And now it is transplanted in the wilderness, In a dry and thirsty land.
19:14 火也从它枝干中发出，烧灭枝条和果子，以致其上没有坚固的枝干可作掌权者的杖。这是哀歌，也已用作哀歌。
And fire has gone forth from its branch; It has consumed its offshoots and its fruit, So that there is no strong branch in it, A scepter to rule. This is a lamentation
and it has become a lamentation.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 20 章
20:1 第七年五月初十日，有以色列的几个长老来求问耶和华，坐在我面前。
Now in the seventh year, in the fifth month, on the tenth of the month, some of the elders of Israel came to inquire of Jehovah, and they sat before me.
20:2 耶和华的话临到我，说，
Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
20:3 人子阿，你要告诉以色列的长老说，主耶和华如此说，你们来是求问我么？主耶和华说，我指着我的生存起誓，我必不被你们求问。
Son of man, speak to the elders of Israel and say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Have you come to inquire of Me? As I live, I will not be inquired of by you,
declares the Lord Jehovah.
20:4 人子阿，你要审问审问他们么？你当使他们知道他们列祖那些可憎的事，
Will you judge them, will you judge, son of man? Make them know the abominations of their fathers,
20:5 对他们说，主耶和华如此说，当日我拣选以色列，向雅各家的后裔举手起誓，在埃及地使他们认识我，说，我是耶和华你们的神；
And say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, On the day when I chose Israel and lifted up My hand to the seed of the house of Jacob and made Myself known to
them in the land of Egypt; when I lifted up My hand to them, saying, I am Jehovah your God;
20:6 那日我向他们举手起誓，要领他们出埃及地，到我为他们探察过的流奶与蜜之地；那地是全地的荣耀。
On that day I lifted up My hand to them to bring them out of the land of Egypt to a land that I had spied out for them, flowing with milk and honey, which is the
glory of all the lands.
20:7 我对他们说，你们各人要抛弃眼中所喜爱那些可憎之物，不可因埃及的偶像玷污自己；我是耶和华你们的神。
And I said to them, Cast away, each of you, the detestable things of your eyes, and do not defile yourselves with the idols of Egypt; I am Jehovah your God.
20:8 他们却悖逆我，不肯听从我；各人不抛弃眼中所喜爱那些可憎之物，也不离弃埃及的偶像。我就说，我要将我的忿怒倾倒在他们身上，在埃及地向他
们发尽我的怒气。
But they rebelled against Me and were not willing to listen to Me; they did not, each one, cast away the detestable things of their eyes, nor did they forsake the
idols of Egypt. Thus I thought to pour out My wrath upon them and to spend My anger on them in the midst of the land of Egypt.
20:9 我却为我名的缘故行事，免得我的名在他们处于其中的列国人眼前被亵渎；我在这列国人的眼前使他们认识我，为要领他们出埃及地。
802
But I did something for My name's sake that it might not be profaned in the sight of the nations, in the midst of whom they were, in whose sight I had made
Myself known to them in order to bring them out of the land of Egypt.
20:10 这样，我就使他们出埃及地，领他们进入旷野，
Therefore I caused them to go forth from the land of Egypt, and I brought them into the wilderness.
20:11 将我的律例赐给他们，将我的典章指示他们；人若遵行这些，就必因这些活着。
And I gave them My statutes and made known to them My judgments, by which, if a man does them, he will live.
20:12 又将我的安息日赐给他们，好在我与他们中间作记号，叫他们知道我是那使他们分别为圣的耶和华。
And also I gave them My Sabbaths to be a sign between Me and them, that they might know that I am Jehovah who sanctifies them.
20:13 以色列家却在旷野悖逆我，不遵行我的律例，弃绝我的典章；(人若遵行这些，就必因这些活着；)他们大大渎犯我的安息日。我就说，我要在旷野将
我的忿怒倾倒在他们身上，灭绝他们。
But the house of Israel rebelled against Me in the wilderness; they did not walk in My statutes, and they rejected My judgments, by which, if a man does them, he
will live; and they greatly profaned My Sabbaths. Then I thought to pour out My wrath upon them in the wilderness, to consume them.
20:14 我却为我名的缘故行事，免得我的名在列国人眼前被亵渎；我曾在列国人眼前领他们出来。
But I did something for My name's sake that it might not be profaned in the sight of the nations, in whose sight I had caused them to go forth.
20:15 并且我在旷野也向他们举手起誓，必不领他们进入我所赐给他们流奶与蜜之地；(那地是全地的荣耀；)
Yet I also lifted up My hand to them in the wilderness that I would not bring them into the land that I had given them, a land flowing with milk and honey, which is
the glory of all the lands;
20:16 因为他们弃绝我的典章，不遵行我的律例，渎犯我的安息日，他们的心随从自己的偶像。
Because they rejected My judgments and did not walk in My statutes and profaned My Sabbaths, for their heart went after idols.
20:17 然而，我眼仍顾惜他们，不毁灭他们，不在旷野将他们灭绝净尽。
But My eye pitied them, so that I did not destroy them, and I did not bring them to their end in the wilderness.
20:18 我在旷野对他们的儿女说，不要遵行你们父亲的律例，不要谨守他们的规例，也不要因他们的偶像玷污自己。
And I said to their children in the wilderness, Do not walk in the statutes of your fathers or keep their judgments, and do not defile yourselves with their idols.
20:19 我是耶和华你们的神；你们要遵行我的律例，谨守遵行我的典章；
I am Jehovah your God; walk in My statutes and keep My judgments and do them;
20:20 且将我的安息日分别为圣，这日在我与你们中间作记号，叫你们知道我是耶和华你们的神。
And sanctify My Sabbaths, and they will be a sign between Me and you, that you might know that I am Jehovah your God.
20:21 只是他们的儿女悖逆我，不遵行我的律例，也不谨守遵行我的典章；(人若遵行这些，就必因这些活着；)他们渎犯我的安息日。我就说，我要将我的
忿怒倾倒在他们身上，在旷野向他们发尽我的怒气。
But the children rebelled against Me; they did not walk in My statutes and they were not careful to do My judgments, by which, if a man does them, he will live;
they profaned My Sabbaths. Then I thought to pour out My wrath upon them to spend My anger on them in the wilderness.
20:22 然而，我却缩手，为我名的缘故行事，免得我的名在列国人眼前被亵渎；我曾在列国人眼前领他们出来。
Yet I withdrew My hand and did something for My name's sake that it might not be profaned in the sight of the nations, in whose sight I had brought them out.
20:23 我在旷野也向他们举手起誓，必将他们分散在列国，四散在各地；
I also lifted up My hand to them in the wilderness that I would scatter them among the nations and would disperse them among the countries,
20:24 因为他们不遵行我的典章，竟弃绝我的律例，渎犯我的安息日，眼目追随他们父亲的偶像。
Because they did not do My judgments, but rejected My statutes and profaned My Sabbaths, and their eyes were directed to the idols of their fathers.
20:25 我也给他们不美的律例，以及不能使人活着的典章；
And I also gave them statutes that were not good and judgments by which they would not live,
20:26 因他们将一切头胎的经火，我就因他们这供献的事定他们为不洁净，好叫他们凄凉，使他们知道我是耶和华。
And I declared them unclean because of their gifts, in that they caused everything that opens the womb to pass through fire, that I might make them desolate so
that they would know that I am Jehovah.
20:27 因此，人子阿，你要告诉以色列家，说，主耶和华如此说，你们的列祖在以下的事上还是对我不忠信，亵渎我：
Therefore speak to the house of Israel, son of man, and say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Still yet in this your fathers blasphemed Me by acting unfaithfully
against Me:
20:28 我领他们到了我举手起誓要赐给他们的地，他们看见各高山、各茂密树，就在那里献祭，奉上惹我发怒的供物，也在那里献怡爽香气的祭，并浇上
奠祭。
When I had brought them into the land which I had lifted up My hand to give them, they saw every high hill and every leafy tree; and there they offered their
sacrifices, and there they presented the provocation of their offering, and there they made their sweet savor, and there they poured out their drink offerings.
20:29 我就对他们说，你们所到的那高处是什么呢？于是那高处的名字叫巴麻，直到今日。
Then I said to them, What is the high place to which you go? Therefore the name of it is called Bamah to this day.
20:30 所以你要对以色列家说，主耶和华如此说，你们仍照你们列祖所行的玷污自己么？仍照他们可憎的事行邪淫么？
Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Do you defile yourselves in the way of your fathers? And do you go about as a harlot after their
detestable things?
20:31 你们奉上供物使你们儿子经火的时候，就因一切偶像玷污自己，直到今日。以色列家阿，我岂被你们求问么？主耶和华说，我指着我的生存起誓，
我必不被你们求问。
And when you offer up your gifts, when you make your children pass through fire, you defile yourselves with all your idols until today. And shall I be inquired of by
you, O house of Israel? As I live, declares the Lord Jehovah, I will not be inquired of by you.
20:32 你们说，我们要像列国人和各地的各家族一样，去事奉木头与石头；你们灵里所起的这意念绝不能成就。
And that which comes up in your spirit shall by no means occur, that which you say, We will be like the nations, like the families of the countries, serving wood
and stone.
20:33 主耶和华说，我指着我的生存起誓，我总要作王，用大能的手和伸出来的膀臂，并倾倒出来的忿怒，治理你们。
As I live, declares the Lord Jehovah, surely with a strong hand and with an outstretched arm and with wrath poured out I will rule over you.
20:34 我必用大能的手和伸出来的膀臂，并倾倒出来的忿怒，将你们从万民中领出来，从你们分散到的各地聚集你们。
And I will bring you out from the peoples and will gather you from the countries among which you have been scattered, with a strong hand and with an
outstretched arm and with wrath poured out.
803
20:35 我必带你们进入众民的旷野，在那里当面审判你们。
And I will bring you into the wilderness of the peoples, and I will enter into judgment with you there face to face.
20:36 我怎样在埃及地的旷野审判你们的列祖，也必照样审判你们；这是主耶和华说的。
As I entered into judgment with your fathers in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so will I enter into judgment with you, declares the Lord Jehovah.
20:37 我必使你们从杖下经过，使你们受约的拘束。
And I will cause you to pass under the rod and will bring you into the bond of the covenant.
20:38 我必从你们中间除净叛逆和违背我的人，将他们从寄居的地领出来，他们却不得入以色列地。你们就知道我是耶和华。
And I will purge out from among you the rebels and those who transgress against Me; I will bring them out from the land of their sojourning, but not one will
enter into the land of Israel. Thus you will know that I am Jehovah.
20:39 以色列家阿，至于你们，主耶和华如此说，你们各人去事奉自己的偶像罢；只是以后你们必听从我，也必不再因你们的供物和偶像，亵渎我的圣名。
As for you, O house of Israel, thus says the Lord Jehovah, Go, serve every one his idols; but afterward, you shall surely listen to Me, and My holy name you will no
longer profane with your gifts and with your idols.
20:40 主耶和华说，在我的圣山，就是以色列高处的山，以色列全家所有的人都要在那地事奉我；我要在那里悦纳他们，我要在那里向你们要供物和初熟
的献礼，并一切的圣物。
For on My holy mountain, on the mountain of the height of Israel, declares the Lord Jehovah, there will the whole house of Israel, all of them, serve Me in the land;
there will I accept them and there will I require your contributions and the firstfruits of your offerings with all your holy things.
20:41 我从万民中领你们出来，从你们分散到的各地聚集你们，那时我必悦纳你们好像怡爽的香气；我要在列国人眼前在你们身上显为圣别。
As a sweet savor I will accept you, when I bring you out from the peoples and gather you from the countries among which you have been scattered; and I will be
sanctified in you in the sight of the nations.
20:42 我领你们进入以色列地，就是我举手起誓要赐给你们列祖之地，那时你们就知道我是耶和华。
And you will know that I am Jehovah, when I bring you into the land of Israel, into the land concerning which I lifted up My hand to give to your fathers.
20:43 你们在那里要追念你们那些玷污自己的行径和一切作为，又要因所作的一切恶事，看自己为可厌恶的。
And there you will remember your ways and all your doings by which you defiled yourselves; and you will loathe yourselves in your own sight for all your evils that
you have done.
20:44 主耶和华说，以色列家阿，我为我名的缘故，不照着你们邪恶的行径和你们败坏的作为待你们；你们就知道我是耶和华。
And you will know that I am Jehovah, when I have dealt with you for My name's sake, not according to your evil ways or according to your corrupt doings, O
house of Israel, declares the Lord Jehovah.
20:45 耶和华的话临到我，说，
And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
20:46 人子阿，你要面向提幔，向南方发言，说预言攻击南地田野的树林。
Son of man, set your face toward Teman, and utter something against the south and prophesy against the forest field of the Negev;
20:47 对南地的树林说，要听耶和华的话：主耶和华如此说，我必使火在你中间着起，烧灭你中间的一切青树和枯树；猛烈的火焰必不熄灭，从南到北，
地面都要烧焦。
And say to the forest of the Negev, Hear the word of Jehovah: Thus says the Lord Jehovah, I am now kindling a fire in you, and it will consume in you every tender
tree and every dry tree; the flaming flame will not be quenched, and every surface will be scorched, from the south to the north.
20:48 凡有血肉的都必看见，是我耶和华使火着起，这火必不熄灭。
And all flesh will see that I, Jehovah, kindled it; it will not be quenched.
20:49 于是我说，哎，主耶和华阿！人都指着我说，他岂不是只设比喻么？
Then I said, Ah, Lord Jehovah! They say of me, Does he not just use parables?
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 21 章
21:1 耶和华的话临到我，说，
And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
21:2 人子阿，你要面向耶路撒冷，发言攻击圣所，说预言攻击以色列地。
Son of man, set your face toward Jerusalem, and utter something against the holy places and prophesy against the land of Israel;
21:3 对以色列地说，耶和华如此说，我与你为敌，并要拔刀出鞘，从你中间剪除义人和恶人。
And say to the land of Israel, Thus says Jehovah, I am now against you, and I will draw My sword out of its sheath, and I will cut off from you the righteous man
and the wicked.
21:4 我既要从你中间剪除义人和恶人，所以我的刀要出鞘，自南至北攻击一切有血肉的。
Because I will cut off from you the righteous man and the wicked, therefore My sword will go forth out of its sheath against all flesh, from the south to the north.
21:5 一切有血肉的就知道我耶和华已经拔刀出鞘，必不再入鞘。
And all flesh will know that I, Jehovah, have drawn My sword out of its sheath; it will not return again.
21:6 至于你，人子阿，你要叹息！要在他们眼前腰间战抖，苦苦的叹息。
But you, son of man, groan! With the shaking of loins and with bitterness groan in their sight.
21:7 他们问你说，为何叹息？你就说，因为有风声传来；人心都必融化，手都发软，灵都衰败，膝弱如水。这事临近，必然发生；这是主耶和华说的。
And when they say to you, Why do you groan, you shall say, Because of the report that comes; and every heart will melt and every hand will be feeble and every
spirit will faint and every knee will flow into water. It is about to come and it will happen, declares the Lord Jehovah.
21:8 耶和华的话又临到我，说，
Again the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
21:9 人子阿，你要预言说，主如此说，你要说，有刀，有刀，是磨快擦亮的；
Son of man, prophesy and say, Thus says the Lord, Say: A sword, a sword is sharpened, and also polished.
21:10 磨快为要大行杀戮，擦亮为要像闪电。我们岂可快乐，竟然说，我儿子的杖藐视各树么？
It is sharpened to slaughter utterly, polished to flash like lightning. Or shall we rejoice, saying, The scepter of my son despises all other wood?
21:11 这刀已经交给人擦亮，为要应手使用。这刀已经磨快擦亮，好交在行杀戮的人手中。
804
And it is given to be polished, that it may be wielded in the hand. The sword-it is sharpened and it is polished, that it may be given into the hand of the slayer.
21:12 人子阿，你要呼喊哀号，因为这刀临到我的百姓，临到以色列一切的首领；他们和我的百姓都交在刀下，所以你要拍腿叹息。
Cry out and howl, son of man, for it will come against My people. It will come against all the princes of Israel; they are cast at the sword with My people; therefore
strike your thigh.
21:13 因为已经试验过了；若那藐视的杖也归于无有，怎么样呢？这是主耶和华说的。
For a trial has been made. And what if even the scepter that despises is no more? declares the Lord Jehovah.
21:14 人子阿，你要拍掌说预言；要使这刀，就是致死伤的刀，一连三次加倍刺人；这是使尊大者受死伤的刀，围困着他们。
You therefore, son of man, prophesy and clap your hands together; and let the sword be doubled a third time, the sword for the slain; it is the sword for a great
slain one that encircles them.
21:15 我设立这杀戮的刀，好在他们的一切城门，使他们丧胆，加增他们跌倒的事。哎！这刀造得像闪电，已经拔出，要行杀戮。
In order that hearts may fail and that occasions of falling may multiply at all their gates, I have given the slaughtering sword. Ah! It has been made to flash like
lightning; it is drawn for slaying.
21:16 刀阿，你归在右边，摆在左边；你面向那方，就向那方杀戮。
Gather yourself up, go to the right; set yourself, go to the left, to wherever your edge is appointed.
21:17 我也要拍掌，并要使我的忿怒止息；我耶和华这样说了。
And I, even I, will clap My hands together and will cause My wrath to rest; I, Jehovah, have spoken.
21:18 耶和华的话又临到我，说，
Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
21:19 人子阿，你要定出两条路，使巴比伦王的刀前来；这两条路必从一地出来。你又要在通城的路口设置指标。
And you, son of man, appoint two ways for the sword of the king of Babylon to come; out of one land both will come. And make a signpost; make it at the fork in
the road to each city.
21:20 你要定出一条路，使刀来到亚扪人的拉巴；又要定出一条路，使刀来到犹大的坚固城耶路撒冷。
You shall appoint a way for the sword to come, either to Rabbah of the children of Ammon, or to fortified Jerusalem in Judah.
21:21 因为巴比伦王站在岔路那里，在两条路口占卜；他摇箭作签求问神像，察看祭牲的肝。
For the king of Babylon stands at the parting of the road, at the fork in the two roads, using divination; he shakes his arrows, he inquires of the teraphim, he
observes the liver.
21:22 他右手中得到为耶路撒冷占卜的签，使他架设撞城锤，张口叫杀，扬声呐喊，以撞城锤攻打城门，筑围城土垒，造攻城土墙。
Into his right hand came the divination for Jerusalem, to set up the battering ram, to open his mouth in killing, to lift up his voice with a shout, to set the battering
rams against the gates, to cast up a mound, to build a siege wall.
21:23 据那些在耶路撒冷，曾郑重起誓的人看来，这是虚假的占卜；但祂要使他们想起罪孽，以致他们被捉住。
Yet to those in Jerusalem it will be as a false divination in their sight, to those who have sworn solemn oaths; but He brings the iniquity to remembrance, that they
may be taken.
21:24 因此主耶和华如此说，因你们的过犯显露，就使你们的罪孽被记念，以致你们的罪在一切行为上显出来；又因你们被记念，就被人用手捉住。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because you have made your iniquity to be remembered, in that your transgressions are uncovered, so that in all your
doings your sins appear, because you have come to remembrance, you will be taken with the hand.
21:25 你这亵渎、行恶的以色列首领阿，在罪孽尽头的时刻，你受报的日子已到。
And you, profane, wicked prince of Israel, whose day has come at the time of the iniquity of the end,
21:26 主耶和华如此说，当除掉冠，摘下冕；现有的必不再有。要使卑者升为高，使高者降为卑。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Remove the turban, and take off the crown; what is will not be. Exalt the lowly, and lay low the exalted.
21:27 我要将这国倾覆，倾覆，又倾覆；这国也必不再有，直等到那应得的来到，我就赐给祂。
Ruins, ruins, ruins will I make it; and this also will be no more, until He comes whose right it is; and I will give it to Him.
21:28 人子阿，你要发预言，说，论到亚扪人和他们的凌辱，主耶和华如此说，你要说，有刀，有刀拔出，为行杀戮，已经擦亮，以行吞灭，像闪电一样；
And you, son of man, prophesy and say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah concerning the children of Ammon and concerning their reproach; and say, A sword, a
sword, drawn for the slaughter, polished to consume, that it may flash like lightning -
21:29 那时，人为你见虚假的异象，行谎诈的占卜；使你倒在受死伤之恶人的颈项上，他们在罪孽尽头的时刻，受报的日子已到。
While they see vanity for you, while they divine deception for you-to bring you down upon the necks of the wicked slain, whose day has come at the time of the
iniquity of the end.
21:30 你收刀入鞘罢！在你受造之处、根源之地，我必审判你。
Return it to its sheath. In the place where you were created, in the land of your origin, I will judge you.
21:31 我必将我的恼恨倒在你身上，将我盛怒的火喷在你身上；又将你交在善于杀灭的残暴人手中。
And I will pour out My indignation upon you; with the fire of My overflowing wrath I will blow against you, and I will give you into the hand of brutal men, skilled in
destruction.
21:32 你必当柴被火焚烧，你的血必流在这地之中；你必不再被记念，因为我耶和华这样说了。
You will be fuel for the fire; your blood will be in the midst of the land; you will not be remembered; for I, Jehovah, have spoken.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 22 章
22:1 耶和华的话又临到我，说，
Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
22:2 人子阿，你要审问审问这流人血的城么？当使她知道她一切可憎的事。
Now you, son of man, will you judge, will you judge the bloody city? Therefore make her know all her abominations.
22:3 你要说，主耶和华如此说，这城有流人血的事在其中，叫她受报的时候来到，又造偶像陷害自己，玷污自己！
And you shall say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, A city that sheds blood in the midst of her, that her time may come, and that makes idols, against her own good,
that she may defile herself!
22:4 你因流了人的血，就为有罪；你造了偶像，就玷污自己，使你受报之日临近，你也来到你受报之年。所以我叫你受列国的凌辱和各地的讥诮。
805
You are guilty for the blood which you have shed and have defiled yourself with the idols which you have made; and you have caused your days to draw near
and have come to your years. Therefore I have made you a reproach to the nations and a mocking to all the countries.
22:5 你这名声败坏、纷扰多乱的城阿，那些离你近、离你远的都必讥诮你。
Those who are near and those who are far off from you will mock you, who are ill-reputed and in great tumult.
22:6 看哪，以色列的首领各逞其能，在你中间要流人血。
Indeed the princes of Israel, each according to his power, were within you to shed blood.
22:7 在你中间有轻慢父母的，有欺压寄居的，有亏负孤儿寡妇的。
They have lightly esteemed father and mother within you; they have treated the stranger with oppression in the midst of you, and the orphan and the widow they
have ill-treated within you.
22:8 你藐视了我的圣物，渎犯了我的安息日。
You have despised My holy things and have profaned My Sabbaths.
22:9 在你中间有谗谤人、要流人血的；有在山上吃过祭偶像之物的，有行淫乱的。
Slanderous men are within you in order to shed blood, and within you they have eaten upon the mountains; in the midst of you they have committed lewdness.
22:10 在你中间有露父亲下体的，有玷辱在月经污秽中之妇人的。
In you they have uncovered the nakedness of their father; they have humbled women in their uncleanness within you.
22:11 这人与邻舍的妻子行可憎的事；那人贪淫玷污儿媳；还有玷辱同父之姊妹的。
And one has committed abomination with his neighbor's wife, and another has lewdly defiled his daughter-in-law, and another has humbled his sister, his
father's daughter, within you.
22:12 在你中间有人为流人血受贿赂；有人放债取利，向借贷的人多要，并且欺压邻舍夺取不义之财，竟忘了我；这是主耶和华说的。
Within you they have taken bribes in order to shed blood; you have taken interest and increase and have wrested unjust gain from your neighbors by extortion
and have forgotten Me, declares the Lord Jehovah.
22:13 看哪，我因你所得不义之财和你中间所流的血，就击掌叹息。
Therefore I have now struck My hand against your wrested unjust gain which you have made and at the bloodshed which is in the midst of you.
22:14 到了我对付你的日子，你的心能忍受么？你的手有力量么？我耶和华说过，也必成就。
Can your heart endure, or can your hands be strong, in the days when I will deal with you? I, Jehovah, have spoken, and I will do it.
22:15 我必将你分散在列国，四散在各地，我也必从你中间除尽你的污秽。
And I will scatter you among the nations and disperse you among the countries, and I will consume your uncleanness from you.
22:16 你必在列国人的眼前因自己所行的被亵渎，你就知道我是耶和华。
And you will be profaned through yourself in the sight of the nations, and you will know that I am Jehovah.
22:17 耶和华的话临到我，说，
And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
22:18 人子阿，以色列家对我成了渣滓；他们都是炉中的铜、锡、铁、铅，都是银的渣滓。
Son of man, the house of Israel has become dross to Me; all of them are brass and tin and iron and lead in the midst of the furnace; they are the dross of silver.
22:19 所以主耶和华如此说，因你们都成了渣滓，我必将你们聚集在耶路撒冷中。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because all of you have become dross, therefore I am now gathering you into the midst of Jerusalem.
22:20 人怎样将银、铜、铁、铅、锡聚在炉中，吹火镕化；照样，我也要发怒气和忿怒，将你们聚集放在城中，镕化你们。
As they gather silver and brass and iron and lead and tin into the midst of the furnace to blow fire upon it and smelt it, so will I gather you in My anger and in My
wrath; and I will lay you there and smelt you.
22:21 我必聚集你们，把我盛怒的火吹在你们身上，你们就在其中镕化。
Yes, I will gather you and blow upon you with the fire of My overflowing wrath, and you will be smelted in the midst of it.
22:22 银子怎样镕化在炉中，你们也必照样镕化在城中；你们就知道我耶和华将忿怒倾倒在你们身上了。
As silver is smelted in the midst of the furnace, so will you be smelted in the midst of it; and you will know that I, Jehovah, have poured out My wrath upon you.
22:23 耶和华的话临到我，说，
And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
22:24 人子阿，你要对这地说，你是未得洁净之地，在恼恨的日子也没有雨下在你以上。
Son of man, say to her, You are a land that is not cleansed or rained upon in the day of indignation.
22:25 其中的申言者同谋背叛，如咆哮的狮子抓夺猎物：他们吞灭人民，抢夺财物和珍宝，使其中的寡妇增多。
There is a conspiracy of her prophets in the midst of her, like a roaring lion taking prey: They have devoured souls; they have taken treasure and precious things;
they have increased the number of her widows in the midst of her.
22:26 其中的祭司强解我的律法，亵渎我的圣物，不分圣别的和污俗的，也不使人分辨洁净的和不洁净的，又遮眼不顾我的安息日；我也在他们中间被亵
渎。
Her priests have done violence to My law and have profaned My holy things; they have made no distinction between the holy and the profane, nor have they
made the difference known between the unclean and the clean; and from My Sabbaths they have hidden their eyes; and I am profaned in the midst of them.
22:27 其中的首领仿佛豺狼抓夺猎物，流人的血，灭人的命，要得不义之财。
Her rulers within her are like wolves taking prey, by shedding blood and destroying souls in order to wrest unjust gain.
22:28 其中的申言者为百姓用未泡透的灰粉饰他们的行为，就是为他们见虚假的异象，用谎诈的占卜，说，主耶和华如此说，其实耶和华没有说。
And her prophets have plastered over their deeds with whitewash for them, seeing vain visions and deceptive divination for them, saying, Thus says the Lord
Jehovah, when Jehovah has not spoken.
22:29 这地的民一味欺压人，惯行抢夺，亏负困苦穷乏的，背理欺压寄居的。
The people of the land have practiced extortion and have committed plunder and have oppressed the poor and needy and have mistreated the stranger without
justice.
22:30 我在他们中间寻找一人重修墙垣，在我面前为这地站在破口防堵，使我不灭绝这地，却找不着一个。
And I sought a man among them who would build up the wall and stand in the breach before Me for the sake of the land so that I would not destroy it, but I
found no one.
22:31 所以我将恼恨倾倒在他们身上，用盛怒的火灭了他们，照他们所行的报应在他们头上；这是主耶和华说的。
806
Therefore I have poured out My indignation upon them; in the fire of My overflowing wrath I have consumed them; I have brought their own way upon their heads,
declares the Lord Jehovah.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 23 章
23:1 耶和华的话又临到我，说，
And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
23:2 人子阿，有两个女子，是一母所生；
Son of man, there were two women, the daughters of one woman;
23:3 她们在埃及行邪淫，在幼年时行邪淫；她们在那里作处女的时候，有人抚摸她们的胸，抚弄她们的乳。
And they committed fornication in Egypt; in their youth they committed fornication; there their breasts were pressed, and there their virgin bosoms were handled.
23:4 她们的名字：姐姐是阿荷拉，妹妹是阿荷利巴；她们都归于我，生了儿女。论到她们的名字，阿荷拉就是撒玛利亚，阿荷利巴就是耶路撒冷。
And their names were Oholah, the older one, and Oholibah, her sister; and they became Mine, and they bore sons and daughters. And as for their names,
Samaria is Oholah, and Jerusalem is Oholibah.
23:5 阿荷拉离开我行邪淫，贪恋所爱的人，就是邻近的亚述人；
And Oholah committed fornication instead of remaining with Me, and she lusted after her lovers, after the Assyrians, who were close to her,
23:6 这些人都穿紫衣，作省长和官长，都是可爱的少年人，是骑着马的骑士。
Who were clothed in purple, governors and officials, all of them desirable young men, horsemen riding horses.
23:7 阿荷拉就与他们放纵淫行，他们都是亚述人中最美的男子；她因一切所贪恋之人，因他们的一切偶像，玷污了自己。
And she bestowed her fornication upon them, all of them the choice men of Assyria; and with all whom she lusted after, with all their idols, she defiled herself.
23:8 她没有离开从她在埃及的时候就犯的淫乱；因为她年幼作处女的时候，埃及人就与她同寝，抚摸她的乳，纵欲与她行淫。
And she did not abandon her fornication from her time in Egypt; for in her youth they had lain with her, and they had handled her virgin bosom, and they had
poured out their fornication upon her.
23:9 因此，我将她交在她所爱的人手中，就是她所贪恋的亚述人手中。
Therefore I gave her into the hand of her lovers, into the hand of the Assyrians whom she lusted after.
23:10 他们露了她的下体，夺去她的儿女，用刀杀了她。她就在妇女中留下臭名，并且他们向她施行审判。
They uncovered her nakedness; they took her sons and daughters, and they slew her with the sword. And she became a byword among women, and they
executed judgments upon her.
23:11 她妹妹阿荷利巴虽然看见了，却还贪恋，比她姐姐更败坏，行淫乱比她姐姐更厉害。
And her sister Oholibah saw this, but she was more corrupt in her lust than she and more corrupt in her fornication than the fornication of her sister.
23:12 她贪恋邻近的亚述人，就是穿极华美衣服的省长和官长，是骑着马的骑士，都是可爱的少年人。
She lusted after the Assyrians, governors and officials, who were close to her, clothed splendidly, horsemen riding horses, all of them desirable young men.
23:13 我看见她被玷污了；她们姊妹二人同行一路。
Then I saw that she was defiled. Both had taken the same way.
23:14 阿荷利巴又加增淫行：她看见人像画在墙上，就是用丹色所画迦勒底人的像，
And she increased her fornication: When she saw men portrayed upon the wall, images of Chaldeans portrayed in vermillion,
23:15 腰间系着带子，头上有下垂的裹头巾，都是军长的形状，仿照巴比伦人的形像，他们的出生地就是迦勒底；
Girded with belts upon their loins, with flowing turbans on their heads, all of them looking like officers, like the Babylonians of Chaldea, the land of their birth;
23:16 阿荷利巴一看见就贪恋他们，打发使者往迦勒底去见他们。
She lusted after them, her eyes seeing them; and she sent messengers to them in Chaldea.
23:17 巴比伦人就来，上了她爱情的床，与她行淫玷污她。她被玷污，随后心里与他们生疏。
And the Babylonians came to her at the bed of love and defiled her with their fornication. And when she had been defiled by them, her desire for them departed.
23:18 这样，她显露淫行，又显露下体；我心就与她生疏，像先前与她姐姐生疏一样。
Thus she uncovered her fornication and she uncovered her nakedness, and My desire for her departed, as My desire for her sister had departed.
23:19 她还加增她的淫行，追念她幼年在埃及地行邪淫的日子。
Yet she multiplied her fornication by recalling the days of her youth, when she committed fornication in the land of Egypt.
23:20 她贪恋那些身壮如驴，精足如马的情人。
And she lusted after their paramours, whose flesh is like the flesh of donkeys and whose issue is like the issue of horses.
23:21 这样，你就渴想你幼年的淫行；那时，埃及人抚摸你幼年的胸，抚弄你的乳。
Thus you sought after the lewdness of your youth, when the Egyptians handled your bosom because of the breasts of your youth.
23:22 因此，阿荷利巴阿，主耶和华如此说，我必激动你所爱，而后心里生疏的人来攻击你，我必领他们从四围来攻击你。
Therefore, O Oholibah, thus says the Lord Jehovah, I am now rousing your lovers against you, from whom your desire departed, and am bringing them against
you from all around:
23:23 所来的就是巴比伦人、迦勒底的众人、比割人、书亚人、哥亚人，同着他们的还有亚述众人，是可爱的少年人，都是作省长和官长、作军长有名声
的，都骑着马。
The Babylonians and all the Chaldeans, Pekod and Shoa and Koa, all the Assyrians with them, desirable young men, governors and officials all of them, officers
and men of renown, all of them riding on horses.
23:24 他们必带兵器、战车、辎重车，率领聚集的众民来攻击你；他们要拿大小盾牌，顶盔摆阵，在你四围攻击你。我要将审判的事交给他们，他们必按
着自己的条例审判你。
And they will come against you with weapons, chariots and wheels, and with a company of peoples; they will set shield and buckler and helmet against you all
around. And I will set judgment before them, and they will judge according to their judgments.
23:25 我必以妒忌攻击你，使他们以忿怒对付你；他们必割去你的鼻子和耳朵，你遗留的人必倒在刀下；他们必夺去你的儿女，并用火焚烧你所遗留的。
And I will set My jealousy against you that they may deal with you in wrath; they will remove your nose and your ears, and your residue will fall by the sword; they
will take your sons and your daughters, and they will consume your residue with fire.
23:26 他们也必剥去你的衣服，夺取你华美的物件。
807
They will also strip you of your garments and take your beautiful articles.
23:27 这样，我必使你的淫行，和你从埃及地染来的淫乱止息了，使你不再仰望他们，也不再追念埃及。
Thus I will put an end to your lewdness and to your fornication brought from the land of Egypt, so that you will not lift up your eyes to them or remember Egypt
anymore.
23:28 主耶和华如此说，我必将你交在你所恨恶的人手中，就是你心与他生疏的人手中。
For thus says the Lord Jehovah, I am now giving you into the hand of those whom you hate, into the hand of those from whom your desire has departed.
23:29 他们必以恨恶对付你，夺取你一切劳碌得来的，撇下你赤身露体；你淫乱的下体，连你的淫行，带你的淫乱，都被显露。
And they will deal with you in hatred and will take all that you have gained; and they will abandon you, naked and bare, and the nakedness of your fornication
will be uncovered, both your lewdness and your fornication.
23:30 人必向你行这些事，因为你随从外邦人行邪淫，被他们的偶像玷污了。
These things will be done to you because you have gone after the nations as a harlot, because you have defiled yourself with their idols.
23:31 你走了你姐姐所走的路，所以我必将她的杯交在你手中。
You have walked in the way of your sister; therefore I will give her cup into your hand.
23:32 主耶和华如此说，你必喝你姐姐所喝的杯；那杯又深又广，盛得甚多，使你被人嗤笑讥刺。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, You will drink your sister's cup, Deep and wide; You will be a laughingstock and a mockery; It contains much.
23:33 你必酩酊大醉，满有愁苦，喝干那令人惊骇凄凉的杯，就是你姐姐撒玛利亚的杯。
You will be filled with drunkenness and sorrow, The cup of horror and desolation, The cup of your sister Samaria.
23:34 你必喝这杯，以致喝尽，杯破又啃杯片；你必撕裂自己的胸；因为这事我曾说过，这是主耶和华说的。
And you will drink it and drain it And gnaw at its shards; And you will tear out your breasts; For I have spoken, declares the Lord Jehovah.
23:35 主耶和华如此说，因你忘记我，将我丢在背后，所以你也要担当你淫行和淫乱的报应。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because you have forgotten Me and have cast Me behind your back, bear now as well your lewdness and your fornication.
23:36 耶和华又对我说，人子阿，你要审问阿荷拉与阿荷利巴么？当向她们说明她们所行可憎的事。
And Jehovah said to me, Son of man, will you judge Oholah and Oholibah? Then declare their abominations to them.
23:37 她们行奸淫，手中有杀人的血，又与偶像行奸淫，并使她们为我所生的儿女经火烧给偶像。
For they have committed adultery, and blood is on their hands; indeed they have committed adultery with their idols and have also caused their children, whom
they bore unto Me, to pass through fire to their idols, to be devoured.
23:38 此外，她们还向我行了这事，就是同日玷污我的圣所，渎犯我的安息日。
Moreover they have done this to Me: They have defiled My sanctuary on the same day and have profaned My Sabbaths.
23:39 她们杀了儿女献与偶像，当天又入我的圣所，将圣所亵渎了；她们在我殿中竟如此行。
For when they slaughtered their children to their idols, they entered My sanctuary on the same day to profane it; and they have even done this in the midst of My
house.
23:40 况且她们打发使者去请远方的人来，使者奉差到他们那里，他们就来了；你们为他们沐浴己身，粉饰眼目，佩戴妆饰，
Furthermore, they sent for men who come from afar, to whom a messenger was sent; and indeed they came; for them you bathed, painted your eyes, and
decked yourself with ornaments;
23:41 坐在华美的床上，前面摆设桌案，将我的油和香摆在其上。
And you sat upon a splendid bed with a table prepared before it, on which you had set My incense and My oil.
23:42 在她们那里有安逸的群众喧哗的声音，并有粗俗的人和酒徒从旷野同来，把镯子戴在两个妇人的手上，把华冠戴在她们的头上。
And the sound of a multitude without care was with her; and drunkards were brought from the wildernesswith people of the common sort, who put bracelets
upon the hands of the women and beautiful crowns on their heads.
23:43 我论这行奸淫而衰颓的妇人说，现在她既已如此，人还要与她行淫么？
Then I said concerning her who was worn out by adulteries, Will they now commit fornication with her when she is thus?
23:44 但人与她们同寝，好像与妓女同寝；他们就是这样与阿荷拉和阿荷利巴这二淫妇同寝。
But they went in to her as they would to a woman who is a harlot; thus they went in to Oholah and to Oholibah, the lewd women.
23:45 必有义人，照审判淫妇和流人血的妇人之例，审判她们；因为她们是淫妇，手中有杀人的血。
And righteous men, they will judge them with the judgment of adulteresses and with the judgment of women who shed blood, because they are adulteresses
and blood is on their hands.
23:46 主耶和华如此说，我必使多人来攻击她们，使她们惊慌，被人抢夺。
For thus says the Lord Jehovah, Bring up a company against them, and give them up to terror and plunder.
23:47 这许多人必用石头打死她们，用刀剑砍杀她们，又杀戮她们的儿女，用火焚烧她们的房屋。
And the company will stone them with stones and cut them down with their swords; they will slay their sons and their daughters and burn their houses with fire.
23:48 这样，我必使淫行从这地止息，好叫一切妇人都受警戒，不效法你们的淫行。
Thus I will cause lewdness to cease from the land, that all women may be admonished not to conduct themselves in the way of your lewdness.
23:49 人必将你们淫行的报应加在你们身上，你们也要担当拜偶像的罪，你们就知道我是主耶和华。
And they will bring your lewdness upon you, and you will bear the sins of having your idols, and you will know that I am the Lord Jehovah.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 24 章
24:1 第九年十月初十日，耶和华的话又临到我，说，
Then the word of Jehovah came to me, in the ninth year, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, saying,
24:2 人子阿，今日正是巴比伦王围困耶路撒冷的日子，你要将今日的日期记下。
Son of man, write down the name of the day, this very day. The king of Babylon laid siege to Jerusalem this very day.
24:3 要向这悖逆之家设比喻，对他们说，主耶和华如此说，将锅放在火上，放好了，就倒水在其中；
And utter a parable to the rebellious house, and say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Put on a pot-put it on; And also pour water into it;
24:4 将肉块，就是一切上好的肉块、腿和肩，都聚在其中，拿最好的骨头把锅装满。
Gather into it its pieces, Every good piece, the thigh, and the shoulder; Fill it with choice bones.
808
24:5 取羊群中最好的，将柴堆在锅下，使锅开滚，把骨头也煮在其中。
Take the choice of the flock, And also put a pile of wood under it; Bring it to a vigorous boil; Indeed let its bones be boiled in it.
24:6 因此，主耶和华如此说，祸哉，这流人血的城，就是长锈的锅，其中的锈未曾除掉！要将肉块从其中一一取出来，不必拈阄。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Woe to the bloody city, to the pot in which there is rust and whose rust has not gone out of it! Take its pieces out of it piece
by piece; no lot has fallen upon it.
24:7 因城中有她害人所流的血；她将血置于光秃的磐石上，不倒在地上用土掩盖。
For her blood was within her; she put it on a bare rock; she did not pour it upon the ground to cover it with dust.
24:8 我将这城中所流的血置于光秃的磐石上，不得掩盖，为要激起忿怒，施行报应。
In order to stir up wrath, to take vengeance, I have set her blood upon a bare rock, so that it might not be covered.
24:9 所以主耶和华如此说，祸哉，这流人血的城！我也必大堆火柴，
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Woe to the bloody city! I will also make the pile great.
24:10 添上木柴，使火着旺，将肉煮烂，调入香料，使骨头烤焦；
Heap on the wood, light the fire, boil the meat well, and mix in spices, and let the bones be burned.
24:11 把锅倒空放在炭火上，使锅烧热，使铜烧红，镕化其中的污秽，除净其上的锈。
Then stand it empty upon its coals, so that it may get hot and its bronze may glow, so that its filthiness may be burned away in it and its rust may be consumed.
24:12 这锅劳碌疲乏，极多的大锈仍未去掉；甚愿这锈得以烧在火中。
She has wearied herself with toil, yet her great rust has not gone out of her. Let her rust be in the fire.
24:13 因为你淫行的污秽，我虽要洁净你，你却不得洁净，所以你的污秽再不能洁净，直等我向你发的忿怒止息。
Because of your lewd filthiness-because I tried to cleanse you, but you did not get clean, you shall not be cleansed from your filthiness anymore, until I have
caused My wrath toward you to rest.
24:14 我耶和华说过的，时候到了，我必作成；我必不退回，必不顾惜，也不后悔。我必照你的行径和作为审判你，这是主耶和华说的。
I, Jehovah, have spoken. The time is coming, and I will do it; I will not refrain, nor will I spare, nor will I repent. According to your ways and according to your
doings I will judge you, declares the Lord Jehovah.
24:15 耶和华的话又临到我，说，
Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
24:16 人子阿，我要击打你，把你眼目所喜爱的取去；你却不可悲哀哭泣，也不可流泪。
Son of man, I am about to take away the delight of your eyes from you with a blow. Yet you shall neither mourn nor weep, nor shall your tears come.
24:17 只可默默叹息，不可为死人办理丧事；头上要缠着头巾，脚上穿着鞋，不可蒙着嘴唇，也不可吃吊丧的食物。
Groan silently; make no mourning for the dead; bind your turban upon you, and put your sandals upon your feet, and do not cover your lips, and do not eat the
bread of men.
24:18 于是我在早晨将这事告诉百姓，晚上我的妻子就死了。次日早晨我便遵命而行。
So I spoke to the people in the morning, and in the evening my wife died. And in the morning I did as I was commanded.
24:19 百姓问我说，你这样行对我们表示什么，你不告诉我们么？
And the people said to me, Will you not tell us what these things you are doing signify to us?
24:20 我回答他们：耶和华的话临到我，说，
So I said to them, The word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
24:21 你告诉以色列家，主耶和华如此说，我必使我的圣所，就是你们力量所夸耀、眼里所喜爱、心中所爱惜的被亵渎，并且你们所遗留的儿女必倒在刀
下。
Speak to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, I will profane My sanctuary, the pride of your strength, the delight of your eyes, and that which your soul
longs after; and your sons and your daughters whom you have left behind will fall by the sword.
24:22 那时，你们必照我所行的去行，不蒙着嘴唇，也不吃吊丧的食物。
And you will do as I have done; you shall not cover your lips, nor shall you eat the bread of men.
24:23 你们要头上缠着头巾，脚上穿鞋；不可悲哀哭泣，却要在自己的罪孽中相对叹息，渐渐消灭。
And your turbans shall be upon your heads, and your sandals, upon your feet; you shall not mourn nor weep, but you shall rot away in your iniquities and groan
one to another.
24:24 以西结必这样作你们的表号；凡他所行的，你们也必照样行。那事来到，你们就知道我是主耶和华。
Thus Ezekiel will be a sign to you. You shall do just as all he has done. And when it comes, you will know that I am the Lord Jehovah.
24:25 至于你，人子阿，当那日，我要除掉他们的力量、他们夸耀的欢乐、他们眼中所喜爱的、并他们心里所重看的、以及他们的儿女；
As for you, son of man, surely on the day when I take from them their strength, the joy of their glory, the desire of their eyes, and what they have set their heart on,
their sons and their daughters,
24:26 那日必有逃脱的人到你这里，使你耳闻这事。
On that day one who has escaped will come to you to report it in your ears.
24:27 那日你必向逃脱的人开口说话，不再哑口。你必这样作他们的表号，他们就知道我是耶和华。
On that day your mouth will be opened to the one who has escaped, and you shall speak and no longer be dumb. So you shall become a sign to them, and they
will know that I am Jehovah.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 25 章
25:1 耶和华的话临到我，说，
Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
25:2 人子阿，你要面向亚扪人说预言，攻击他们。
Son of man, set your face against the children of Ammon and prophesy concerning them.
25:3 你要对亚扪人说，你们当听主耶和华的话：主耶和华如此说，我的圣所被亵渎，以色列地变荒凉，犹大家被迁徙离去；你对这些事竟说，阿哈！
And you shall say to the children of Ammon, Hear the word of the Lord Jehovah: Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because you said, Aha! against My sanctuary when
it was desecrated, and against the land of Israel when it was desolated, and against the house of Judah when it went off into exile;
809
25:4 所以我必将你的地交给东方人为业；他们必在你们中间安营居住，吃你的果子，喝你的奶。
Therefore I am about to deliver you up to the children of the east to be dispossessed, and they will set up their encampments among you and put their dwellings
among you. It is they who will eat your fruit and drink your milk.
25:5 我必使拉巴成为牧放骆驼的地方，使亚扪人的地成为羊群躺卧之处，你们就知道我是耶和华。
And I will make Rabbah pasture land for camels and the cities of the children of Ammon folds for flocks, and you will know that I am Jehovah.
25:6 因为主耶和华如此说，因你拍手顿足，心里满了毒恨，因以色列地遭灾而欢喜，
For thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because you have clapped your hands and stamped your feet and rejoiced with all the malice within you against the land of
Israel,
25:7 所以我已伸手攻击你，我必将你交给列国作为掠物，并从万民中剪除你，从各地除灭你。我必将你灭绝，你就知道我是耶和华。
Therefore now I have stretched out My hand against you, and I will deliver you as booty to the nations and cut you off from the peoples and destroy you from the
lands; I will destroy you that you may know that I am Jehovah.
25:8 主耶和华如此说，因摩押人说，看哪，犹大家与列国无异，
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because Moab has said, Look, the house of Judah is just like all the other nations!
25:9 所以我要破开摩押的侧面，取下其边界上的城邑，就是摩押人看为那地之荣耀的伯耶西末、巴力免、基列亭。
Therefore I am about to open up the flank of Moab, taking cities from the cities on its frontier, the pride of the land, Beth-jeshimoth, Baal-meon, even to
Kiriathaim.
25:10 我必将摩押连同亚扪人之地交给东方人为业，使亚扪人在列国中不再被记念。
I will also deliver it along with the children of Ammon to the children of the east to be dispossessed, so that the children of Ammon might not be remembered
among the nations.
25:11 我必向摩押施行审判，他们就知道我是耶和华。
So I will execute judgments against Moab that they may know that I am Jehovah.
25:12 主耶和华如此说，因为以东报仇雪恨，攻击犹大家，向他们报仇，大大有罪，
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because Edom has acted full of vengeance against the house of Judah and has incurred serious guilt by taking vengeance on them,
25:13 所以主耶和华如此说，我必伸手攻击以东，从其中剪除人与牲畜，使那地变为荒凉；从提幔直到底但，人必倒在刀下。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, I will also stretch out My hand against Edom and cut off from them man and beast and make it a desolation. From Teman
even to Dedan they will fall by the sword.
25:14 我必将报复以东的事交在我民以色列的手中；以色列民必照我的怒气和我的忿怒，在以东施报，以东人就知道是我施报；这是主耶和华说的。
And I will inflict My vengeance upon Edom by the hand of My people Israel, and they shall act in Edom according to My anger and My wrath. Then they will know
My vengeance, declares the Lord Jehovah.
25:15 主耶和华如此说，因非利士人向犹大人报仇，心存毒恨，报仇雪恨，永怀仇恨，要毁灭他们，
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because the Philistines have acted in vengeance and have been full of vengeance acting with malice within them to destroy with a
perpetual enmity,
25:16 所以主耶和华如此说，我必伸手攻击非利士人，剪除基利提人，灭绝沿海余剩的人。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, I am about to stretch out My hand against the Philistines and cut off the Cherithites and destroy the remnant of the
seashore.
25:17 我要向他们大施报复，发怒惩治他们；我报复他们的时候，他们就知道我是耶和华。
And I will execute a great vengeance upon them with chastisements of wrath that they may know that I am Jehovah, when I have inflicted My vengeance on
them.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 26 章
26:1 第十一年某月初一日，耶和华的话临到我，说，
And in the eleventh year, on the first of the month, the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
26:2 人子阿，因推罗论到耶路撒冷说，阿哈，那作众民之门的已经破坏，转而向我开放；她既变为荒场，我必得丰满。
Son of man, because Tyre has spoken against Jerusalem, saying, Aha! She is broken, the gateway of the peoples! She has been turned over to me; I will be filled;
now she has been desolated.
26:3 所以，主耶和华如此说，推罗阿，我必与你为敌，使许多国上来攻击你，如同海使波浪涌上来一样。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, I am now against you, O Tyre, and I will stir up many nations against you, just as the sea stirs up its waves.
26:4 他们必破坏推罗的墙垣，拆毁她的城楼。我也要刮净她的尘土，使她成为光秃的磐石。
And they will destroy the walls of Tyre and break down her towers. I will also scrape her dust from her and make her bare rock.
26:5 她必在海中作晒网的地方，因为我已经说了；这是主耶和华说的；她必成为列国的掳物。
She will be a place in the midst of the sea where nets are spread, for I have spoken, declares the Lord Jehovah; and she will become spoil to the nations.
26:6 推罗在田野的众女儿必被刀剑杀灭，他们就知道我是耶和华。
And her daughters who are in the field will be slain by the sword that they might know that I am Jehovah.
26:7 因为主耶和华如此说，我必使诸王之王，就是巴比伦王尼布甲尼撒，率领马匹、战车、马兵、和聚集的许多人民，从北方来攻击你推罗。
For thus says the Lord Jehovah, I am about to bring against Tyre from the north Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon, the king of kings, with horses, chariots,
horsemen, a company, and many people.
26:8 他必用刀剑杀灭你在田野的众女儿，也必造攻城土墙，筑围城土垒，举盾牌攻击你。
He will slay your daughters in the field by the sword, and he will lay a siege wall against you and cast up a mound against you and raise up a shield against you.
26:9 他必架设撞城锤攻破你的墙垣，用刀斧拆毁你的城楼。
And he will set his battering rams against your walls, and with his axes he will break down your towers.
26:10 因他的马匹众多，尘土扬起遮蔽你。他进入你的城门，好像人进入已有破口之城；那时，你的墙垣必因骑马的和辎重车、战车的响声震动。
Because of the abundance of his horses, their dust will cover you; your walls will shake at the noise of the horsemen and wagons and chariots when he enters
through your gates like those who enter a breached city.
26:11 他的马蹄必践踏你一切的街道，他必用刀杀戮你的百姓；你坚固的柱子必倒在地上。
810
With the hooves of his horses he will trample down all your streets; he will slay your people by the sword, and the pillars of your strength will topple to the ground.
26:12 人必以你的财宝为掳物，以你的货财为掠物，破坏你的墙垣，拆毁你华美的房屋，将你的石头、木头、尘土都投在水中。
And they will plunder your wealth and take your merchandise as spoil, and they will break down your walls and tear down your pleasant houses, and they will
put your stones and your timber and your dust into the water.
26:13 我必使你唱歌的响声止息，人也不再听见你弹琴的声音。
And I will cause the noise of your songs to cease, and the sound of your harps will no longer be heard.
26:14 我必使你成为光秃的磐石，作晒网的地方；你不得再被建造，因为我耶和华已经说了；这是主耶和华说的。
And I will make you bare rock. You will be a place where nets are spread; you shall no longer be built; for I, Jehovah, have spoken, declares the Lord Jehovah.
26:15 主耶和华对推罗如此说，在你中间发生杀戮的事，受伤之人唉哼的时候，众海岛岂不都因你倾倒的响声震动么？
Thus says the Lord Jehovah to Tyre: How the coastlands will shake at the sound of your fall, when the wounded groan, when slaughter occurs in your midst!
26:16 那时靠海的首领必都下位，除去外袍，脱下刺绣的衣服，披上战兢，坐在地上，时刻发抖，为你惊骇。
Then all the princes of the sea will come down from their thrones and lay aside their robes and strip off their embroidered garments. They will clothe themselves
with trembling; they will sit on the ground and tremble every moment and be astonished at you.
26:17 他们必为你举哀，对你说，你这受称赞的城，素来有人居住，靠海坚固有力的；你和居民曾使一切住在那里的人惊恐，现在何竟从海上毁灭了？
And they will take up a lamentation over you and say to you, How you have perished, O inhabited one, From the sea, O praised city, Which was strong by the sea,
She and her inhabitants, Who imposed their terror on all her inhabitants!
26:18 如今在你倾覆的日子，海岛都必战兢；海中的群岛因你消逝就都惊惶。
Now the coastlands will tremble On the day of your fall; The coastlands which are by the sea Will indeed be troubled because of your departure.
26:19 主耶和华如此说，推罗阿，我使你变为荒凉之城，如无人居住的城邑；又使深水上涨漫过你，使大水淹没你；
For thus says the Lord Jehovah, When I make you a desolate city, like cities which are not inhabited, when I bring up the deep over you and the mighty waters
cover you,
26:20 那时，我要叫你与下坑的人一同下到古人那里，与下坑的人一同住在地的低下之处，如同在久已荒凉之处居住，使你不再有居民，也不得在活人之
地显荣耀。
I will bring you down with those who descend into the pit, to the people of old, and I will make you dwell in the lower parts of the earth, like the ancient waste
places, with those who go down to the pit, so you will not be inhabited, nor shine out glory in the land of the living.
26:21 我必叫你令人惊恐，你必不再存留。人虽寻找你，却永远不再寻见；这是主耶和华说的。
I will make you a terror, and you will not exist. Although you will be sought after, you will never again be found, declares the Lord Jehovah.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 27 章
27:1 耶和华的话又临到我，说，
The word of Jehovah came again to me, saying,
27:2 人子阿，要为推罗举哀；
Now you, son of man, take up a lamentation over Tyre;
27:3 要对推罗说，你居住海口，是众民的商埠，你的交易通到许多的海岛。主耶和华如此说，推罗阿，你曾说，我是全然美丽的。
And say to Tyre, O you who dwell at the entry to the sea, merchant of the peoples to many coastlands, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, You, O Tyre, have said, I am
perfect in beauty.
27:4 你的境界在海中心，建造你的使你全然美丽。
Your borders are in the heart of the seas; Your builders have perfected your beauty.
27:5 他们用示尼珥的松树作你一切的板，从利巴嫩取香柏树为你作桅杆，
They have made all your planks of fir trees from Senir; They have taken a cedar from Lebanon to make a mast for you.
27:6 用巴珊的橡树作你的桨，用象牙镶嵌基提海岛的黄杨木为舱板。
They have made your oars of the oaks of Bashan; They have made your boards of cypresses inlaid with ivory from the coasts of Kittim.
27:7 你的篷帆是用埃及绣花细麻布作的，可以作你的旗号；你的凉棚是用以利沙岛屿的蓝色、紫色布作的。
Your sail was of fine embroidered linen from Egypt, to be your ensign; Your awning was of blue and purple material from the coasts of Elishah.
27:8 西顿和亚发的居民作你摇桨的；推罗阿，你中间有技巧的人作掌舵的。
The inhabitants of Sidon and Arvad were your rowers; Your skilled men, who were in you, O Tyre, were your helmsmen.
27:9 迦巴勒的老者和有技巧的人都在你中间作修补破缝的；一切泛海的船只和水手都在你中间交易商品。
The elders of Gebal and her skilled men were in you caulking your seams. All the ships of the sea and their sailors were within you to barter for your merchandise.
27:10 波斯人、路德人、弗人在你军队中作战士；他们在你中间悬挂盾牌和头盔，将你的尊荣赋与你。
The men of Persia and Lydia and Put were in your army as your men of war. They hung shields and helmets on you; they endowed you with your splendor.
27:11 亚发人和赫勒克人都在你四围的墙上，你的望楼也有勇士；他们在你四围的墙上悬挂盾牌，使你全然美丽。
The men of Arvad and Helek were on your walls all around, and valiant men were in your towers; they hung their shields on your walls all around; they perfected
your beauty.
27:12 他施人因你多有各类的财物，就作你的客商，用银、铁、锡、铅兑换你的货物。
Tarshish conducted business with you because of the abundance of all your wealth. For your wares they gave silver, iron, tin, and lead.
27:13 雅完人、土巴人、米设人都与你交易；他们用人口和铜器兑换你的商品。
Javan, Tubal, and Meshech, they were your traders; for your merchandise they gave human beings and vessels of brass.
27:14 从伯陀迦玛，人用马和战马并骡子兑换你的货物。
From Beth-togarmah they gave for your wares horses, steeds for riding, and mules.
27:15 底但人与你交易，许多海岛与你通商；他们拿象牙、乌木支付给你。
The people of Dedan were your traders; many coastlands conducted business on your behalf; they brought back as your payment ivory tusks and ebony.
27:16 亚兰人因你的产品甚多，就作你的客商；他们用红玉、紫色绣花布、细麻布、珊瑚、红宝石兑换你的货物。
Syria conducted business with you because of the abundance of your products; they gave for your wares emeralds, purple and embroidered cloth, fine linen,
coral, and rubies.
811
27:17 犹大和以色列地的人都与你交易；他们用米匿的麦子、饼、蜜、油、乳香兑换你的商品。
Judah and the land of Israel were your traders; they gave for your merchandise wheat of Minnith, resin, honey, oil, and balm.
27:18 大马色人因你的产品甚多，因你多有各类的财物，就拿黑本酒和白羊毛与你交易。
Damascus conducted business with you for the abundance of your products, because of the abundance of all wealth. They gave the wine of Helbon, and white
wool.
27:19 威但人和雅完人从乌萨来兑换你的货物，你的商品中有锻铁、桂皮、菖蒲。
Vedan and Javan traded for your wares from Uzal. Among your merchandise were wrought iron, cassia, and calamus.
27:20 底但人用骑坐用的高贵毯子与你交易。
Dedan was your trader in precious clothes for riding.
27:21 亚拉伯人和基达的一切首领都作你的客商，用羊羔、公绵羊、公山羊与你交易。
Arabia and all the princes of Kedar conducted business on your behalf; in lambs, rams, and goats; for these they conducted business with you.
27:22 示巴和拉玛的商人与你交易，他们用各类上好的香料、各类的宝石和金子兑换你的货物。
The traders of Sheba and Raamah were your traders; they gave for your wares the best of all spices, all kinds of precious stones, and gold.
27:23 哈兰人、干尼人、伊甸人、示巴的商人、亚述人和基抹人与你交易。
Haran and Canneh and Eden, the traders of Sheba, Asshur and Chilmad, were your traders.
27:24 这些商人以美好的布料，以成卷的蓝色绣花布，又以华丽的编织物装在箱子里，用绳牢牢捆着，与你交易。
These were your traders in the finest fabrics, in rolls of blue and embroidered cloth, and in chests of fine woven articles, tightly bound with cords, among your
merchandise.
27:25 他施的船只为你运载商品，你便在海中心，满载丰富，极其荣华。
The ships of Tarshish transported your merchandise for you; And you were replenished and made very glorious In the heart of the seas.
27:26 摇桨的已经把你摇到大水之处，东风在海中心将你打破。
Those who rowed you have brought you into great waters, But the east wind has shipwrecked you in the heart of the seas.
27:27 你的赀财、货物、商品、水手、掌舵的、修补破缝的、交易商品的、并你那里所有的战士、和你中间所有聚集的人，在你倾覆的日子必都沉在海中
心。
Your wealth, your wares, your merchandise, Your sailors, your pilots, Those who caulked your seams, The dealers in your merchandise, And all your men of war,
who are in you, With all your company who are in your midst, Will sink into the heart of the seas On the day of your fall.
27:28 你掌舵的呼号之声一发，郊野都必震动。
At the sound of the cry of your pilots The pasture lands will shake.
27:29 凡摇桨的和水手，并一切泛海掌舵的，都必下船登岸。
And all who handle the oar Will come down out of their ships; The sailors and all the pilots of the sea Will stand upon the land,
27:30 他们必为你放声痛哭，把尘土撒在头上，在灰中打滚；
And they will make their voice heard for you And cry out bitterly, And they will throw dust upon their heads; They will wallow in ashes.
27:31 又为你使头上光秃，用麻布束腰，魂中苦痛，为你哭泣，苦苦悲哀。
And they will make themselves bald for you And gird themselves with sackcloth, And they will weep for you in bitterness of soul With bitter mourning.
27:32 他们哀号的时候，为你举哀，为你哀哭，说，有何城如推罗？有何城如她在海中成为寂静的呢？
And in their wailing they will take up a lamentation for you And lament over you, saying, Who is like Tyre, Like her silenced in the midst of the sea?
27:33 你由海上运出货物，使许多国民充足；你以许多赀财、商品使地上的君王富足。
When your wares went out over the seas, You satisfied many peoples. With the abundance of your wealth and your merchandise You enriched the kings of the
earth.
27:34 你在深水中被海浪打破的时候，你的商品和所有聚集在你那里的人，就都沉下去了。
Now you are shipwrecked by the sea In deep water, Your merchandise and all your company Go down in your midst.
27:35 海岛所有的居民都为你惊奇；他们的君王都甚恐慌，面带愁容。
All the inhabitants of the coasts Are astonished at you, And their kings shudder excessively; Their countenance is troubled.
27:36 众民中的客商都向你发嘘声；你令人惊恐，永不再存留。
Those who conducted business with you among the peoples hiss at you; You have become a source of terror, And you will no longer exist.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 28 章
28:1 耶和华的话又临到我，说，
The word of Jehovah came again to me, saying,
28:2 人子阿，你对推罗的君王说，主耶和华如此说，因你心里高傲，说，我是神；我在海中心坐在神的位上。你虽然居心自比神，也不过是人，并不是神。
Son of man, say to the prince of Tyre, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because your heart is lifted up, and you have said, I am a god-I sit in the seat of God in the
midst of the seas; yet you are a man and not a god, although you set your heart as if it were the heart of God.
28:3 你比但以理更有智慧，什么秘密的事都不能向你隐藏；
Indeed you are wiser than Daniel; there is no secret hidden from you;
28:4 你靠自己的智慧聪明得了财富，积聚金银在库中。
By your wisdom and by your understanding you have made your wealth and accumulated gold and silver in your treasuries.
28:5 你靠自己的大智慧和贸易增添财富，却因财富心里高傲。
By your great wisdom and by your trading you have increased your wealth, but your heart has become lifted up because of your wealth.
28:6 所以主耶和华如此说，因你居心自比神，
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because you have set your heart as if it were the heart of God,
28:7 我必使外邦人，就是列国中最凶残的人临到你这里；他们必拔刀攻击你因智慧而有的美丽，污辱你的光彩。
Therefore I am about to bring strangers upon you, the most ruthless of the nations; and they will draw their swords against the beauty of your wisdom, and they
will defile your splendor.
28:8 他们必使你下坑；你必死在海中心，与被杀的人一样。
812
To the pit they will bring you down, and in the heart of the seas you will die the death of those who are slain.
28:9 在杀你的人面前，你还能说我是神么？其实你在杀害你的人手中，不过是人，并不是神。
Will you indeed say in the presence of the one who slays you, I am God? But you are a man and not a god in the hand of the one who wounds you.
28:10 你必死在外邦人手中，与未受割礼的人一样，因为我已经说了，这是主耶和华说的。
You will die the death of the uncircumcised by the hand of strangers, for I have spoken, declares the Lord Jehovah.
28:11 耶和华的话又临到我，说，
Moreover the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
28:12 人子阿，你要为推罗王举哀，对他说，主耶和华如此说，你完美全备，满有智慧，全然美丽。
Son of man, take up a lamentation for the king of Tyre, and say to him, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, O you who sealed up perfection, full of wisdom and perfect in
beauty,
28:13 你曾在伊甸神的园中，佩戴各样宝石，就是红宝石、黄玉、金钢石、黄璧玺、红玛瑙、碧玉、蓝宝石、红玉和绿宝石，带着黄金；又有精巧的鼓和
笛在你那里，都是在你受造之日预备齐全的。
You were in Eden, the garden of God. Every precious stone was your covering, sardius, topaz, diamond, chrysolite, onyx, jasper, sapphire, carbuncle, and
emerald, with gold. The workmanship of your tambourines and your pipes was prepared with you on the day that you were created.
28:14 你是那受膏遮掩约柜的基路伯；我将你安置在神的圣山上；你在发光如火的宝石中间往来。
You were the anointed cherub who covered the Ark; indeed I set you, so that you were upon the holy mountain of God; you walked up and down in the midst of
the stones of fire.
28:15 你从受造之日所行的都完全，直到在你中间察出不义。
You were perfect in your ways from the day that you were created, until unrighteousness was found in you.
28:16 因你贸易很多，你中间就被强暴的事充满，以致你犯了罪。所以我将你当作俗污之物，从神的山驱逐你。遮掩约柜的基路伯阿，我已将你从发光如
火的宝石中除灭。
By the abundance of your trading they filled your midst with violence, and you sinned. So I cast you out as profane from the mountain of God, and I destroyed you,
O covering cherub, from the midst of the stones of fire.
28:17 你因美丽心中高傲，又因荣光败坏智慧；我已将你摔倒在地，将你摆在君王面前，好叫他们目睹眼见。
Your heart was lifted up because of your beauty; you corrupted your wisdom by reason of your brightness. I cast you to the ground; I presented you before kings
that they may look at you.
28:18 你因罪孽众多，贸易不义，亵渎了你的圣所。故此，我使火从你中间发出，烧灭你，使你在所有观看的人眼前变为地上的炉灰。
By the multitude of your iniquities in the unrighteousness of your trading you have profaned your sanctuaries. Therefore I sent forth fire from your midst; it
consumed you, and I reduced you to ashes upon the earth in the sight of all those who look at you.
28:19 众民中凡认识你的，都必因你惊奇。你令人惊恐，永不再存留。
All who know you among the peoples are astonished at you. You have become a source of terror, and you will be no more forever.
28:20 耶和华的话临到我，说，
And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
28:21 人子阿，你要面向西顿，说预言攻击她，
Son of man, set your face toward Sidon, and prophesy against it,
28:22 说，主耶和华如此说，西顿哪，我与你为敌，我必在你中间得荣耀。我在她中间施行审判，显为圣别的时候，人就知道我是耶和华。
And say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Indeed I am against you, O Sidon, and I will be glorified in your midst. And they will know that I am Jehovah when I have
executed judgments in her, and I am sanctified in her.
28:23 我必使瘟疫进入西顿，使血流在她街上；被杀的必在其中仆倒，四围有刀剑临到她，人就知道我是耶和华。
And I will send pestilence into her and blood into her streets, and the wounded will fall in her midst with the sword against her from all around, and they will
know that I am Jehovah.
28:24 四围轻侮以色列家的人，必不再向他们作刺人的荆棘和使人痛苦的蒺藜，人就知道我是主耶和华。
And there will no longer be a pricking briar or a painful thorn for the house of Israel, inflicted by any of those around them who despised them. And they will know
that I am the Lord Jehovah.
28:25 主耶和华如此说，我将以色列家从他们所分散到的万民中招聚回来，在列国的眼前，在他们身上显为圣别的时候，他们就在自己的地，就是我赐给
我仆人雅各之地，仍然居住。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, When I have gathered the house of Israel from the peoples among whom they are scattered and have been sanctified in them in the
sight of the nations, they will dwell in their own land which I gave to My servant Jacob.
28:26 他们要在这地上安然居住，盖造房屋，栽种葡萄园。我向四围轻侮他们的众人施行审判以后，他们必安然居住，并且知道我是耶和华他们的神。
And they will dwell securely in it, and they will build houses and plant vineyards. They will dwell securely when I have executed judgments on all those
surrounding them who despise them, and they will know that I am Jehovah their God.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 29 章
29:1 第十年十月十二日，耶和华的话临到我，说，
In the tenth year, in the tenth month, on the twelfth day of the month, the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
29:2 人子阿，你要面向埃及王法老，说预言攻击他和埃及全地。
Son of man, set your face against Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and prophesy against him and against all Egypt.
29:3 你要说，主耶和华如此说，埃及王法老阿，我与你这卧在自己尼罗河中的怪物为敌；你曾说，这尼罗河是我的，是我为自己造的。
Speak and say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Indeed I am against you, Pharaoh king of Egypt, The great monster that lies In the midst of his Nile streams, That said,
My Nile belongs to me; I even made it for myself.
29:4 但我耶和华必用钩子钩住你的腮颊，又使你尼罗河中的鱼贴住你的鳞甲；我必将你，并尼罗河中所有贴住你鳞甲的鱼，从尼罗河中拉上来。
But I will put hooks in your jaws, And I will cause the fish of your Nile streams to cling to your scales; And I will bring you up out of the midst of your Nile streams,
With all the fish of your Nile streams clinging to your scales.
29:5 我必将你，并尼罗河中所有的鱼，都抛在旷野。你必倒在田间，不被收殓，不被掩埋。我已将你给地上的野兽和空中的飞鸟作食物。
813
And I will cast you out into the wilderness, You and all the fish of your Nile streams. You will fall on the open field; You will not be brought together or gathered. To
the beasts of the earth And to the birds of the sky I have given you as food,
29:6 埃及一切的居民，因向以色列家成了芦苇的杖，就知道我是耶和华。
That all the inhabitants of Egypt may know that I am Jehovah, Because they have been a reed staff to the house of Israel.
29:7 他们用手抓住你，你就折断、撕伤了他们的肩；他们倚靠你，你就破裂、扭闪了他们的腰。
When they grasped you by your hand, You broke and tore all their shoulders; And when they leaned upon you, You shattered and made all their loins unsteady.
29:8 所以主耶和华如此说，我必使刀剑临到你，从你中间将人与牲畜剪除。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, I am about to bring a sword upon you, and I will cut off from you man and beast.
29:9 埃及地必荒凉旷废，他们就知道我是耶和华。因为法老曾说，尼罗河是我的，是我所造的，
And the land of Egypt will be a desolation and a waste, and they will know that I am Jehovah. Because he has said, The Nile is mine, and I made it;
29:10 所以我必与你并你的尼罗河为敌，使埃及地，从密夺到色弗尼，直到古实边界，全然荒凉旷废。
Therefore, indeed, I am against you and your Nile streams, and I will make the land of Egypt an utter waste and desolation, from Migdol to Syene, even to the
border with Ethiopia.
29:11 人的脚必不经过那里，兽的蹄也不经过那里；四十年之久必无人居住。
No human foot will pass through it, not even an animal foot will pass through it; it will not be inhabited forty years.
29:12 我必使埃及地荒凉，列在荒凉的国中，埃及的城必变为荒凉，列在荒废的城之中，共四十年之久。我必将埃及人四散在列国，分散在列邦。
And I will make the land of Egypt a desolation in the midst of desolate countries, and her cities will be the most desolate among ruined cities for forty years. And I
will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them among the countries.
29:13 因为主耶和华如此说，过了四十年，我必将埃及人从他们分散到的各民中招聚回来。
For thus says the Lord Jehovah, At the end of forty years I will gather the Egyptians from among the peoples where they have been scattered,
29:14 我必叫埃及被掳的人回来，使他们归回巴忒罗地，就是他们根源之地；他们在那里必成为低微的国，
And I will turn the captivity of Egypt and bring them back to the land of Pathros, into the land of their origin. And there they will be a lowly kingdom.
29:15 必为列国中最低微的，必不再高抬自己于列国之上；我必使他们减少，以致不再辖制列国。
It will be the lowliest of the kingdoms. It will no longer lift itself up above the nations, and I will diminish them so that they will no longer rule the nations.
29:16 埃及必不再作以色列家所倚靠的；以色列家转去跟随埃及人的时候，便想起自己的罪孽。他们就知道我是主耶和华。
And it will no longer be the confidence of the house of Israel, but rather a reminder of iniquity when they turned toward them. Then they will know that I am the
Lord Jehovah.
29:17 第二十七年正月初一日，耶和华的话临到我，说，
And in the twenty-seventh year, in the first month, on the first day of the month, the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
29:18 人子阿，巴比伦王尼布甲尼撒驱使他的军兵大大效劳，攻打推罗，以致头都光秃，肩都磨破；然而他和他的军兵为攻打推罗所花费的劳力，并没有
从那里得什么报酬。
Son of man, Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon forced his army into hard labor against Tyre. Every head was made bald and every shoulder rubbed raw. Yet
neither he nor his army had wages from Tyre for the labor that he had expended against it.
29:19 所以主耶和华如此说，看哪，我必将埃及地赐给巴比伦王尼布甲尼撒；他必掳掠埃及的群众，抢其中的财为掳物，夺其中的货为掠物，这就可以作
他军兵的报酬。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, I am about to give the land of Egypt to Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon, and he will carry off her multitude and take her
spoil and seize her plunder, and it will be the wages for his army.
29:20 我将埃及地赐给他，酬他所 的劳，因王与军兵是为我工作的；这是主耶和华说的。
I have given him the land of Egypt as his recompense for which he labored, because they worked for Me, declares the Lord Jehovah.
29:21 当那日，我必使以色列家的角发生，又必使你以西结在他们中间得以开口；他们就知道我是耶和华。
In that day I will cause a horn to sprout for the house of Israel, and I will give you an open mouth in their midst. Then they will know that I am Jehovah.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 30 章
30:1 耶和华的话又临到我，说，
The word of Jehovah came to me again, saying,
30:2 人子阿，你要发预言说，主耶和华如此说，哀哉这日！你们应当哭号。
Son of man, prophesy and say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Howl! Alas for the day!
30:3 因为日子临近，耶和华的日子临近；那将是密云之日，列国受罚之期。
For the day has drawn near, even the day of Jehovah has drawn near; It will be a day of clouds, a time of doom for the nations.
30:4 必有刀剑临到埃及；在埃及被杀之人仆倒的时候，古实人就有痛苦；埃及的众民必被掳掠，根基必被拆毁。
And a sword will come upon Egypt, And anguish will be in Ethiopia, When the slain will fall in Egypt; And they will take away her multitude, And her foundations
will be broken down.
30:5 古实人、弗人、路德人、所有亚拉伯人、吕彼亚人、以及同盟之地的人，都要与埃及人一同倒在刀下。
Ethiopia, Put, Lud, all Arabia, Libya, and the children of the land of the covenant will fall by the sword with them.
30:6 耶和华如此说，扶助埃及的必倾倒，埃及因其力量而有的骄傲必降低微；其中的人民，从密夺到色弗尼，必倒在刀下；这是主耶和华说的。
Thus says Jehovah, Those who support Egypt will fall, And the pride of her strength will come down; They will fall by the sword within her, From Migdol to Syene,
Declares the Lord Jehovah.
30:7 埃及地必成为荒凉，列在荒凉的国中，埃及的城必列在荒废的城中。
And they will be desolate in the midst of desolate countries, and her cities will be the most desolate among ruined cities.
30:8 我使火在埃及着起，帮助埃及的都被灭绝；那时，他们就知道我是耶和华。
And they will know that I am Jehovah, when I have set fire to Egypt and all her helpers are destroyed.
30:9 到那日，必有使者坐船，从我面前出去，使安逸无虑的古实人惊惧；在埃及遭灾的日子，必有痛苦临到他们。看哪，这事临近了。
In that day messengers will go forth from before Me in ships to make the confident Ethiopians afraid, and there will be anguish among them just as on the day of
Egypt. For indeed it comes.
814
30:10 主耶和华如此说，我必藉巴比伦王尼布甲尼撒的手，除灭埃及众人。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, I will also make the multitude of Egypt to cease by the hand of Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon.
30:11 他和随从他的人，就是列国中最凶残的，必被带进来毁灭这地；他们必拔刀攻击埃及，使那地满了被杀的人。
He and his people with him, the most ruthless of the nations, will be brought in to destroy the land, and they will draw their swords against Egypt and fill the land
with the slain.
30:12 我必使尼罗河干涸，将这地卖在恶人的手中；我必藉外人的手，使这地和其中所有的变为凄凉。这是我耶和华说的。
And I will make the Nile streams dry and sell the land into the hands of evil men, and I will make the land and all that is in it desolate by the hand of strangers. I,
Jehovah, have spoken.
30:13 主耶和华如此说，我必毁灭偶像，从挪弗除灭神像；必不再有首领从埃及地兴起。我要使惧怕临到埃及地。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, I will also destroy the idols, and I will make an end of the images from Memphis; and a prince from the land of Egypt will never again
arise; and I will put fear into the land of Egypt.
30:14 我必使巴忒罗荒凉，使火在琐安 起，向挪施行审判。
And I will make Pathros desolate and set fire to Zoan and execute judgments on Thebes.
30:15 我必将我的忿怒倾倒在训，就是埃及的保障上，并要剪除挪的众人。
And I will pour out My wrath upon Sin, the stronghold of Egypt; and I will cut off the multitude in Thebes.
30:16 我必使火在埃及着起；训必痛苦翻绞；挪必被攻破；挪弗每日都见仇敌。
And I will set fire to Egypt; Sin will writhe in anguish, and Thebes will be breached, and Memphis will have adversaries daily.
30:17 安和比伯实的少年人必倒在刀下；这些城的人必被掳去。
The young men of On and Pi-beseth will fall by the sword, and these cities will go into captivity.
30:18 我在答比匿折断埃及的诸轭，使她因自己力量而有的骄傲在其中止息；那时，日光必退去；至于这城，必有密云遮蔽，其中的女子必被掳去。
At Tahpanhes also the day will withdraw itself, when I will break there the yokes of Egypt, and the pride of her strength will cease in her; she will be covered with
a cloud, and her daughters will go into captivity.
30:19 我必这样向埃及施行审判，他们就知道我是耶和华。
Thus I will execute judgments upon Egypt, and they will know that I am Jehovah.
30:20 第十一年正月初七日，耶和华的话临到我，说，
And in the eleventh year, in the first month, on the seventh day of the month, the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
30:21 人子阿，我已打折埃及王法老的膀臂；没有敷药，也没有用布缠好，使他有力持刀。
Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt; and indeed it has not been bound to apply healing medicines, nor firmly bandaged to bind it to
be strong enough to grasp a sword.
30:22 所以主耶和华如此说，我与埃及王法老为敌，必将他有力的膀臂和已打折的膀臂全行打断，使刀从他手中坠落。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Indeed I am against Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and I will break both his arms, the strong arm and the one that was broken;
and I will cause the sword to fall out of his hand.
30:23 我必将埃及人四散在列国，分散在列邦。
And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them among the countries.
30:24 我必使巴比伦王的膀臂有力，将我的刀交在他手中；却要打断法老的膀臂，他就在巴比伦王面前唉哼，如同受死伤的人一样。
And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon and put My sword in his hand, but I will break the arms of Pharaoh, and he will groan before him with the
groanings of one who is being slain.
30:25 我必使巴比伦王的膀臂有力，法老的膀臂却要下垂；我将我的刀交在巴比伦王手中，他必举刀攻击埃及地，他们就知道我是耶和华。
And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and the arms of Pharaoh will fall; and they will know that I am Jehovah, when I put My sword into the hand
of the king of Babylon, and he will stretch it out over the land of Egypt.
30:26 我必将埃及人四散在列国，分散在列邦；他们就知道我是耶和华。
And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them among the countries. Then they will know that I am Jehovah.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 31 章
31:1 第十一年三月初一日，耶和华的话临到我，说，
And in the eleventh year, in the third month, on the first day of the month, the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
31:2 人子阿，你要向埃及王法老和他的众民说，论你的伟大，谁能与你相比呢？
Son of man, say to Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and to his multitude: Whom are you like in your greatness?
31:3 亚述曾是利巴嫩中的香柏树，枝条荣美，影密如林，极其高大，树梢立于茂密枝叶中。
Indeed Assyria was a cedar in Lebanon With beautiful branches and forest shade And great height, And its top shoots were among the thick boughs.
31:4 众水使它长大，深处的泉水使它长高；所栽之地有江河围流，汊出的水道延到田野诸树。
Waters nourished it, The deep springs made it grow; Its rivers flowed around The place it was planted; And it flowed out its channels To all the trees of the field.
31:5 所以它高大超过田野诸树；发旺的时候，因得众水供应，所以枝子繁多，枝条长长。
Therefore its height was exalted Above all the trees of the field, And its boughs were multiplied, And its branches lengthened, Because of abundant waters, as it
spread.
31:6 空中的飞鸟都在枝子上搭窝，田野的走兽都在枝条下生子，所有大国的人民都在它荫下居住。
All the birds of the sky Made their nests in its boughs, And all the beasts of the field Bore their young under its branches, And in its shade All great nations dwelt.
31:7 树大枝长，成为荣美，因为根在众水之旁。
Thus it was beautiful in its greatness, In the length of its branches; For its roots were beside abundant waters.
31:8 神园中的香柏树不能遮蔽它；松树比不上它的枝子，枫树也不及它的枝条；神园中的树没有一棵能比得上它的美丽。
Cedars in the garden of God could not hide it; Cypresses could not compare to its boughs, And plane trees could not equal its branches; No tree in the garden of
God could compare to it in its beauty.
31:9 我使它的枝条繁多，成为荣美，以致在神的园中，伊甸的树都嫉妒它。
I made it beautiful By the multitude of its branches, So that all the trees of Eden, Which were in the garden of God, envied it.
815
31:10 所以主耶和华如此说，因它树身高大，树梢立于茂密枝叶中，心高气傲，
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because you are exalted in height-it set its top shoots among the thick boughs, and its heart is lifted up in its height -
31:11 我必将它交在列国中有威势的人手中；那人必定对付它。我已照它的恶，驱逐了它。
Therefore I will deliver it into the hands of the mighty one of the nations; he will surely deal with it. I have driven it out according to its wickedness.
31:12 外人，就是列邦中最凶残的，将它砍断弃于山上，它的枝条落在一切山谷中，它的枝子折断，落在地的一切深谷旁；地上的众民已经离开它的荫下，
丢弃了它。
And strangers, the most ruthless of the nations, have cut it down and left it on the mountains, and its branches have fallen into all the valleys, and its boughs lie
broken by all the ravines of the land; and all the peoples of the earth have abandoned its shade and left it.
31:13 空中的飞鸟都要宿在这倾倒的树上，田野的走兽都要来到它的枝条上，
Upon its fallen trunk All the birds of the sky will dwell, And upon its branches All the beasts of the field will be.
31:14 好使水旁的诸树不因高大而自高，也不将树梢立于茂密枝叶中，并且那些得水滋润的树木，都不得高大自立；因为它们都被交与死亡，到地的深处，
到那些下坑的世人中去了。
This is so that none of the well-watered trees will exalt themselves in their height by setting their top shoots among the thick boughs, and none of the well-
watered trees will stand next to them in their height; for all of them have been delivered to death, to the lowest parts of the earth among the children of men who
descend into the pit.
31:15 主耶和华如此说，它下阴间的那日，我便使人悲哀；我为它遮盖深处的泉源，使江河受阻，大水停流；我也使利巴嫩为它悲伤，田野的诸树都因它
发昏。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, On the day it descended to Sheol I caused a mourning; I covered the deep springs for it, and I restrained its rivers, and the great
waters were shut up. I also made Lebanon mourn for it, and all the trees of the field wilted on account of it.
31:16 我将它扔到阴间，与下坑的人一同下去；那时，列国听见它坠落的响声就都震动。伊甸的一切树，就是利巴嫩得水滋润、最佳最美的树，都在地的
最低下之处受了安慰。
I made the nations quake at the sound of its fall when I cast it down to Sheol with those who descend into the pit. And all the trees of Eden, the choice and best of
Lebanon, all who drink water, were comforted in the lowest parts of the earth.
31:17 它们也与它同下阴间，到被刀杀的人那里；它们曾作它的膀臂，在列国中居住在它的荫下。
They also descended with it into Sheol to those who were slain by the sword; indeed to those who were its arm, who dwelt under its shade among the nations.
31:18 论荣耀和伟大，在伊甸的诸树中，谁能与你相比呢？然而你要与伊甸的诸树一同下到地的最低下之处，在未受割礼的人中，与被刀杀的人一同躺卧。
法老和他的群众乃是如此；这是主耶和华说的。
Which among the trees of Eden then are you like in glory and in greatness? Yet you will be brought down with the trees of Eden to the lowest parts of the earth;
you will lie among the uncircumcised, with those who were slain by the sword. This is Pharaoh and all his multitude, declares the Lord Jehovah.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 32 章
32:1 第十二年十二月初一日，耶和华的话临到我，说，
And in the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, on the first day of the month, the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
32:2 人子阿，你要为埃及王法老举哀，对他说，从前你在列国中，如同少壮狮子，现在你却像海中的怪物；你冲出江河，用爪搅动诸水，使江河浑浊。
Son of man, take up a lamentation over Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and say to him, You likened yourself to a lion of the nations, Yet you are like a monster in the
seas; And you gushed forth with your rivers And muddied the waters with your feet And fouled their rivers.
32:3 主耶和华如此说，我必用聚集的众民，将我的网撒在你身上，用我的网把你拉上来。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, I will spread My net upon you With a company of many peoples, And they will bring you up in My dragnet.
32:4 我必将你丢在地上，抛在田野，使空中的飞鸟都栖息在你身上，使遍地的野兽吃你得饱。
And I will abandon you upon the land; I will cast you out into the open field, And I will cause all the birds of the sky to settle upon you And satisfy the beasts of the
whole earth with you.
32:5 我必将你的肉扔在山间，用你的尸首填满山谷。
And I will lay your flesh upon the mountains And fill the valleys with your corpse.
32:6 我又必用你流出的血浇灌这地，直到山上，连深谷都必填满了。
I will also drench the land with your outpoured blood As far as the mountains, And the ravines will be full of you.
32:7 我将你扑灭的时候，要把天遮蔽，使天上众星昏暗，以密云遮掩太阳，月亮也不放光。
And when I extinguish you, I will cover the heavens and darken their stars; I will cover the sun with a cloud, And the moon will not give its light.
32:8 我必使天上明亮的光体都在你以上变为昏暗，使你的地上黑暗；这是主耶和华说的。
All the bright lights of heaven I will darken over you And send darkness upon your land, Declares the Lord Jehovah.
32:9 我使你败亡的风声传到列国中，到你所不认识的列邦；那时，我必使多民的心愁烦。
I will also bring anguish to the hearts of many peoples, when I bring news of your destruction among the nations, into the countries which you have not known.
32:10 我在多民和其君王面前向你抡我的刀，多民就必因你惊奇，其君王也必因你极其恐慌；在你仆倒的日子，他们各人必为自己的性命时刻战兢。
Yes, I will astonish many peoples because of you, and their kings will shudder excessively over you, when I brandish My sword before them; they will also tremble
continually, everyone for his own life, on the day of your fall.
32:11 因为主耶和华如此说，巴比伦王的刀必临到你。
For thus says the Lord Jehovah, The king of Babylon's sword will come upon you.
32:12 我必藉勇士的刀使你的众民仆倒，这勇士都是列国中凶残的；他们必使埃及的骄傲归于无有，埃及的众民必被灭绝。
By the swords of the mighty, All of them the ruthless of the nations, I will cause your multitude to fall; And they will devastate the pride of Egypt, And all its
multitude will be destroyed.
32:13 我必从埃及多水旁除灭所有的走兽；人脚和兽蹄必不再搅浑这水。
I will also destroy all its beasts From beside abundant waters; No longer will human feet muddy them, Nor will the hoofs of beasts muddy them.
32:14 那时，我必使埃及众水澄清，江河像油缓流；这是主耶和华说的。
Then I will make their waters clear And their rivers flow like oil, declares the Lord Jehovah.
32:15 我使埃及地变为荒废，这地就缺少从前所充满的而凄凉，我又击杀其中一切的居民；那时，他们就知道我是耶和华。
816
When I make the land of Egypt desolate, A land destitute of what filled it, When I strike all its inhabitants, They will know that I am Jehovah.
32:16 人必用这哀歌去哀哭。列国的女子必用这哀歌去哀哭；她们必用这哀歌，为埃及和她的众民哀哭，这是主耶和华说的。
This is the lamentation with which they will lament. The daughters of the nations will lament with it; over Egypt and over all her multitude they will lament with it,
declares the Lord Jehovah.
32:17 第十二年某月十五日，耶和华的话临到我，说，
In the twelfth year, on the fifteenth day of the month, the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
32:18 人子阿，你要为埃及众民哀号，又要将埃及和强国的女子，扔到地的最低下之处，与下坑的人在一起。
Son of man, wail for the multitude of Egypt, and cast them down, her and the daughters of mighty nations, to the lowest parts of the earth, with those who
descend to the pit.
32:19 你埃及的美丽胜过谁呢？你下去与未受割礼的人一同躺卧罢。
Whom do you surpass in beauty? Go down, and be laid with the uncircumcised.
32:20 他们必在被刀杀的人中仆倒。她被交给刀剑；要把她和她的众民拉去。
They will fall in the midst of those slain by the sword; she is delivered to the sword. Drag her away with all her multitudes.
32:21 勇士中的强者要从阴间对埃及王和帮助他的说话；他们是未受割礼被刀杀的人，已经下去，躺卧不动。
The strong among the mighty will speak to him and his allies from the midst of Sheol; they have gone down; they lie still, the uncircumcised, slain by the sword.
32:22 亚述和她聚集的民都在那里，她民的坟墓在她四围。他们都是被杀倒在刀下的，
Assyria and all her company are there with their graves all around her. All of them are slain, fallen by the sword,
32:23 他们的坟墓设于坑中极深之处；她聚集的民在她坟墓的四围，都是被杀倒在刀下的；他们曾在活人之地使人惊恐。
Whose graves are set in the uttermost parts of the pit, and her company is all around her grave; all of them slain, fallen by the sword, who had struck terror in the
land of the living.
32:24 以拦也在那里，她的众民在她坟墓的四围，都是被杀倒在刀下、未受割礼而下到地最低下之处的；他们曾在活人之地使人惊恐，并且与下坑的人一
同担当羞辱。
Elam and all her multitude are there, all around her grave; all of them slain, fallen by the sword, who have descended uncircumcised into the lowest parts of the
earth, who had struck their terror in the land of the living and bore their disgrace with those who descend to the pit.
32:25 人给她和她的众民在被杀的人中设立床榻；她群众的坟墓在她四围，他们都是未受割礼被刀杀的；他们曾在活人之地使人惊恐，并且与下坑的人一
同担当羞辱。他们已经放在被杀的人中。
They have made her a bed in the midst of the slain with all her multitude; their graves are all around her; all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword. Although
their terror was struck in the land of the living, they now bear their disgrace with those who descend to the pit. They are placed among the slain.
32:26 米设、土巴、和她们的群众都在那里；她们众民的坟墓在她们四围，他们都是未受割礼被刀杀的；他们虽然曾在活人之地使人惊恐，
Meshech, Tubal, and all their multitude are there; their graves are all around them; all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword. Although they had struck their
terror in the land of the living,
32:27 却不得与那未受割礼仆倒的勇士一同躺卧；这些勇士带着兵器下阴间，头枕刀剑，骨头上有自己的罪孽；他们曾在活人之地使勇士惊恐。
They will not lie with the mighty uncircumcised who fell, who descended to Sheol with their weapons of war and laid their swords under their heads and their
iniquities upon their bones, even though they were the terror of the mighty in the land of the living.
32:28 法老阿，你必在未受割礼的人中破败，与那些被刀杀的人一同躺卧。
But you will be broken in the midst of the uncircumcised and lie with those slain by the sword.
32:29 以东在那里，她君王和一切首领虽然有勇力，还是放在被刀杀的人中；他们必与未受割礼的和下坑的人一同躺卧。
Edom is there, her kings and all her princes, who in their might are placed with those slain by the sword; they will lie with the uncircumcised and with those who
descend to the pit.
32:30 在那里有北方的众首领和一切西顿人，都与被杀的人一同下去；他们虽然仗 勇力使人惊恐，还是蒙羞。他们未受割礼，和被刀杀的一同躺卧，与
下坑的人一同担当羞辱。
The princes of the north, all of them, and all the Sidonians are there, who descended with the slain; they are put to shame in spite of the terror they struck by their
might. They also lie uncircumcised with those slain by the sword and bear their shame with those who descend to the pit.
32:31 法老看见他们，便为他被刀杀的众民，就是法老自己和他的全军，得了安慰；这是主耶和华说的。
Pharaoh will see them and be comforted over all his multitude, Pharaoh and all his army, slain by the sword, declares the Lord Jehovah.
32:32 我任凭法老在活人之地使人惊恐，法老和他的众民必放在未受割礼的人中，与被刀杀的人在一起，这是主耶和华说的。
For I have put his terror in the land of the living, and he will be laid in the midst of the uncircumcised, with those slain by the sword, Pharaoh and all his multitude,
declares the Lord Jehovah.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 33 章
33:1 耶和华的话临到我，说，
Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
33:2 人子阿，你要告诉本族的子民说，我若使刀剑临到那一地，那一地的民从他们中间选取一人，立他为守望的，
Son of man, speak to the children of your people, and say to them, Whenever I bring the sword upon a land and the people of the land take a man from their
midst and set him up as their watchman,
33:3 他见刀剑临到那地，就吹角警戒人民，
And when he sees the sword come upon the land, he blows the trumpet and warns the people;
33:4 凡听见角声不受警戒的，刀剑若来除灭了他，流他血的罪就必归到他自己的头上。
Then whoever hears the sound of the trumpet and ignores the warning, if the sword comes and takes him away, his blood will be on his own head.
33:5 他听见角声，不受警戒，流他血的罪必归到他自己的身上；他若受警戒，便是救了自己的性命。
He heard the sound of the trumpet and ignored the warning; his own blood will be on him; whereas if he had taken warning, he would have delivered his soul.
33:6 倘若守望的人见刀剑临到，却不吹角，以致人民未受警戒，刀剑来除灭了他们中间的一个人，他虽然因自己的罪孽被除灭，我却要从守望的人手中追
讨流他血的罪。
817
But if the watchman sees the sword come and does not blow the trumpet and the people are not warned and the sword comes and takes someone away from
them, he is taken away in his iniquity, but his blood I will require at the watchman's hand.
33:7 人子阿，我立了你作以色列家守望的人，你要听我口中的话，替我警戒他们。
It is you, O son of man, whom I have appointed as a watchman to the house of Israel; therefore when you hear the word from My mouth, give them warning
from Me.
33:8 我何时指着恶人说，恶人哪，你必要死；你若不发言警戒恶人，使他离开他的行径，那恶人必因自己的罪孽而死，我却要从你手中追讨流他血的罪。
When I say to the wicked, O wicked man, you will surely die, and you do not speak to warn the wicked from his way, that wicked man will die in his iniquity, but
his blood I will require at your hand.
33:9 倘若你警戒恶人转离他的行径，他仍不转离，他必因自己的罪孽而死，你却救了自己的性命。
Yet if you warn the wicked man of his way to turn from it and he does not turn from his way, he will die in his iniquity, and you have delivered your soul.
33:10 人子阿，你要对以色列家说，你们这样说，我们的过犯和我们的罪在我们身上，我们必因此消灭，怎能存活呢？
And you, son of man, say to the house of Israel, This is what you speak, saying, Our transgressions and our sins are upon us, and because of them we are
wasting away. How then can we live?
33:11 你要对他们说，主耶和华说，我指着我的生存起誓，我断不喜悦恶人死亡，惟喜悦恶人转离他的行径而活。以色列家阿，你们转离，转离邪恶的行
径罢，何必死亡呢？
Say to them, As I live, declares the Lord Jehovah, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turns away from his way and lives. Turn away,
turn away from your evil ways; for why will you die, O house of Israel?
33:12 人子阿，你要对本族的子民说，义人的义，在他犯罪之日不能救他；至于恶人的恶，在他转离恶行之日也不能使他跌倒。义人在犯罪之日也不能因
他的义存活。
And you, son of man, say to the children of your people, The righteousness of the righteous will not deliver him on the day of his transgression, and the
wickedness of the wicked will not stumble him on the day he turns away from his wickedness. The righteous cannot be kept alive just because of his
righteousness on the day he sins.
33:13 我论到义人说，他必定存活；但他若倚靠他的义而行罪孽，他所行的义都不被记念。论到他所作的罪孽，他必因此死亡。
When I say concerning the righteous man, He will surely live, but if he has confidence in his righteousness and practices iniquity, none of his righteous deeds will
be remembered. As for his iniquity that he practiced, in it he will die.
33:14 再者，我对恶人说，你必定死亡；但他若转离他的罪，行公正与公义的事：
Again, when I say to the wicked man, You will surely die, but if he turns away from his sin and practices justice and righ- teousness -
33:15 他若归还人的抵押物，偿还所抢夺的，遵行生命的律例，不行罪孽，他就必定存活，不至死亡。
If the wicked man restores a pledge, makes restitution for what he took in robbery, walks in the statutes of life, practicing no iniquity-he will surely live; he will not
die.
33:16 他所犯的一切罪必不被记念；他行了公正与公义的事，必定存活。
None of his sins that he has committed will be remembered against him; he has practiced justice and righteousness; he will surely live.
33:17 你本族的子民还说，主的道路不公平；其实是他们自己的道路不公平。
Yet the children of your people say, The way of the Lord is not fair; but as for them, their way is not fair.
33:18 义人转离他的义而行罪孽，就必因此死亡。
When a righteous man turns from his righteousness and practices iniquity, he will even die in it.
33:19 恶人转离他的恶，行公正与公义的事，就必因此存活。
And when a wicked man turns from his wickedness and practices justice and righteousness, he will live by them.
33:20 你们还说，主的道路不公平。以色列家阿，我必按你们各人所行的审判你们。
Yet you say, The way of the Lord is not fair. O house of Israel, I will judge every one of you according to his ways.
33:21 我们被掳之后第十二年十月初五日，有人从耶路撒冷逃出，来到我这里，说，城已攻破。
And in the twelfth year of our captivity, in the tenth month, on the fifth day of the month, one who had escaped from Jerusalem came to me, saying, The city has
been struck down.
33:22 逃出的人来到的前一日晚上，耶和华的手降在我身上，祂开了我的口。到了早晨，那人来到我这里；我的口开了，就不再缄默。
Now the hand of Jehovah had come upon me in the evening, before the coming of the one who had escaped; and He had opened my mouth before he came to
me in the morning. Therefore my mouth was opened, and I was no longer dumb.
33:23 耶和华的话临到我，说，
Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
33:24 人子阿，住在以色列地那些荒废之处的人说，亚伯拉罕独自一人，就得了这地为业；我们人数众多，这地必是给了我们为业的。
Son of man, the inhabitants of those ruined places in the land of Israel speak, saying, Abraham was one person, and he was given the land as an inheritance;
but we are many; surely the land has been given to us for an inheritance.
33:25 所以你要对他们说，主耶和华如此说，你们吃带血的肉，举目仰望你们的偶像，并且杀人流血，你们还能得这地为业么？
Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, You eat meat with the blood and lift up your eyes to your idols and shed blood. Will you indeed possess the
land?
33:26 你们倚仗自己的刀剑，行可憎的事，人人玷污邻舍的妻子，你们还能得这地为业么？
You depend on your sword; you have committed abominations, and each of you defiles his neighbor's wife. Will you indeed possess the land?
33:27 你要对他们这样说，主耶和华如此说，我指着我的生存起誓，在荒废之处的，必倒在刀下；在田野间的，我必交给野兽吞吃；在保障和洞里的，必
遭瘟疫而死。
Thus will you say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, As I live, surely those who are in the ruined places will fall by the sword, and he who is in the open field I
will give to the beasts to be devoured, and those who are in the strongholds and in the caves will die of pestilence.
33:28 我必使这地荒凉旷废，她因自己力量而有的骄傲也必止息，以色列的山都必荒凉，无人经过。
And I will make the land a desolation and a waste, and the pride of her strength will cease, and the mountains of Israel will be desolate without anyone passing
through.
33:29 我因他们所行一切可憎的事，使这地荒凉旷废；那时，他们就知道我是耶和华。
Then will they know that I am Jehovah, when I have made the land a desolation and a waste, because of all their abominations which they have committed.
33:30 至于你，人子阿，你本族的子民在墙垣旁边、在房屋门口谈论你，各人对弟兄彼此说，来罢，听听有什么话从耶和华而出。
818
And as for you, son of man, the children of your people talk about you by the walls and in the entrances of the houses and speak to one another, each to his
brother, saying, Come now, and hear what is the word that comes forth from Jehovah.
33:31 他们来到你这里如同民来聚会，坐在你面前仿佛是我的民，他们听你的话却不去行；因为他们用口多显爱情，他们的心却追随财利。
And they come to you just as people come, and they sit before you as My people, and they hear your words but do not do them; for with their mouth they show
much love, but their heart goes after their gain.
33:32 你对于他们，如同善于奏乐、声音幽雅之人所唱的情歌；他们听你的话却不去行。
And indeed you are to them like a very lovely song of one with a pleasant voice, who can play an instrument well; for they hear your words but do not do them.
33:33 看哪，所说的快要临到；临到了，他们就知道在他们中间有了申言者。
And when this comes about-indeed it comes-then they will know that a prophet has been among them.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 34 章
34:1 耶和华的话临到我，说，
Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
34:2 人子阿，你要向以色列的牧人说预言，攻击他们，说，主耶和华如此说，以色列的牧人有祸了！他们只知牧养自己。牧人岂不当牧养群羊么？
Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel, prophesy and say to them, to the shepherds, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Woe to the shepherds of Israel
who feed themselves! Should not the shepherds feed the sheep?
34:3 你们吃脂油、穿羊毛、宰肥壮的，却不牧养群羊。
You eat the fat, and you clothe yourselves with the wool; you slaughter the fatlings, but you do not feed the sheep.
34:4 瘦弱的，你们没有养壮；有病的，你们没有医治；受伤的，你们没有缠裹；被逐的，你们没有领回；迷失的，你们没有寻找；但用强力严严的辖制。
The weak you have not strengthened, and the sick one you have not healed, and the broken one you have not bound up, and the one that was driven away you
have not brought back, and the lost one you have not sought; but with strength and rigor you have ruled over them.
34:5 因无牧人，羊就分散；既分散，便作了田野一切走兽的食物。
And they were scattered without a shepherd, and they became food to all the beasts of the field and were scattered.
34:6 我的羊在众山间，在各高冈上流离，在全地上分散，无人去寻，无人去找。
My sheep wandered through all the mountains and upon every high hill. Indeed My sheep were scattered over all the surface of the earth; not even one
searched for or sought after them.
34:7 所以，你们这些牧人哪，要听耶和华的话。
Therefore, O shepherds, hear the word of Jehovah.
34:8 主耶和华说，我指着我的生存起誓，我的羊因无牧人就成为掠物，也作了田野一切走兽的食物；我的牧人不寻找我的羊，这些牧人只知牧养自己，并
不牧养我的羊；
As I live, declares the Lord Jehovah, surely inasmuch as My sheep became prey, and My sheep became food to all the beasts of the field because there was no
shepherd, nor did My shepherds search for My sheep, but the shepherds fed themselves and did not feed My sheep;
34:9 所以你们这些牧人哪，要听耶和华的话：
Therefore, O shepherds, hear the word of Jehovah:
34:10 主耶和华如此说，我必与牧人为敌，必从他们手中追讨我的羊，使他们不再牧放群羊，牧人也不再牧养自己；我必救我的羊脱离他们的口，不再作
他们的食物。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Indeed I am against the shepherds, and I will require My sheep at their hand and stop them from feeding the sheep, and the
shepherds will no longer feed themselves; but I will deliver My sheep from their mouth so that they may not be food for them.
34:11 因为主耶和华如此说，我必亲自寻找我的羊，将他们寻见。
For thus says the Lord Jehovah, I Myself, even I, will search for My sheep and seek them out.
34:12 牧人在羊群四散的日子怎样寻找他的羊，我必照样寻找我的羊；这些羊在密云黑暗的日子四散到各处，我必把他们从那里救回来。
As a shepherd seeks out his flock on the day when he is among his sheep which are scattered, so I will seek out My sheep; and I will deliver them from all the
places where they have been scattered on a day of clouds and thick darkness.
34:13 我必把他们从万民中领出来，从各国聚集他们，引导他们归回自己的地，也必在以色列山上，一切溪水旁边，在那地一切可居之处牧养他们。
And I will bring them out from the peoples and gather them from the countries and bring them into their own land, and I will feed them upon the mountains of
Israel by the streams and in all the inhabited places of the land.
34:14 我必在美好的草场牧养他们，他们的住处必在以色列高处的山上；他们必在佳美的住处躺卧，也在以色列山肥美的草场吃草。
I will feed them with good pasture, and their dwelling place will be upon the mountains of the heights of Israel; there they will lie down in a good dwelling place,
and on rich pasture they will feed upon the mountains of Israel.
34:15 主耶和华说，我必亲自牧养我的羊群，使他们得以躺卧。
I Myself will shepherd My flock, and I will cause them to lie down, declares the Lord Jehovah.
34:16 迷失的，我必寻找；被逐的，我必领回；受伤的，我必缠裹；软弱的，我必加强；只是肥的壮的，我必除灭－我要按公平牧养他们。
I will seek the lost one and bring back the one that was driven away and bind up the broken one and strengthen the sick one; but the fat one and the strong one I
will destroy-I will feed them with judgment.
34:17 我的羊群哪，论到你们，主耶和华如此说，我必在羊与羊中间、公绵羊与公山羊中间施行判断。
And as for you, O My flock, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, I will judge between one sheep and another, between the rams and the male goats.
34:18 你们这些肥壮的羊，在美好的草场吃草还以为不足么？剩下的草，你们竟用蹄践踏了；你们喝清水，剩下的水，你们竟用蹄搅浑了。
Is it not enough for you to feed on the good pasture and trample down the rest of your pasture with your feet and drink the clear water and foul the rest with your
feet?
34:19 至于我群羊中瘦弱的，只得吃你们用蹄所践踏的，喝你们用蹄所搅浑的。
Meanwhile My flock must feed on what is trampled by your feet and drink what is fouled by your feet.
34:20 所以，主耶和华如此说，我必亲自在肥羊和瘦羊中间施行判断。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah to them, It is I who am about to judge between the fat sheep and the thin sheep.
34:21 因为你们用胁用肩拥挤一切瘦弱的，又用角抵触，以致把他们驱散在外，
819
Because you pushed with flank and shoulder, and butted all the weak with your horns until you scattered them abroad,
34:22 所以，我必拯救我的群羊，他们必不再作掠物；我也必在羊和羊中间施行判断。
I will rescue My flock, and they will no longer be prey; and I will judge between one sheep and another.
34:23 我必立一牧人照管他们，牧养他们，就是我的仆人大卫；他必牧养他们，作他们的牧人。
And I will set up over them one Shepherd, My Servant David, and He will feed them; He will feed them, and He will be their Shepherd.
34:24 我耶和华必作他们的神，我的仆人大卫必在他们中间作首领。我耶和华已经说了。
And I, Jehovah, will be their God, and My Servant David will be a Prince among them. I, Jehovah, have spoken.
34:25 我必与他们立平安的约，使恶兽从那地绝迹，他们就必安居在旷野，安睡在林中。
And I will make with them a covenant of peace and banish evil beasts from the land, so that they will dwell securely in the wilderness and sleep in the woods.
34:26 我必使他们与我山的四围成为福源，我也必叫雨按时落下；那必是赐福的雨。
And I will make them and the places around My hill a blessing, and I will cause the showers to come down in their season; there will be showers of blessing.
34:27 田野的树必结果，地也必有出产；他们必在自己的地安然居住。我折断他们所负的轭，救他们脱离奴役他们之人的手；那时，他们就知道我是耶和
华。
And the trees of the field will yield their fruit, and the earth will yield its increase, and they will be secure in their land; then they will know that I am Jehovah, when
I break the bars of their yoke and deliver them from the hand of those who enslaved them.
34:28 他们必不再作列国的掠物，地上的野兽也不再吞吃他们；他们却要安然居住，无人惊吓。
And they will no longer be prey to the nations, nor will the beasts of the earth devour them; but they will dwell securely, and no one will make them afraid.
34:29 我必给他们兴起有名的植物；他们在那地不再为饥荒所灭，也不再担受列国的羞辱。
And I will raise up for them a planting place of renown, and they will no longer be consumed with famine in the land and no longer bear the disgrace of the
nations.
34:30 他们就必知道，我耶和华他们的神是与他们同在的，并知道他们以色列家是我的民，这是主耶和华说的。
Thus they will know that I, Jehovah their God, am with them, and that they, the house of Israel, are My people, declares the Lord Jehovah.
34:31 你们作我的群羊，我草场上的群羊；你们是人，我是你们的神，这是主耶和华说的。
And you are My flock, the flock of My pasture; you are men, and I am your God, declares the Lord Jehovah.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 35 章
35:1 耶和华的话又临到我，说，
Moreover the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
35:2 人子阿，你要面向西珥山，说预言攻击它，
Son of man, set your face against Mount Seir, and prophesy against it,
35:3 对它说，主耶和华如此说，西珥山哪，我与你为敌，必伸手攻击你，使你荒凉旷废。
And say to it, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Indeed I am against you, O Mount Seir, And I will stretch out My hand against you And make you a desolation and a
waste.
35:4 我必使你的城邑变为荒场，你必成为荒凉；你就知道我是耶和华。
I will lay your cities waste, And you will be desolate; And you will know that I am Jehovah.
35:5 因为你永怀仇恨，在以色列人遭灾、罪孽到了尽头的时候，将他们交与刀剑的权势；
Because you have had a perpetual enmity and handed the children of Israel over to the power of the sword at the time of their calamity, in the time of the
punishment of the end;
35:6 所以主耶和华说，我指着我的生存起誓，我必使你遭遇流血的报应，这血必追赶你；你既不恨恶杀人流血，所以这血必追赶你。
Therefore, as I live, declares the Lord Jehovah, I will prepare you for blood, and blood will pursue you; since you have not hated bloodshed, therefore bloodshed
will pursue you.
35:7 我必使西珥山荒凉旷废，我必从那里剪除来往经过的人。
Thus I will make Mount Seir a waste and a desolation, and I will cut off from it him who passes through and him who returns.
35:8 我必使西珥的众山满了被杀的人。被刀杀的，必倒在你小山和山谷、并一切深谷中。
And I will fill its mountains with its slain. The slain will fall by the sword in your hills and in your valleys and in all your ravines.
35:9 我必使你永远荒凉，你的城邑必无人居住，你们就知道我是耶和华。
I will make you a perpetual desolation, and your cities will not be inhabited, and you will know that I am Jehovah.
35:10 因为你曾说，这二国这二邦必归于我，我必得为业，(其实耶和华仍在那里，)
Because you have said, These two nations and these two countries will belong to me, and we will possess them-even though Jehovah was there -
35:11 所以主耶和华说，我指着我的生存起誓，我必照着你因仇恨他们而发出的怒气和妒忌对待你；我审判你的时候，必在他们中间使人认识我。
Therefore, as I live, declares the Lord Jehovah, I will deal with you according to your anger and according to your jealousy, which you displayed in your hatred of
them, and I will make Myself known among them when I judge you.
35:12 你也必知道我耶和华听见了你的一切毁谤，就是你攻击以色列众山的话，说，这些山荒凉，是归我们吞灭的。
And you will know that I, Jehovah, have heard all your reviling which you have spoken against the mountains of Israel, saying, They are desolate; they have been
given to us to devour.
35:13 你们也用口向我夸大，增添与我反对的话，我都听见了。
And you have magnified yourselves against Me with your mouth and multiplied your words against Me; I have heard.
35:14 主耶和华如此说，全地喜乐的时候，我必使你荒凉。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, When the whole earth rejoices, I will make you desolate.
35:15 你怎样因以色列家的地业荒凉而喜乐，我必照样对待你。西珥山哪，你和以东全地必都荒凉。他们就知道我是耶和华。
As you rejoiced over the inheritance of the house of Israel because it was desolate, so I will do to you. You will be desolate, O Mount Seir and all Edom, the whole
land. Then they will know that I am Jehovah.
820
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 36 章
36:1 人子阿，你要对以色列的众山预言说，以色列的众山哪，要听耶和华的话。
And you, son of man, prophesy to the mountains of Israel and say, O mountains of Israel, hear the word of Jehovah.
36:2 主耶和华如此说，因仇敌攻击你们说，阿哈！这古老的山冈都归我们为业了！
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because the enemy has said against you, Aha! Even the ancient high places have become our possession!
36:3 所以要预言说，主耶和华如此说，因为敌人使你们荒凉，四围践踏你们，好叫你们归与列国中余剩的人为业，并且你们成了说不同方言者所谈论，以
及众人所谗谤的。
Therefore prophesy and say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because, even because, they have desolated and crushed you from every side so that you might
become the possession of the remnant of the nations, and you have been taken up in the talk of different tongues and in the whispering of people;
36:4 故此，以色列的众山要听主耶和华的话。耶和华对大小山冈、大小山谷、荒废之地、被弃之城，为四围列国中余剩的人所掠夺、所讥刺的如此说，
Therefore, O mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord Jehovah. Thus says the Lord Jehovah to the mountains and the hills, to the ravines and the valleys, to
the desolate ruins and to the forsaken cities, which have become plunder and a mocking to the remnant of the nations which are all around;
36:5 因此，主耶和华如此说，我真发妒愤如火，责备列国中余剩的人和以东的众人；他们都满心快乐、魂中轻蔑的将我的地归自己为业，作他们的牧场和
掠物。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Surely in the fire of My jealousy I have spoken against the remnant of the nations and against Edom, all of whom have
appointed My land to themselves for a possession with the joy of all their heart, with despising in their soul, for their pasture and plunder.
36:6 所以，你要指着以色列地说预言，对大小山冈、大小山谷说，主耶和华如此说，我是在妒愤和忿怒之中说话，因你们曾担受列国的羞辱，
Therefore prophesy concerning the land of Israel, and say to the mountains and to the hills, to the ravines and to the valleys, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Indeed I
am speaking in My jealousy and in My wrath because you have borne the disgrace of the nations.
36:7 所以主耶和华如此说，我举手起誓说，你们四围的列国总要担当自己的羞辱。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, I swear, saying, Surely the nations that surround you will bear their own disgrace.
36:8 至于你们，以色列的众山哪，你们必发枝条，为我的民以色列结果子，因为他们快要来到。
But you, O mountains of Israel, you will shoot forth your branches and yield your fruit for My people Israel, for their coming is near.
36:9 我是帮助你们的，也必转而眷顾你们，使你们得被耕种。
For indeed I am for you, and I will turn to you, and you will be tilled and sown;
36:10 我必使以色列全家的人数在你们上面增多，城邑必有人居住，荒场必再被建造。
And I will multiply people upon you, the entire house of Israel, all of it! The cities will also be inhabited, and the waste places will be rebuilt.
36:11 我必使人和牲畜在你们上面增多；他们必增多繁衍；我要使你们有人居住，像先前一样，并要使你们比起初更亨通。你们就知道我是耶和华。
I will also multiply upon you man and beast, and they will increase and be fruitful, and I will make you inhabited as you were formerly, and I will make it better for
you than when you began. Then you will know that I am Jehovah.
36:12 我必使人，就是我的民以色列，行在你们上面；他们必得你为业，你要成为他们的产业，你也不再使他们丧子。
Yes, I will cause men to walk upon you, My people Israel; and they will possess you, and you will be their inheritance, and you will no longer bereave them of
children again.
36:13 主耶和华如此说，因为人对你们说，你是吞吃人的，又使自己的国民丧子；
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because they are saying of you, You are a land that devours men and bereaves your nation of children;
36:14 所以主耶和华说，你必不再吞吃人，也不再使自己的国民丧子。
Therefore you will no longer devour men or any longer bereave your nation of children, declares the Lord Jehovah.
36:15 我使你不再听见各国的羞辱，不再担受万民的辱骂，你也不再使自己的国民绊跌，这是主耶和华说的。
And I will no longer let you hear the disgrace of the nations nor any longer bear the reproach of the peoples, and you will no longer cause your nation to stumble,
declares the Lord Jehovah.
36:16 耶和华的话又临到我，说，
Moreover the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
36:17 人子阿，以色列家住在本地的时候，以他们的行径和作为玷污那地；他们的行径在我面前，好像在月经污秽中的妇人那样不洁。
Son of man, when the house of Israel dwelt in their own land, they defiled it by their way and by their doings; their way before Me was like the uncleanness of a
woman in her impurity.
36:18 所以我因他们在那地上所流人的血，又因他们以偶像玷污那地，就把我的忿怒倾倒在他们身上。
Therefore I poured out My wrath upon them because of the blood which they had poured out upon the land and because they had defiled it with their idols.
36:19 我将他们四散在列国，分散在列邦，按他们的行径和作为审判他们。
And I scattered them among the nations, and they were dispersed through the countries. According to their way and according to their doings I judged them.
36:20 他们到了所去的列国，就亵渎我的圣名；因为人谈论他们说，这些是耶和华的民，是从耶和华的地出来的。
And when they came to the nations where they went, they profaned My holy name, inasmuch as it was said of them, These are the people of Jehovah, and they
have gone forth out of His land.
36:21 我却顾惜我的圣名，就是以色列家在所到的列国中所亵渎的。
But I had regard for My holy name, which the house of Israel had profaned among the nations where they went.
36:22 所以，你要对以色列家说，主耶和华如此说，以色列家阿，我行这事不是为你们，乃是为我的圣名，就是你们在所到的列国中所亵渎的。
Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, I am not doing this for your sake, O house of Israel, but for My holy name, which you have
profaned among the nations where you went.
36:23 我要使我的大名显为圣别；这名在列国中已被亵渎，就是你们在他们中间所亵渎的。我在列国的人眼前，在你们身上显为圣别的时候，他们就知道
我是耶和华；这是主耶和华说的。
And I will sanctify My great name, which has been profaned among the nations, which you have profaned in their midst; and the nations will know that I am
Jehovah, declares the Lord Jehovah, when I am sanctified in you in their sight.
36:24 我必从列国收取你们，从列邦聚集你们，把你们带回自己的地。
And I will take you from the nations and gather you from all the countries and bring you into your own land.
36:25 我必用清水洒在你们身上，你们就洁净了；我要洁净你们，使你们脱离一切的污秽，脱离一切的偶像。
And I will sprinkle clean water upon you, and you will be clean; from all your filthiness and from all your idols I will cleanse you.
821
36:26 我也要赐给你们新心，将新灵放在你们里面；又从你们的肉体中除掉石心，赐给你们肉心。
I will also give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you; and I will take away the heart of stone out of your flesh, and I will give you a heart of flesh.
36:27 我必将我的灵放在你们里面，使你们遵行我的律例，谨守遵行我的典章。
And I will put My Spirit within you and cause you to walk in My statutes, and My ordinances you shall keep and do.
36:28 你们必住在我所赐给你们列祖之地；你们要作我的子民，我要作你们的神。
And you shall dwell in the land which I gave to your fathers; and you will be My people, and I will be your God.
36:29 我必救你们脱离一切的不洁，也必命令五谷丰登，不使饥荒临到你们。
And I will save you from all your uncleanness, and I will summon the grain and multiply it, and bring no famine upon you.
36:30 我必使树木多结果子，田地多有出产，好叫你们在列国中不再因饥荒受凌辱。
And I will multiply the fruit of the trees and the produce of the field, that you may no longer receive the reproach of famine among the nations.
36:31 那时，你们必追想你们邪恶的行径和你们不善的作为，就因你们的罪孽和可憎的事看自己为可厌恶的。
Then you will remember your evil ways and your doings that were not good, and you will loathe yourselves in your own sight for your iniquities and for your
abominations.
36:32 主耶和华说，你们要知道，我这样行不是为你们。以色列家阿，当为自己的行径抱愧蒙羞。
It is not for your sake that I am doing this, declares the Lord Jehovah; let it be known to you. Be ashamed and humiliated on account of your ways, O house of
Israel.
36:33 主耶和华如此说，我洁净你们，使你们脱离一切罪孽的日子，必使城邑有人居住，荒场再被建造。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, On the day that I cleanse you from all your iniquities, I will cause the cities to be inhabited, and the waste places will be rebuilt.
36:34 从前荒凉之地必仍得耕作，过路的人不再看为荒凉。
And the land that was desolate will be tilled instead of being desolate in the sight of all who passed by.
36:35 他们必说，这先前为荒凉之地，现在成如伊甸园；这荒废凄凉、毁坏的城邑现在坚固有人居住。
And they will say, This land that was desolate has become like the garden of Eden, and the waste and desolate and ruined cities are fortified and inhabited.
36:36 那时，在你们四围余剩的列国，必知道我耶和华修造那毁坏之处，培植那荒凉之地。我耶和华说过，也必成就。
Then the nations that are left all around you will know that I, Jehovah, have rebuilt the ruined places and planted that which was desolate. I, Jehovah, have
spoken, and I will do it.
36:37 主耶和华如此说，我要加增以色列家的人数，多如羊群；他们必为这事向我求问，我要给他们成就。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Moreover for this I will be inquired of by the house of Israel to do it for them; I will increase them with men like a flock.
36:38 圣别作祭物的羊群怎样多，耶路撒冷在所定的节期羊群怎样多，照样，荒凉的城邑必被人群充满；他们就知道我是耶和华。
Like the holy flock for sacrifices, like the flock of Jerusalem in her appointed feasts, so will the waste cities be filled with flocks of men; and they will know that I am
Jehovah.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 37 章
37:1 耶和华的手降在我身上，耶和华在祂的灵里带我出去，将我放在平原中；这平原遍满骸骨。
The hand of Jehovah came upon me, and He brought me out in the Spirit of Jehovah and set me down in the midst of the valley; and it was full of bones.
37:2 祂使我从骸骨的四围经过，在平原上的骸骨甚多，而且极其枯干。
And He caused me to pass all around among them, and there were very many on the surface of the valley, and they were also very dry.
37:3 祂对我说，人子阿，这些骸骨能活过来么？我说，主耶和华阿，你是知道的。
And He said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord Jehovah, You know.
37:4 祂又对我说，你要向这些骸骨预言说，枯干的骸骨阿，要听耶和华的话。
Then He said to me, Prophesy over these bones, and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of Jehovah.
37:5 主耶和华对这些骸骨如此说，我必使气息进入你们里面，你们就要活了。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah to these bones: I will cause breath to enter into you, and you shall live.
37:6 我必给你们加上筋，使你们长肉，又将皮遮蔽你们，使气息进入你们里面，你们就要活了；你们便知道我是耶和华。
And I will put sinews on you and bring flesh back on you and cover you with skin and put breath in you, and you shall live; and you will know that I am Jehovah.
37:7 于是，我遵命说预言。正说预言的时候，就有响声，不料，有震动；骸骨彼此接近，骨与骨联络。
So I prophesied as I was commanded. And as I prophesied, there was a noise, and suddenly, a rattling; and the bones came together, bone to its bone.
37:8 我观看，见骸骨上有筋，也长了肉，又有皮遮蔽其上，只是里面还没有气息。
And I looked, and there were sinews on them, and flesh came back, and skin covered them over; but there was no breath in them.
37:9 主对我说，你要向风说预言；人子阿，你要说预言，向风说，主耶和华如此说，气息阿，要从四方而来，吹在这些被杀的人身上，使他们活了。
Then He said to me, Prophesy to the wind; prophesy, son of man, and say to the wind, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Come from the four winds, O breath, and
breathe on these slain, that they may live.
37:10 于是我遵命说预言，气息就进入骸骨，骸骨便活了，并且站起来，成为极大的军队。
So I prophesied as He commanded me, and the breath came into them; and they lived and stood up upon their feet, an exceedingly great army.
37:11 主对我说，人子阿，这些骸骨就是以色列全家。他们说，我们的骨头枯干了，我们的指望失去了，我们被剪除净尽了。
Then He said to me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Now they say, Our bones are dried up, and our hope is lost; we are cut off
completely.
37:12 所以你要说预言，对他们说，主耶和华如此说，我的民哪，我必开你们的坟墓，使你们从坟墓中上来，领你们进入以色列地。
Therefore prophesy, and say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Now I will open your graves and cause you to come up out of your graves, O My people; and I
will bring you into the land of Israel.
37:13 我的民哪，我开你们的坟墓，使你们从坟墓中上来，你们就知道我是耶和华。
And you will know that I am Jehovah, when I open your graves and bring you up out of your graves, O My people.
37:14 我必将我的灵放在你们里面，你们就要活了；我将你们安置在本地，你们就知道我耶和华如此说，也如此成就了；这是耶和华说的。
And I will put My Spirit in you, and you shall live; and I will place you in your own land. Then you will know that I, Jehovah, have spoken and that I have performed
it declares Jehovah.
822
37:15 耶和华的话又临到我，说，
The word of Jehovah came again to me, saying,
37:16 人子阿，你要取一根木杖，在其上写：为犹大和他的同伴以色列人；又取一根木杖，在其上写：为约瑟(以法莲的木杖)和他的同伴以色列全家。
And you, son of man, take one piece of wood, and write upon it, For Judah and for the children of Israel associated with him; then take another piece of wood,
and write upon it, For Joseph, the piece of wood of Ephraim, and for all the house of Israel associated with him;
37:17 你要使这两根木杖彼此接连为一，在你手中成为一根。
And bring them together, one side to the other, into one piece of wood, that they may become united in your hand.
37:18 你本族的子民问你说，你不告诉我们这些木杖是什么意思么？
And when the children of your people speak to you, saying, Will you not tell us what you mean by these?
37:19 你就对他们说，主耶和华如此说，我要将约瑟和他同伴以色列支派的木杖，就是那在以法莲手中的取来，放在犹大的木杖上，使其成为一根木杖，
二者就在我手中成为一根。
Say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, I am about to take the piece of wood of Joseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel associated with
him; and I will put them upon it, that is, the piece of wood of Judah, and make them one piece of wood, and they will be one in My hand.
37:20 你在其上写字的那两根木杖，要在他们眼前拿在手中；
And the pieces of wood on which you write shall be in your hand before their eyes.
37:21 要对他们说，主耶和华如此说，我要将以色列人从他们所到的列国中收取，又从四围聚集他们，领他们进入自己的地。
And you shall say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, I am about to take the children of Israel from among the nations, where they have gone, and I will gather
them from all around and bring them into their own land.
37:22 我要使他们在那地，在以色列的众山上成为一国，有一王作他们众人的王；他们不再是二国，绝不再分为二国。
And I will make them one nation in the land upon the mountains of Israel, and one king will be king to all of them; and they will no longer be two nations, nor will
they be divided into two kingdoms any more at all.
37:23 他们必不再因偶像和可憎的物，并一切的过犯玷污自己；我却要救他们出离一切的住处，就是他们犯罪的地方，并要洁净他们。如此，他们要作我
的子民，我要作他们的神。
They will not defile themselves any longer with their idols, or their detestable things, or any of their transgressions; but I will save them out of all their dwelling
places, in which they have sinned, and I will cleanse them. Therefore they will be My people, and I will be their God.
37:24 我的仆人大卫必作他们的王，他们众人必归一个牧人。他们必遵行我的典章，谨守遵行我的律例。
And My Servant David will be King over them, and they all will have one Shepherd. They will also walk in My ordinances and observe My statutes and do them.
37:25 他们必住在我赐给我仆人雅各的地上，就是你们列祖所住之地；他们和他们的子孙，并子孙的子孙，都必住在那里，直到永远。我的仆人大卫必作
他们的首领，直到永远。
And they will dwell in the land that I have given to Jacob My servant, in which your fathers dwelt; and they will dwell in it, they, their children, and their children's
children, forever. And David My Servant will be their Prince forever.
37:26 并且我要与他们立平安的约，作为与他们所立的永约。我也要将他们安置在本地，使他们的人数增多，又在他们中间设立我的圣所，直到永远。
I will also make a covenant of peace with them; it shall be an everlasting covenant with them. And I will set them there and multiply them, and I will set My
sanctuary in their midst forever,
37:27 我的帐幕必在他们中间；我要作他们的神，他们要作我的子民。
And My tabernacle will be with them; and I will be their God, and they will be My people.
37:28 我的圣所在以色列人中间直到永远，列国就必知道我是使以色列分别为圣的耶和华。
Then the nations will know that I am Jehovah, who sanctifies Israel, when My sanctuary will be in their midst forever.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 38 章
38:1 耶和华的话临到我，说，
Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
38:2 人子阿，你要面向玛各地的歌革，就是罗施、米设、土巴的首领，说预言攻击他，
Son of man, set your face toward Gog of the land of Magog, the prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal, and prophesy against him,
38:3 说，主耶和华如此说，罗施、米设、土巴的首领歌革阿，我与你为敌。
And say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Indeed I am against you, O Gog, prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal.
38:4 我必将你调转过来，用钩子钩住你的腮颊，将你和你一切的军兵、马匹、马兵带出来，都披挂齐全，成了大队，有大小盾牌，各拿刀剑；
And I will turn you around and put hooks into your jaws, and I will bring you and all your army forth, horses and horsemen, all of them clothed in full armor, a
great company with shield and buckler, all of them wielding swords;
38:5 有波斯人、古实人和弗人与他们在一起，各拿盾牌，头上戴盔；
Persia, Cush, and Put with them, all of them with shield and helmet;
38:6 歌篾人和他们的全军，北方极处的伯陀迦玛人和他们的全军，这许多民族都同着你。
Gomer and all its hordes, Beth-togarmah from the remotest parts of the north and all its hordes, many peoples with you.
38:7 你要准备；你和那聚集到你这里的全部群众都要准备，你要作他们的护卫。
Get ready; indeed get yourself ready, you and all your company who have gathered to you, and become their guard.
38:8 过了多日，你必被点阅出战；到末后之年，你必来到脱离刀剑得恢复之地，其百姓从许多民族中，聚集到以色列常久荒凉的众山上。如今他们从各民
族中被领出来，都在那里安然居住。
After many days you will be visited; in the last years you will come into the land which was brought back from the sword, and whose people were gathered from
many peoples on the mountains of Israel, which have been a perpetual waste. Now they have been brought out from the peoples, and all of them dwell securely.
38:9 你必上来，如暴风临到；你和你的全军，并同着你的许多民族，必如密云遮盖那地。
And you will go up, coming like a storm; you will be like a cloud covering the land, you and all your hordes and many peoples with you.
38:10 主耶和华如此说，到那日，你心必起意念，图谋恶计，
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, On that day things will come up in your heart, and you will devise an evil device.
38:11 说，我要上那无城墙的村庄之地；我要到那平静安居的民那里，他们都安然居住，没有城墙，无门无闩；
823
And you will say, I will go up to the land of unwalled villages; I will come upon those at rest, dwelling securely, all of them dwelling without walls, without bars or
doors;
38:12 我要抢夺掳物，夺取掠物，反手攻击那从前荒凉、现在有人居住的地方，又攻击那从列国招聚出来、得了牲畜财货、住在地上中心地带的民。
To seize spoil and carry off plunder, to turn your hand against the once waste places, now inhabited, and against the people who are gathered out from the
nations, who have acquired livestock and goods, who dwell at the middle of the earth.
38:13 示巴人、底但人、他施的客商、和其间的少壮狮子都必问你说，你来要抢夺掳物么？你聚集 众要夺取掠物么？要搬走金银，掳去牲畜、财货么？
要抢夺许多掳物么？
Sheba and Dedan and the merchants of Tarshish, with all their young lions, will say to you, Have you come to seize spoil? Have you assembled your company to
carry off plunder, to carry away silver and gold, to take away livestock and goods, to seize great spoil?
38:14 因此，人子阿，你要说预言，对歌革说，主耶和华如此说，到我民以色列安然居住之日，你岂不知道么？
Therefore, son of man, prophesy, and say to Gog, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Surely on that day when My people Israel are dwelling securely, you will recognize
it;
38:15 你必从自己的地方，从北方的极处，率领许多民族来，都骑着马，乃大队聚集的人，并极多的军兵。
And you will come from your place from the remotest parts of the north, you and many peoples with you, all of them riding upon horses, a great company and a
mighty army;
38:16 歌革阿，你必上来攻击我的民以色列，如密云遮盖那地。末后的日子，我必带你来攻击我的地，好叫列国的人，到我在他们眼前，在你身上显为圣
别的时候，得以认识我。
And you will come up against My people Israel, like a cloud to cover the land. In the last days I will bring you against My land so that the nations may know Me,
when I am sanctified through you, O Gog, before their eyes.
38:17 主耶和华如此说，我在古时藉我的仆人以色列的申言者所说的，就是你么？当日他们多年预言我必带你来攻击以色列人。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Are you the one of whom I spoke in earlier times through My servants the prophets of Israel, who prophesied in those days for many
years that I would bring you against them?
38:18 主耶和华说，在那日，歌革来攻击以色列地的时候，我的怒气要从鼻孔里发出。
And on that day, when Gog comes against the land of Israel, declares the Lord Jehovah, My wrath will come up in My nostrils.
38:19 我在妒忌和怒火之中说，那日在以色列地必有大地震；
For in My jealousy and in My fiery wrath I have spoken, Surely on that day there will be a great earthquake in the land of Israel;
38:20 甚至海中的鱼、天空的鸟、田野的兽、地上所爬的一切爬物、和地面上的众人，因见我的面就都震动；山岭必崩裂，陡岩必塌陷，墙垣都必坍倒于
地。
The fish of the sea, the birds of the sky, the beasts of the field, all the creeping things that creep upon the earth, and every human being on the surface of the
earth will quake at My presence, and mountains will be thrown down, and slopes will slide, and every wall will fall to the ground.
38:21 主耶和华说，我必呼唤我的诸山发刀剑来攻击歌革；各人的刀剑要攻击自己的弟兄。
And I will call to all My mountains for a sword against him, declares the Lord Jehovah; every man's sword shall be against his brother.
38:22 我必用瘟疫和流血的事审判他；我也必将暴雨、大雹、火与硫磺，降在他和他的军队，并他所率领多族的民身上。
And I will enter into judgment with him with pestilence and with blood; and I will rain torrential rain and great hailstones, fire and brimstone, upon him and his
hordes and the many peoples who are with him.
38:23 我必显为大，显为圣别，在多国人的眼前让人认识，他们就知道我是耶和华。
And I will magnify Myself and sanctify Myself and make Myself known in the sight of many nations, and they will know that I am Jehovah.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 39 章
39:1 人子阿，你要向歌革说预言攻击他，说，主耶和华如此说，罗施、米设、土巴的首领歌革阿，我与你为敌。
And you, son of man, prophesy against Gog and say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Indeed I am against you, O Gog, prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal.
39:2 我必将你调转过来，引你前往，带你从北方的极处上来，带你到以色列的众山上；
And I will turn you around and drive you on and bring you up from the remotest parts of the north, and I will bring you upon the mountains of Israel;
39:3 我必从你左手打落你的弓，从你右手打掉你的箭。
And I will strike your bow out of your left hand and make your arrows fall out of your right hand.
39:4 你和你的军队，并你所率领多族的民，都必倒在以色列的众山上。我必将你给各类的鸷鸟和田野的走兽作食物。
You will fall upon the mountains of Israel, you, all your hordes, and the peoples with you. I will give you up as food to every kind of scavenging bird and to the
beasts of the field.
39:5 你必倒在田野，因为我曾说过；这是主耶和华说的。
You will fall upon the open field, for I have spoken it, declares the Lord Jehovah.
39:6 我要降火在玛各和那些安居于众海岛的人身上，他们就知道我是耶和华。
And I will send fire on Magog and on those who dwell securely in the isles, and they will know that I am Jehovah.
39:7 我要在我民以色列中使人认识我的圣名，也不容我的圣名再被亵渎；列国人就知道我是耶和华以色列中的圣者。
And I will make known My holy name in the midst of My people Israel, and I will not allow My holy name to be profaned anymore. Then the nations will know that
I am Jehovah, the Holy One in Israel.
39:8 主耶和华说，这日事情临近，也必成就；这乃是我所说的日子。
Indeed it is coming and will take place, declares the Lord Jehovah. This is the day of which I have spoken.
39:9 住以色列城邑的人必出去，用器械当柴焚烧，就是用大小盾牌、弓箭、枪、矛当柴烧火，直烧七年。
And the inhabitants of the cities of Israel will go out and set fire to the weapons and burn them: bucklers and shields, bows and arrows, and javelins and spears;
and they will fuel fires with them for seven years.
39:10 他们不必从田野捡柴，也不必从树林伐木，因为他们要用器械当柴烧火；他们要抢夺那抢夺他们的人，掳掠那掳掠他们的人，这是主耶和华说的。
They will not carry in wood from the field nor fell any from the forests, for they will fuel fires with the weapons. And they will spoil their spoilers and plunder their
plunderers, declares the Lord Jehovah.
824
39:11 当那日，我必在以色列，就是海以东，人所经过的谷，赐给歌革一块坟地，使经过的人到此停步。在那里人必葬埋歌革和他一切的群众，就称那地
为哈们歌革谷。
And on that day I will give Gog a burial place in Israel, the valley of those who pass through, east of the sea; and it will stop those who pass through. And there
they will bury Gog and all his multitude, and they will call it the valley of Hamon-gog.
39:12 以色列家必用七个月葬埋他们，为要洁净那地。
And the house of Israel will spend seven months burying them in order to cleanse the land.
39:13 那地的众民都必葬埋他们；当我得荣耀的日子，这事必叫他们得名声，这是主耶和华说的。
Indeed all the people of the land will bury them; and it will bring fame to them on the day that I am glorified, declares the Lord Jehovah.
39:14 他们必分派人时常在那地巡行，巡行的人要与那些葬埋剩在地面上之尸首的人，一同洁净那地。过了七个月，他们还要搜寻。
And they will set apart men for continual employment, who will pass through the land; and with those who pass through will come those who bury those who
remain upon the surface of the land, to cleanse it. They will search up to the end of seven months.
39:15 巡行的人要行经那地，见有人的骸骨，就在旁边立一标记，等负责葬埋的人来将骸骨葬在哈们歌革谷。
And those who pass through the land will pass through; and when anyone sees a human bone, he will erect a marker by it, until those responsible for burials
have buried it in the valley of Hamon-gog.
39:16 那里也有一城名叫哈摩那。他们必这样洁净那地。
And Hamonah will also be the name of a city. So they will cleanse the land.
39:17 至于你，人子阿，主耶和华如此说，你要对各类的飞鸟和田野一切的走兽说，你们聚集来罢，要从四围聚集来赴我的祭筵，就是我为你们宰献祭物，
在以色列众山上所预备的大祭筵，好叫你们吃肉、喝血。
And you, son of man, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Speak to every kind of bird and to every beast of the field, Assemble yourselves and come; gather yourselves
from all around to My sacrifice which I sacrifice for you, a great sacrifice upon the mountains of Israel, so that you may eat flesh and drink blood.
39:18 你们必吃勇士的肉，喝地上首领的血，就如吃公绵羊、羊羔、公山羊、公牛，都是巴珊的肥畜。
You shall eat the flesh of the mighty and drink the blood of the princes of the earth, as of rams, lambs and male goats, bulls, all of them fatlings of Bashan.
39:19 你们吃我为你们宰献祭物所预备的祭筵，必吃饱了脂油，喝醉了血。
And you shall eat fat until you are satisfied and drink blood until you are drunk, from My sacrifice which I have sacrificed for you.
39:20 你们必在我席上饱吃马匹和坐车的人，并勇士和一切的战士，这是主耶和华说的。
And you will be satisfied at My table with horses and chariots, with mighty men and with all the men of war, declares the Lord Jehovah.
39:21 我必显我的荣耀在列国中，万国就必看见我所行的审判，与我所加在他们身上的手。
And I will establish My glory among the nations, and all the nations will see My judgment which I have executed and My hand which I have laid upon them.
39:22 这样，从那日以后，以色列家必知道我是耶和华他们的神。
So the house of Israel will know that I am Jehovah their God from that day onward.
39:23 列国人也必知道以色列家被掳，是因他们的罪孽，因他们干犯我，我就掩面不顾，将他们交在敌人手中，他们便都倒在刀下。
And the nations will know that the house of Israel went into captivity for their iniquity because they trespassed against Me, and I hid My face from them. So I gave
them into the hand of their adversaries, and all of them fell by the sword.
39:24 我是照他们的污秽和过犯对待他们，并且我掩面不顾他们。
According to their uncleanness and according to their transgressions I dealt with them, and I hid My face from them.
39:25 因此，主耶和华如此说，现在我要使雅各被掳的人归回，要怜悯以色列全家，又为我的圣名发妒忌。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Now I will turn the captivity of Jacob and have mercy upon the whole house of Israel, and I will be jealous for My holy name.
39:26 他们在自己的地安然居住，无人惊吓时，就要担当自己的羞辱，和干犯我的一切罪。
And they shall bear their disgrace and all their trespasses with which they have trespassed against Me, when they shall dwell securely in their land, and no one
will make them afraid.
39:27 我将他们从万民中领回，从仇敌之地招聚出来时，我必在许多国的民眼前，在他们身上显为圣别。
When I have brought them back from the peoples and gathered them out of their enemies' lands, I will be sanctified in them in the sight of many nations.
39:28 因我使他们被掳到列国中，后又聚集他们归回自己的地，他们就知道我是耶和华他们的神；我必不再留他们一人在列国那里。
And they will know that I am Jehovah their God because I brought them into captivity among the nations and have gathered them to their own land; and I will
never again leave any of them there.
39:29 我也不再掩面不顾他们，因我已将我的灵浇灌以色列家，这是主耶和华说的。
And I will no longer hide My face from them, for I will have poured out My Spirit upon the house of Israel, declares the Lord Jehovah.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 40 章
40:1 我们被掳第二十五年，耶路撒冷城被攻破后第十四年，正在年初，月之初十日，耶和华的手降在我身上，祂把我带到那里。
In the twenty-fifth year of our captivity, at the beginning of the year, on the tenth day of the month, in the fourteenth year after the city was struck down, on that
same day the hand of Jehovah was upon me, and He brought me there.
40:2 在神的异象中，祂带我到以色列地，把我安置在极高的山上；在山上的南边有仿佛一座城的建筑。
In the visions of God He brought me into the land of Israel and set me down upon a very high mountain, and on it to the south there was a structure like a city.
40:3 祂带我到那里，见有一个人，样子像铜，手拿麻绳和量度的苇子，站在门口。
And He brought me there, and there was a man, whose appearance was like the appearance of bronze with a line of flax and a measuring reed in His hand,
standing in the gate.
40:4 那人对我说，人子阿，凡我所指示你的，你都要用眼看，用耳听，并要放在心上；因为我带你到这里来，目的是要使你看见；凡你所看见的，你都要
告诉以色列家。
And the man said to me, Son of man, look with your eyes, and hear with your ears, and set your heart on all that I show you, because for this purpose you have
been brought here that it may be shown to you. Tell all that you see to the house of Israel.
40:5 看哪，殿外四围有墙。那人手拿量度的苇子，长六肘，每肘是一肘零一掌。祂量那建筑的墙，厚一苇，高一苇。
Now there was a wall, all around the outside of the house, and in the man's hand a measuring reed six cubits long, each cubit a cubit and a handbreadth. So He
measured the thickness of the structure, one reed; and the height, one reed.
825
40:6 祂到了朝东的门，就上门的台阶，量门的过道，深一苇；每一过道深一苇。
Then He came to the gate which faces toward the east and went up its steps, and He measured the threshold of the gate, one reed deep; and each thresh- old
was one reed deep.
40:7 又有卫房，每房长一苇，宽一苇，卫房之间相隔五肘；挨着向殿之门廊的过道，宽一苇。
And every guardroom was one reed long and one reed wide, and the space between the guardrooms was five cubits, and the threshold of the gate by the porch
of the gate toward the house was one reed.
40:8 祂又量向殿的门廊，横宽一苇。
He measured also the porch of the gate toward the house, one reed.
40:9 又量门廊，纵宽八肘；廊子的墙柱，柱面阔二肘；门廊向着殿。
Then He measured the porch of the gate, eight cubits; and its posts, two cubits; and the porch of the gate was toward the house.
40:10 朝东的门洞有卫房：这旁三间，那旁三间，三间都是一样的尺寸；这边和那边的墙柱，都是一样的尺寸。
And there were three guardrooms on one side and three on the other side of the gate which was facing east, and the three of them had the same measurement,
and the posts had the same measurement on both sides.
40:11 祂量门口，宽十肘，门长十三肘。
And He measured the width of the entrance of the gate, ten cubits; and the total length of the gate, thirteen cubits.
40:12 卫房前伸出的边缘，这边一肘，那边伸出的边缘一肘；卫房这边六肘，那边六肘。
And there was a border before the guardrooms, one cubit on this side, and a border, one cubit on that side; and the guardrooms, six cubits on this side, and six
cubits on that side.
40:13 又量门洞，从这卫房顶的后檐到那卫房顶的后檐，宽二十五肘；卫房门口与门口相对。
And He measured the total gate width from the roof edge of one guardroom to the roof edge of the other, twenty-five cubits. The entrances of the guardrooms
were opposite each other.
40:14 又量墙柱，柱面共阔六十肘；门洞内是院子，有墙柱为界。
He also made a measurement of the posts, sixty cubits in all; and the gate surrounded a court which reached to the posts.
40:15 从大门口前面到内门廊前面，共五十肘。
And the distance from the front of the gate at the entrance to the front of the inner porch of the gate was fifty cubits.
40:16 在门洞里面周围，卫房并墙柱间都有严紧的窗棂；廊子里面周围也有窗，墙柱上有雕刻的棕树。
And the guardrooms and their posts had latticed windows within and all around the gate. The porches also had windows within and all around, and palm trees
were on each post.
40:17 祂带我进外院，见有屋子，又有铺石地，铺造在院的周围；
Then He brought me into the outer court, and there were chambers and a pavement made for the court all around; thirty chambers were upon the pavement.
40:18 铺石地上有屋子三十间。铺石地，就是矮铺石地，在各门洞两旁，其宽度与门洞的长度相同。
And the pavement flanked the gates, its width equal to the length of the gates; that is, the lower pavement.
40:19 祂从下门前面，量到内院门外前面，宽一百肘，东面和北面都是如此。
Then He measured the distance from the front of the lower gate to the front of the outside of the inner court gate, a hundred cubits, both on the east and on the
north.
40:20 祂量外院朝北的门，长宽若干。
Then He measured the gate of the outer court which faced toward the north, its length and its width.
40:21 门洞的卫房，这旁有三间，那旁有三间。门洞的墙柱和廊子，与第一个门的尺寸一样；门洞长五十肘，宽二十五肘。
And it had three guardrooms on this side and three on that side. And its posts and its porch were of the same measurement as the first gate; its length was fifty
cubits, and the width twenty-five cubits.
40:22 其窗和廊子，并雕刻的棕树，与朝东的门尺寸一样；登七层台阶上到这门，前面有廊子。
And its windows and its porch and its palm trees were of the same measurement as the gate which faced toward the east, and seven steps led up to it, and its
porch was in front of them.
40:23 内院有门与这外门相对，北面和东面都是如此。祂从这门量到那门，共一百肘。
And there was a gate to the inner court opposite the outer gate, both on the north and on the east. And He measured the distance from gate to gate, a hundred
cubits.
40:24 祂带我往南去，见朝南有门，祂又照先前的尺寸量门洞的墙柱和廊子。
And He led me toward the south, and there was a gate toward the south, and He measured its posts and its porch according to those same measurements.
40:25 门洞与廊子的周围都有窗，和先量的窗一样；门洞长五十肘，宽二十五肘。
And the gate and its porch had windows all around just like those other windows; the length was fifty cubits, and the width twenty-five cubits.
40:26 登七层台阶上到这门，前面有廊子；门的墙柱上有雕刻的棕树，这边一棵，那边一棵。
And there were seven steps going up to it, and its porch was in front of them; and it had palm trees upon its posts, one on each side.
40:27 内院朝南有门，祂从这门量到朝南的那门，共一百肘。
And there was a gate to the inner court toward the south, and He measured the distance from gate to gate toward the south, a hundred cubits.
40:28 祂带我从南门进内院，就照先前的尺寸量南门；
Then He brought me into the inner court through the south gate, and He measured the south gate according to those same measurements,
40:29 卫房、墙柱和廊子，都照先前的尺寸；门洞与廊子的周围都有窗；门洞长五十肘，宽二十五肘。
And its guardrooms and its posts and its porches according to those same measurements; and it had windows in and around it and its porches; the length was
fifty cubits, and the width twenty-five cubits.
40:30 周围有廊子，长二十五肘，宽五肘。
And there were porches all around, twenty-five cubits long and five cubits wide.
40:31 廊子朝着外院，墙柱上有雕刻的棕树；这门的台阶有八层。
And its porches were toward the outer court, and palm trees were upon its posts, and its steps had eight steps.
40:32 祂带我进到内院的东面，就照先前的尺寸量东门；
And He brought me into the inner court toward the east, and He measured the gate according to those same measurements,
40:33 卫房、墙柱和廊子，都照先前的尺寸；门洞与廊子的周围都有窗；门洞长五十肘，宽二十五肘。
826
And its guardrooms and its posts and its porches according to those same measurements; and it had windows in and around it and its porches; the length was
fifty cubits, and the width twenty-five cubits.
40:34 廊子朝着外院，门洞两旁的墙柱上都有雕刻的棕树，这门的台阶有八层。
And its porches were toward the outer court, and palm trees were upon its posts on each side, and its steps had eight steps.
40:35 祂带我进北门，就照先前的尺寸量那门，
And He brought me to the north gate, and He measured it according to those same measurements,
40:36 就是量卫房、墙柱和廊子；门洞周围都有窗；门洞长五十肘，宽二十五肘。
Its guardrooms, its posts, and its porches; and it had windows in and around it; the length was fifty cubits, and the width twenty-five cubits.
40:37 门的廊子朝着外院，门洞两旁的墙柱上都有雕刻的棕树，这门的台阶有八层。
And its porches were toward the outer court, and palm trees were upon its posts, on each side, and its steps had eight steps.
40:38 门洞的墙柱旁有屋子和门；祭司在那里洗燔祭牲。
And a chamber with its entrance was by the posts at the gates; there they washed the burnt offering.
40:39 在门廊内，这边有两张桌子，那边有两张桌子，在其上可以宰杀燔祭牲、赎罪祭牲、和赎愆祭牲。
And in the porch of the gate were two tables on this side and two tables on that side on which to slay the burnt offering, the sin offering, and the trespass offering.
40:40 上到朝北的门口，在外面这边有两张桌子，门廊那边也有两张桌子。
And on one side outside, as one goes up to the entrance of the gate toward the north, were two tables; and on the other side, which belonged to the porch of the
gate, were two tables.
40:41 门旁这边有四张桌子，那边有四张桌子，共八张桌子，祭司在其上宰杀祭牲。
Four tables were on this side and four tables on that side beside the gate; eight tables on which they slaughtered the sacrifices.
40:42 为燔祭牲有四张桌子，是凿过的石头作成的，长一肘半，宽一肘半，高一肘，祭司将宰杀燔祭牲和平安祭牲所用的器具放在其上；
And there were four tables for the burnt offering, made of hewn stone, a cubit and a half long and a cubit and a half wide and one cubit high, on which they laid
the instruments with which they slaughtered the burnt offering and the sacrifice;
40:43 有双钩，宽一掌，钉在廊内的四围。桌子上有祭牲的肉。
And double hooks, a handbreadth long, were fastened on the inside all around. And upon the tables was the flesh of the offering.
40:44 在内院里，内门外有两间屋子，一间在北门旁，朝南；一间在南门旁，朝北。
And outside the inner gate in the inner court were two chambers, one at the side of the north gate facing toward the south; one at the side of the south gate
facing toward the north.
40:45 祂对我说，这朝南的屋子是为看守殿宇的祭司；
And He said to me, This chamber that faces toward the south is for the priests, the keepers of the charge of the house;
40:46 那朝北的屋子是为看守祭坛的祭司。这些祭司是利未人中撒督的子孙，近前来事奉耶和华的。
And the chamber that faces toward the north is for the priests, the keepers of the charge of the altar. These are the sons of Zadok, who come near to Jehovah to
minister to Him from among the sons of Levi.
40:47 祂又量内院，长一百肘，宽一百肘，是见方的；祭坛在殿前。
And He measured the court, a square, one hundred cubits long and one hundred cubits wide; and the altar was in front of the house.
40:48 于是祂带我到殿前的廊子，量廊子的墙柱，这面厚五肘，那面厚五肘；门宽十四肘，门两旁，这边另加三肘，那边另加三肘。
Then He brought me to the porch of the house and measured each post of the porch, five cubits on this side and five cubits on that side; and the width of the gate
was fourteen cubits, including the side indents in the gate, three cubits on this side and three cubits on that side.
40:49 廊子长二十肘，宽十二肘，上廊子有十层台阶；靠近墙柱又有柱子，这边一根，那边一根。
The length of the porch was twenty cubits and the width twelve cubits, and ten steps led up to it; and there were pillars by the posts, one on this side and another
on that side.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 41 章
41:1 祂带我到殿那里量墙柱，这面厚六肘，那面厚六肘，是墙柱的厚度。
And He brought me to the temple and measured the posts, six cubits wide on one side and six cubits wide on the other side was the width of the post.
41:2 门口宽十肘，门两旁，这边五肘，那边五肘。祂量殿，长四十肘，宽二十肘。
And the width of the entrance was ten cubits, and the sides of the entrance were five cubits on one side and five cubits on the other side. And He measured its
length, forty cubits, and the width, twenty cubits.
41:3 祂到内殿量门的墙柱，各厚二肘；门口宽六肘，门两旁各宽七肘。
Then He went into the inner temple and measured each post of the entrance, two cubits; and the entrance, six cubits; and the width beside the entrance, seven
cubits.
41:4 祂量内殿，长二十肘，宽二十肘，在外殿前面；祂对我说，这是至圣所。
And He measured its length, twenty cubits, and the width, twenty cubits, before the outer temple; and He said to me, This is the Holy of Holies.
41:5 祂又量殿墙，厚六肘；围着殿三面有旁屋，各宽四肘。
Then He measured the wall of the house, six cubits thick; and the width of every side chamber, four cubits, all around the house on every side.
41:6 旁屋有三层，层叠而上，每层排列三十间；旁屋的梁木搁在殿墙坎上，免得梁木插入殿墙。
And the side chambers were in three stories, one over another, with thirty units in each story; and they extended to the wall, which the house had for the side
chambers all around to be supports, so that there would not be supports inserted into the wall of the house.
41:7 这围殿的旁屋越上越宽；因旁屋围殿悬叠而上，所以越上越宽；从下一层，由中一层，到上一层，乃是如此。
And the side chambers that went around the house became wider as they went up by stories. Because the surrounding of the house increased upward around
the house, therefore the house had width upward; and so one went up from the lowest story to the highest through the middle story.
41:8 我又见围着殿有高台，就是旁屋的根基，高足一苇，就是六大肘。
I also saw that the house had a raised platform all around; the foundations of the side chambers were a full reed of six long cubits.
41:9 旁屋的外墙厚五肘；旁屋之外还有余地，乃属于殿。
The thickness of the outer wall of the side chambers was five cubits; and space that was left alongside the side chambers belonged to the house.
827
41:10 在旁屋与对面的房屋中间有空地，围绕着殿，宽二十肘。
And between the chambers and the house was a width of twenty cubits all around the house on every side.
41:11 旁屋的门都向余地，一门向北，一门向南；周围的余地宽五肘。
And the entrances of the side chambers were toward the space that was left, one entrance toward the north and another entrance toward the south; and the
width of the place that was left was five cubits all around.
41:12 在西面那空地之后有房子，宽七十肘；房子的墙四围厚五肘，房子长九十肘。
And the building that was in front of the separate place at the side toward the west was seventy cubits wide; and the wall of the building was five cubits thick all
around, and its length ninety cubits.
41:13 这样，祂量殿，长一百肘；又量后面那空地和那房子并墙，共长一百肘；
So He measured the house, a hundred cubits long; and the separate place at the back and the building with its walls, a hundred cubits long;
41:14 殿的前面和那向东的空地，宽一百肘。
And the width of the front of the house and of the separate place toward the east, a hundred cubits.
41:15 祂量空地后面的那房子，(空地是在殿后面，)并这边与那边的楼廊，共长一百肘。外殿、内殿、院廊、
And He measured the length of the building before the separate place, which was behind it, and its galleries on one side and on the other side, a hundred cubits.
And the outer temple, the inner temple, the porches of the court,
41:16 过道、严紧的窗棂、并对着过道周围旁屋的三层楼廊，从地面到窗，(窗都有窗棂，)全都镶上木板，
The thresholds, the latticed windows, and the galleries of the surrounding side chambers with their three stories, opposite the threshold, were paneled with wood
all around, even from the ground to the windows (now the windows were latticed),
41:17 直到门以上，内殿和外殿都是如此。内外四围的墙壁，都按尺寸，
To the top of the entrance, both in the inner house and outside. And on all the walls all around inside and outside, by measurement,
41:18 雕刻了基路伯和棕树。每二基路伯中间有一棵棕树，每基路伯有二脸，
Were both carved cherubim and palm trees. And a palm tree was between two cherubim, and every cherub had two faces,
41:19 这边有人脸向着棕树，那边有狮子脸向着棕树；殿内周围的雕刻都是如此。
So there was the face of a man toward the palm tree on one side and the face of a lion toward the palm tree on the other side. So it was carved in and around
the whole house.
41:20 从地面到门以上，都雕刻了基路伯和棕树，殿墙也是这样。
From the ground to the top of the entrance cherubim and palm trees were carved, even on the wall of the temple.
41:21 殿的门柱是方的。至圣所的前面有一物件，样子好像
The temple doorposts were squared. And at the front of the sanctuary was something in appearance like the appearance of
41:22 木坛，高三肘，长二肘；坛角、坛面和四旁，都是木头作的。祂对我说，这是耶和华面前的桌子。
A wooden altar, three cubits high, and its length two cubits; and its corners, its length, and its walls were made of wood. And He said to me, This is the table that
is before Jehovah.
41:23 殿和至圣所的门各有两扇。
Now the temple and the sanctuary had double doors.
41:24 每扇分两扇，这两扇是摺叠的，这边门分两扇，那边门也分两扇。
And the double doors had two swinging leaves, two leaves for one door and two leaves for the other.
41:25 殿的这些门扇上雕刻着基路伯和棕树，与那些雕刻在墙上的一样。在外边门廊前面有木槛。
And carved on these, on the doors of the temple, were cherubim and palm trees, just like those carved on the walls. And there was a threshold of wood upon the
front of the porch outside.
41:26 门廊这边与那边都有严紧的窗棂和棕树，殿的旁屋和槛也是这样。
And there were latticed windows and palm trees on either side, on the sides of the porch, the side chambers of the house, and the thresholds.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 42 章
42:1 祂带我出来向北，到外院，又带我进入圣屋；这圣屋毗连着空地，也毗连 那朝北的房子。
Then He brought me out into the outer court the way toward the north, and He brought me into the chamber that was adjacent to the separate place and which
was adjacent to the building toward the north.
42:2 这圣屋长一百肘，有向北的门，屋宽五十肘。
The length of the side of the northern entrance was a hundred cubits, and the width was fifty cubits.
42:3 对着内院那二十肘宽之空地，又对着外院的铺石地，在第三层楼上，有楼廊对着楼廊。
Adjacent to the twenty-cubit space of the inner court and adjacent to the pavement of the outer court was one gallery on top of another gallery in three stories.
42:4 在圣屋前有一条夹道，宽十肘，路长一百肘；房门都向北。
And before the chambers on the inside was a walkway of ten cubits' width, a way of one hundred cubits; and their entrances were toward the north.
42:5 上层圣屋因为楼廊占去些地方，所以比中下两层窄些。
Now the upper chambers were narrower, for the galleries took more space away from these than from the lower and the middle stories in the building.
42:6 因为圣屋有三层，却无柱子，不像外院的屋子有柱子；所以上层比中下两层更窄。
For they were arranged in three stories, and they did not have pillars like the pillars of the courts; therefore the upper story was set back from the ground more
than the lower and middle stories .
42:7 沿着圣屋有外墙，向着外院，在圣屋前面，长五十肘。
There was also an outside wall beside the chambers, toward the outer court in front of the chambers; its length was fifty cubits.
42:8 那些靠着外院的圣屋长五十肘，那些面对着殿的长一百肘。
For the length of the chambers that were in the outer court was fifty cubits, while those facing the temple were a hundred cubits.
42:9 在这些圣屋下层，东面有进入之处，可以从外院进入其中。
And at the foot of these chambers was an entrance on the east side to enter them from the outer court,
42:10 向南沿着内院墙的宽度有圣屋，在空地旁边，也在那朝北的房子旁边，
828
By the breadth of the wall of the court to the south, beside the separate place and beside the building, there were chambers,
42:11 圣屋前有夹道。这些圣屋的样子好像北边圣屋的样子，长宽一样；出入之处与北屋门的样式相同。
With a way before them. Their appear ance was like the appearance of the chambers which were toward the north; just as their length, so also was their width;
and all their exits were according to both their arrangements and their entrances.
42:12 正在墙前、夹道的开头，向东有入口可以进入，那就是向南圣屋的入口。
So the entrances of the chambers that were toward the south were entered through an entrance toward the east at the head of the corresponding way, directly
beside the wall.
42:13 祂对我说，在空地旁边的南屋和北屋，都是圣屋；亲近耶和华的祭司当在那里吃至圣的物，也当在那里放至圣的物，就是素祭、赎罪祭和赎愆祭，
因那地方是圣别的。
Then He said to me, The north chambers and the south chambers which are beside the separate place are holy chambers, where the priests who are near to
Jehovah shall eat the most holy things. There they put down the most holy things, the meal offering, the sin offering, and the trespass offering, for the place is
holy.
42:14 祭司进去供职，出圣所的时候，不可直出到外院，但要在圣屋放下他们穿着供职的衣服，因为是圣衣。他们要穿上别的衣服，才可以接近属民的地
方。
When the priests enter, they shall not go out of the holy place into the outer court, but they shall put down their garments in which they have ministered there,
because they are holy. And they shall put on other garments and approach the area designated for the people.
42:15 祂量完了内殿，就带我出朝东的门，量院的四围。
Now when He had finished measuring the inner house, He brought me out through the gate which faces toward the east and measured it all around.
42:16 祂用量度的苇子量四围，量东面五百苇，
He measured on the east side with the measuring reed five hundred reeds, with the measuring reed all around.
42:17 用量度的苇子量四围，量北面五百苇，
He measured on the north side five hundred reeds with the measuring reed all around.
42:18 用量度的苇子量南面五百苇，
He measured on the south side five hundred reeds with the measuring reed.
42:19 又转到西面，用量度的苇子量五百苇。
He turned to the west side and measured five hundred reeds with the measuring reed.
42:20 祂量四面，四围有墙，长五百苇，宽五百苇，为要分别圣地与俗地。
He measured it on four sides. It had a wall all around, the length five hundred cubits and the width five hundred cubits, to make a separation between what was
holy and what was common.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 43 章
43:1 以后，祂带我到一座门，就是朝东的门。
Then He brought me to the gate, that is, the gate that faces toward the east.
43:2 以色列神的荣光从东方的路而来，祂的声音如同多水的声音，地就因祂的荣耀发光。
And the glory of the God of Israel was there, coming from the way of the east, and His voice was like the sound of many waters, and the earth was illuminated
with His glory.
43:3 其状如同我所见过的异象，就是如同祂来灭城时我所见的异象；那异象如同我在迦巴鲁河边所见的异象；我就面伏于地。
And it was like the appearance of the vision which I saw, that is, like the vision that I had seen when He came to destroy the city; and the visions were like the
vision that I had seen by the river Chebar. And I fell on my face.
43:4 耶和华的荣光从朝东的门进入殿中。
And the glory of Jehovah came into the house through the gate which faced toward the east.
43:5 灵将我举起，带入内院；正当那时，耶和华的荣光充满了殿。
And the Spirit took me up and brought me into the inner court, and just then the glory of Jehovah filled the house.
43:6 我听见有一位从殿中对我说话，有一人站在我旁边。
And I heard someone speaking to me out of the house, and a man stood beside me.
43:7 祂对我说，人子阿，这是我宝座之处，是我脚掌所踏之处，我要住在这里，在以色列人中间，直到永远。以色列家和他们的君王，必不再以他们的邪
淫，和他们君王葬埋在高处的尸首，玷污我的圣名。
And He said to me, Son of man, this is the place of My throne and the place of the soles of My feet, where I will dwell in the midst of the children of Israel forever.
And the house of Israel will no longer defile My holy name, neither they nor their kings, by their fornication and by their kings' dead bodies on their high places.
43:8 他们安置他们的门槛靠近我的门槛，他们的门框挨近我的门框，他们与我之间仅隔一墙，并且以自己所行可憎的事，玷污了我的圣名；所以我在怒中
灭绝他们。
When they placed their threshold by My threshold and their doorpost beside My doorpost, there was only the wall between Me and them, and they have defiled
My holy name by their abominations which they have committed. Therefore I have consumed them in My anger.
43:9 现在他们当从我面前远除他们的邪淫，和他们君王的尸首，我就住在他们中间直到永远。
Now let them put away their fornication and the dead bodies of their kings far from Me, and I will dwell in their midst forever.
43:10 人子阿，你要将这殿指示以色列家，使他们因自己的罪孽惭愧，也要他们量殿的尺寸。
You, O son of man, describe the house to the house of Israel, that they may feel humiliated because of their iniquities, and let them measure the pattern.
43:11 他们若因自己所行的一切事惭愧，你就将殿的设计、布置、出入之处、全部的设计和一切的定例，就是全部的设计和一切的法则，指示他们，在他
们眼前写下来，使他们谨遵殿的全部设计和一切定例去作。
And if they feel humiliated because of all that they have done, make known to them the design of the house, the arrangement, its exits, its entrances, its whole
design, and all its statutes-indeed its whole design and all its laws; and write them down in their sight, that they may keep its whole design and all its statutes,
and do them.
43:12 以下是殿的法则：殿在山顶四围的全界，乃为至圣。这就是殿的法则。
This is the law of the house: Its entire area on the top of and all around the mountain shall be most holy. Indeed this is the law of the house.
829
43:13 以下量祭坛，是以肘为度。(这肘是一肘零一掌。)底座高一肘，边宽一肘，四围起边高一掌；这是坛的座。
Now these are the measurements of the altar by cubits (the cubit is a cubit and a handbreadth). The bottom shall be a cubit in height, a cubit in depth, and its
surrounding border on its edge a span. Now this is the base of the altar.
43:14 从地上底座的顶到下层磴台的顶，高二肘，边宽一肘；从小磴台到大磴台，高四肘，边宽一肘。
And from the top of the bottom upon the ground to the top of the lower ledge shall be two cubits, and one cubit in depth; and from the lesser ledge to the greater
ledge shall be four cubits, and a cubit in depth.
43:15 坛上的供台，高四肘；有四角从供台向上突起。
And the altar hearth shall be four cubits in height; and from the altar hearth there shall also be four horns projecting upward.
43:16 供台长十二肘，宽十二肘，四面见方。
And the altar hearth shall be twelve cubits long by twelve cubits wide, square on its four sides.
43:17 大磴台长十四肘，宽十四肘，四面见方，四围起边高半肘，底座四围的边宽一肘，台阶朝东。
And the greater ledge shall be fourteen cubits long by fourteen cubits wide on its four sides, and its surrounding border shall be half a cubit, and its bottom shall
be a cubit all around, and its steps shall face east.
43:18 祂对我说，人子阿，主耶和华如此说，建造祭坛，为要在其上献燔祭并洒血，造成的日子，定例如下：
And He said to me, Son of man, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, These are the statutes of the altar to be observed on the day when they make it, for offering up
burnt offerings on it and for sprinkling blood upon it.
43:19 主耶和华说，你要将一只公牛犊作为赎罪祭，给祭司利未人，撒督的后裔，就是那亲近我、事奉我的。
You shall give the Levitical priests who are of the seed of Zadok, who draw near to Me to minister to Me, declares the Lord Jehovah, a bull of the herd for a sin
offering.
43:20 你要取些公牛的血，抹在坛的四角、磴台的四拐角、并四围所起的边上。你要这样洁净坛，为坛遮罪。
And you shall take some of its blood and put it on its four horns, on the four corners of the ledge, and upon the surrounding border. Thus you shall purify it and
make expiation for it.
43:21 你又要将那作赎罪祭的公牛烧在圣所，在殿指定的地方。
You shall also take the bull of the sin offering, and it shall be burnt in the appointed place of the house, outside the sanctuary.
43:22 次日，要将无残疾的公山羊献为赎罪祭；要洁净坛，像用公牛洁净的一样。
And on the second day you shall present a male goat without blemish for a sin offering, and they shall purify the altar, just as they purified it with the bull.
43:23 洁净了坛，就要献一只无残疾的公牛犊，和羊群中一只无残疾的公绵羊；
When you have finished purifying it, you shall present a bull of the herd without blemish and a ram of the flock without blemish.
43:24 要献在耶和华面前；祭司要撒盐在其上，献与耶和华为燔祭。
And you shall present them before Jehovah, and the priests shall throw salt upon them, and they shall offer them up as a burnt offering to Jehovah.
43:25 七日内，每日要预备一只公山羊为赎罪祭，也要预备一只公牛犊，和羊群中的一只公绵羊，都要没有残疾的。
Each day for seven days you shall offer a goat for a sin offering; they shall also offer a bull of the herd and a ram out of the flock without blemish.
43:26 七日内，祭司要为坛遮罪，洁净坛；要这样把坛分别为圣。
Seven days they shall make expiation for the altar and cleanse it, and so consecrate it.
43:27 满了七日，从第八日起，祭司要在坛上献你们的燔祭和平安祭；我必悦纳你们，这是主耶和华说的。
And when they have fulfilled the days, on the eighth day and onward, the priests shall offer your burnt offerings and your peace offerings upon the altar; and I will
accept you, declares the Lord Jehovah.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 44 章
44:1 祂又带我回到圣所朝东的外门；那门关闭了。
Then He brought me back to the outer gate of the sanctuary, which faces east, but it was shut.
44:2 耶和华对我说，这门必须关闭，不可敞开，谁也不可由其中进入；因为耶和华以色列的神已经由其中进入，所以必须关闭。
And Jehovah said to me, This gate will remain shut; it will not be opened, nor will any man enter through it, for Jehovah the God of Israel has entered through it;
therefore it will remain shut.
44:3 至于王，他必按王的位分，坐在其内，在耶和华面前吃饼；他必由这门的廊而入，也必由原路而出。
As for the prince, he will sit in it as a prince to eat food before Jehovah; he will enter through the porch of the gate and go out the same way.
44:4 祂又带我由北门来到殿前；我观看，见耶和华的荣光充满耶和华的殿，我就面伏于地。
Then He brought me through the north gate to the front of the house; and I looked, and just then the glory of Jehovah filled the house of Jehovah, and I fell upon
my face.
44:5 耶和华对我说，人子阿，我对你所说耶和华殿的一切定例和法则，你要放在心上，用眼看，用耳听，并要留心殿宇的入口和圣所的一切出口。
And Jehovah said to me, Son of man, pay attention, and look with your eyes, and listen with your ears to all that I say to you concerning all the statutes of the
house of Jehovah and all its laws; and pay attention to the entrance of the house, with every exit of the sanctuary.
44:6 你要对那悖逆的以色列家说，主耶和华如此说，以色列家阿，你们所行一切可憎的事够了，
And you shall say to the rebellious, to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Enough, O house of Israel, of all your abominations,
44:7 你们把我的食物，就是脂油和血献上的时候，将心未受割礼、肉体也未受割礼的外邦人，领进我的圣所，玷污这圣所，就是我的殿；你们又背了我的
约，在你们一切可憎的事上，加上这一层；
Inasmuch as you have brought in foreigners, uncircumcised in heart and uncircumcised in flesh, to be in My sanctuary, to profane it, My house, when you
presented My bread, the fat and the blood. And in addition to all your abominations, you broke My covenant.
44:8 你们也没有看守我的圣物，却派别人在我的圣所替你们看守我所吩咐你们的。
And you have not kept the charge of My holy things, but you have set your own keepers of My charge in My sanctuary.
44:9 主耶和华如此说，以色列人中的外邦人，就是心未受割礼、肉体也未受割礼的，都不可入我的圣所。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, No foreigner, uncircumcised in heart and uncircumcised in flesh, of any of the foreigners who are among the children of Israel, shall
enter into My sanctuary.
44:10 当以色列人走迷的时候，有利未人远离了我，他们走迷离开我，随从自己的偶像，他们必担当自己的罪孽。
830
But the Levites who went far from Me, when Israel went astray, who went astray from Me after their idols, shall bear their iniquity.
44:11 然而他们必在我的圣所当仆役，照管殿门，在殿中供职；必为百姓宰杀燔祭牲和平安祭牲，必站在百姓面前伺候他们。
Yet they shall minister in My sanctuary, having oversight at the gates of the house and ministering in the house. They shall slaughter the burnt offering and the
sacrifice for the people, and they shall stand before them to minister to them.
44:12 因为这些利未人曾在百姓的偶像前伺候这百姓，成了陷以色列家于罪孽的绊脚石，所以我向他们举手起誓，他们必担当自己的罪孽；这是主耶和华
说的。
Because they ministered to them before their idols and became a stumbling block of iniquity to the house of Israel, therefore I have sworn concerning them,
declares the Lord Jehovah, that they shall bear their iniquity.
44:13 他们不可亲近我，作祭司事奉我，也不可挨近我的任何圣物，就是至圣的物；他们却要担当自己的羞辱和所行可憎的事。
And they shall not come near to Me to serve Me as a priest, nor come near to any of My holy things, to the things that are most holy; but they shall bear their
disgrace and their abominations which they have committed.
44:14 然而我要使他们看守殿宇，办理其中一切的事奉，并作其内一切当作之工。
Yet I will appoint them keepers of the charge of the house, for all its service and for all that will be done in it.
44:15 以色列人走迷离开我的时候，祭司利未人，撒督的子孙，仍看守我的圣所；他们必亲近我，事奉我，并且侍立在我面前，将脂油与血献给我；这是
主耶和华说的。
But the Levitical priests, the sons of Zadok, who kept the charge of My sanctuary when the children of Israel went astray from Me, they shall come near to Me to
minister to Me; and they shall stand before Me to present to Me the fat and the blood, declares the Lord Jehovah,
44:16 他们必进入我的圣所，就近我的桌前事奉我，守我所吩咐的。
It is they who will enter My sanctuary, and it is they who will come near to My table to minister to Me, and they will keep My charge.
44:17 他们进内院门必穿细麻衣，在内院门和殿内供职的时候不可穿羊毛衣服。
And when they enter the gates of the inner court they shall be clothed with linen garments, and no wool will come upon them while they minister in the gates of
the inner court and inside it.
44:18 他们头上要戴细麻布裹头巾，腰间要穿细麻布裤子；不可束上使身体出汗的衣服。
They shall have linen turbans on their heads and have linen trousers over their loins; they shall not gird themselves with anything that causes sweat.
44:19 他们出到外院的百姓那里，当脱下供职的衣服，放在圣屋内，穿上别的衣服，免得因自己的圣衣使百姓成为圣别。
And when they go out into the outer court, into the outer court to the people, they shall take off their garments with which they minister and put them down in the
holy chambers, and they shall put on other garments so that they do not sanctify the people with their garments.
44:20 他们不可剃头，也不可任由发绺长长，只可剪发。
They shall neither shave their heads, nor let their locks grow long; they shall only trim the hair of their heads.
44:21 祭司进内院的时候都不可喝酒。
And no priest shall drink wine when they enter the inner court.
44:22 他们不可娶寡妇或被休的妇人为妻，只可娶以色列家后裔中的处女，或是祭司遗留的寡妇。
And they shall not take as their wives a widow or a divorced woman, but rather they shall take virgins of the seed of the house of Israel or a widow who is the
widow of a priest.
44:23 他们要教导我的民圣俗的分别，又使他们分辨洁净的和不洁净的。
And they shall teach My people the difference between the holy and the profane and cause them to discern between the unclean and the clean.
44:24 有争讼的事，他们应当站立判断；要按我的典章判断。在我一切所定的节期，他们要守我的律法、条例，也要将我的安息日分别为圣。
And in a dispute they shall stand as a judge; according to My ordinances they shall give judgment concerning it. They shall also keep My laws and My statutes in
all My appointed feasts, and they shall sanctify My Sabbaths.
44:25 他们不可挨近死人而玷污自己，只可为父亲、母亲、儿子、女儿、弟兄、或未嫁的姊妹玷污自己。
And they shall not go to any dead person to defile themselves. Only for a father, a mother, a son, a daughter, a brother, or a sister who has had no husband may
they defile themselves.
44:26 祭司得洁净之后，必再为他计算七日。
And after he has been cleansed, they shall number seven days for him.
44:27 当他进内院，进圣所，在圣所中事奉的日子，要献自己的赎罪祭，这是主耶和华说的。
And on the day he enters the sanctuary, into the inner court to minister in the sanctuary, he shall present his sin offering, declares the Lord Jehovah.
44:28 祭司必有产业，我是他们的产业。不可在以色列中给他们基业；我是他们的基业。
And they shall have an inheritance: I am their inheritance. And you shall not give them a possession in Israel-I am their possession.
44:29 素祭、赎罪祭和赎愆祭，他们都可以吃；以色列中一切永献的物都要归他们。
They shall eat the meal offering, the sin offering, and the trespass offering; and every devoted thing in Israel shall be theirs.
44:30 你们所举献的，一切首先初熟之物，和一切的举祭，都要归给祭司。你们也要用初熟的麦子磨面给祭司，好使福分临到你们的家。
And the first of all the firstfruits of everything, and every heave offering of everything, of all your heave offerings, shall be the priests'. You shall also give the priests
the first of your dough to cause a blessing to rest on your house.
44:31 无论是鸟是兽，凡自死的，或是被野兽撕裂的，祭司都不可吃。
The priests shall not eat of anything that dies of itself or is torn by beasts, either a bird or an animal.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 45 章
45:1 你们拈阄分地为业，要将一分作为举祭献给耶和华，乃是那地圣别的一分，长二万五千苇，宽二万苇；这分四围以内，都为圣地。
Moreover when you divide the land for inheritance by lot, you shall offer a heave offering of land to Jehovah, a holy portion of the land; its length shall be twenty-
five thousand reeds long, and its width twenty thousand reeds; it shall be holy within all its surrounding border.
45:2 其中有作为圣所之地，长五百苇，宽五百苇，四面见方，四围再有五十肘为郊野。
From this there will be reserved for the holy place a five hundred reed by five hundred reed square all around, and fifty cubits for its surrounding suburbs.
45:3 要从所量出的这圣地中，量出一分，长二万五千苇，宽一万苇，其中有圣所，是至圣的。
831
You shall also measure from this measurement a length of twenty-five thousand reeds and a width of ten thousand reeds, and in it will be the sanctuary, the
most holy place.
45:4 这是那地圣别的一分，要归与在圣所供职的祭司，就是亲近事奉耶和华的，作为他们房屋的所在，与圣所之圣地。
It is a holy portion of the land; it shall be for the priests, the ministers of the sanctuary, who come near to minister to Jehovah, and it shall be a place for their
houses as well as a holy area for the sanctuary.
45:5 又有一分，长二万五千苇，宽一万苇，要归与在殿中供职的利未人，作为他们的产业，居住的城邑。
And an area twenty-five thousand reeds in length and ten thousand reeds in width shall be for the Levites, the ministers of the house, for their own possession,
for cities to live in.
45:6 也要分定属城的地业，宽五千苇，长二万五千苇，挨着那献为圣别举祭之地，要归以色列全家。
And alongside the holy heave offering you shall grant a possession for the city, five thousand reeds in width and twenty- five thousand reeds in length; it shall be
for the whole house of Israel.
45:7 归王之地要在献为圣别举祭之地和属城之地的两旁，接连那献为圣别举祭之地和属城之地，从西边向西延展，从东边向东延展；从西界到东界，其长
与每支派的分一样。
And you shall set aside for the prince on both sides of the holy heave offering and of the city's possession, adjacent to the holy heave offering and adjacent to the
city's possession, on the west side toward the west and on the east side toward the east. Thus the total length corresponds to one of the tribal portions from the
western border to the eastern border.
45:8 这地在以色列中必归王为业。我所立的王必不再欺压我的民，却要按支派将地给以色列家。
In the land it shall be his possession in Israel. And My princes shall no longer oppress My people, but they shall give the land to the house of Israel according to
their tribes.
45:9 主耶和华如此说，以色列的王阿，够了！你们要除掉强暴和毁坏的事，施行公平和公义，不再勒索我的民；这是主耶和华说的。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Enough! O princes of Israel. Put away violence and destruction, and execute justice and righteousness. Cease from your evicting of
My people, declares the Lord Jehovah.
45:10 你们要用公道的天平、公道的伊法、公道的罢特。
You shall have just balances, a just ephah, and a just bath.
45:11 伊法与罢特大小要一样，罢特可盛贺梅珥的十分之一，伊法也可盛贺梅珥的十分之一，都以贺梅珥的大小为准。
The ephah and the bath shall be of one measure, so that the bath may contain a tenth of a homer, and the ephah a tenth of a homer. Its measure shall be
according to the homer.
45:12 舍客勒是二十季拉；二十舍客勒，二十五舍客勒，十五舍客勒，为你们的弥那。
And the shekel shall be twenty gerahs; twenty shekels, twenty-five shekels, and fifteen shekels shall make up your mina.
45:13 你们当献的举祭乃是这样：一贺梅珥小麦要献一伊法的六分之一，一贺梅珥大麦要献一伊法的六分之一；
This is the heave offering which you shall offer: a sixth of an ephah from a homer of wheat, and a sixth of an ephah from a homer of barley;
45:14 你们献所分定的油，按油的罢特，一柯珥油要献一罢特的十分之一，一柯珥就是十罢特，也就是一贺梅珥；(原来十罢特就是一贺梅珥；)
And a set portion of oil (that is, the bath of oil), a tenth of a bath from the cor, which is ten baths, that is, a homer (for ten baths are a homer);
45:15 从以色列滋润的草场上每二百只羊中，要献一只羊羔；这都可作素祭、燔祭、平安祭，为民遮罪；这是主耶和华说的。
And one lamb out of two hundred from the flock from the well-watered pastures of Israel-for a meal offering, for a burnt offering, and for peace offerings to
make expiation for them, declares the Lord Jehovah.
45:16 此地的民都要奉上这举祭给以色列中的王。
All the people of the land shall join with the prince to contribute to this heave offering in Israel.
45:17 王的本分是在节期、月朔、安息日，就是以色列家一切所定的节期，奉上燔祭、素祭、奠祭。他要预备赎罪祭、素祭、燔祭和平安祭，为以色列家
遮罪。
But it will be the prince's portion to provide the burnt offerings, the meal offerings, and the drink offerings in the feasts, on the new moons, and on the Sabbaths,
in all the appointed feasts of the house of Israel. He shall prepare the sin offering, the meal offering, the burnt offering, and the peace offerings to make expiation
for the house of Israel.
45:18 主耶和华如此说，正月初一日，你要取牛 中一只无残疾的公牛，洁净圣所。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, In the first month, on the first day of the month, you shall take a bull of the herd without blemish, and you shall purify the sanctuary.
45:19 祭司要取些赎罪祭牲的血，抹在殿的门框上，和坛磴台的四拐角上，并内院的门框上。
And the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering and put it upon the doorposts of the house, and upon the four corners of the ledge of the altar, and
upon the doorposts of the gate of the inner court.
45:20 本月初七日，也要为无意中犯罪的和愚蒙犯罪的如此行，为殿遮罪。
And so you shall do on the seventh day of the month for everyone who sins unintentionally and for the simple. So you shall make expiation for the house.
45:21 正月十四日，你们要守逾越节，守节七日，要吃无酵饼。
In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, you shall have the Passover, a feast of seven days; unleavened bread shall be eaten.
45:22 当日，王要为自己和那地的众民预备一只公牛作赎罪祭。
And on that day the prince shall prepare for himself and for all the people of the land a bull for a sin offering.
45:23 这节的七日中，每日他要为耶和华预备无残疾的公牛七只、公绵羊七只为燔祭；每日又要预备公山羊一只为赎罪祭。
And during the seven days of the feast he shall prepare a burnt offering to Jehovah, seven bulls and seven rams without blemish, daily for seven days; and a
male goat daily for a sin offering.
45:24 他也要预备素祭，就是为一只公牛同献一伊法细面，为一只公绵羊同献一伊法细面，每一伊法细面加油一欣。
And he shall prepare a meal offering, an ephah for a bull, an ephah for a ram, and a hin of oil for an ephah.
45:25 七月十五日守节的时候，七日他都要如此行，照逾越节的赎罪祭、燔祭、素祭和油的条例一样。
In the seventh month, on the fifteenth day of the month, at the feast, he shall make the same provision seven days for the sin offering, for the burnt offering, for
the meal offering, and for the oil.
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 46 章
832
46:1 主耶和华如此说，内院朝东的门，在办理事务的六日内必须关闭；惟有在安息日必须敞开，在月朔之日也必须敞开。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, The gate of the inner court that faces east shall be shut the six working days; but on the Sabbath day it shall be opened, and on the
day of the new moon it shall be opened.
46:2 王要从外面经这门的廊进入，站在门框旁边；祭司要为他预备燔祭和平安祭，他就要在门槛那里敬拜，然后出去；这门直到晚上不可关闭。
And the prince shall enter through the porch of the gate from the outside and stand by the doorpost of the gate, and the priests will prepare his burnt offering and
his peace offerings, and he shall worship at the threshold of the gate; then he shall go out, but the gate shall not be shut until the evening.
46:3 在安息日和月朔，那地的民要在这门口，在耶和华面前敬拜。
And the people of the land shall worship at the entrance of that gate before Jehovah on the Sabbaths and on the new moons.
46:4 王在安息日所献与耶和华的燔祭，要用无残疾的羊羔六只，无残疾的公绵羊一只；
And the burnt offering that the prince shall present to Jehovah on the Sabbath day shall be six lambs without blemish and a ram without blemish;
46:5 同献的素祭要为公绵羊献一伊法细面，为羊羔要照他的力量而献，一伊法细面加油一欣。
And the meal offering shall be an ephah for the ram, and the meal offering for the lambs as he is able to give, and a hin of oil for an ephah.
46:6 当月朔之日，要献牛群中无残疾的公牛一只，羊羔六只，公绵羊一只，都要无残疾的。
And on the day of the new moon he shall offer a bull of the herd without blemish, six lambs, and a ram; they shall be without blemish.
46:7 他也要预备素祭，就是为公牛同献一伊法细面，为公绵羊同献一伊法细面，为羊羔要照他力量所及的而献，一伊法细面加油一欣。
And he shall prepare a meal offering, an ephah for the bull and an ephah for the ram, and for the lambs as he can afford, and a hin of oil for an ephah.
46:8 王进入的时候必由这门的廊而入，也必由原路而出。
And when the prince enters, he shall come in through the porch of the gate, and he shall go out the same way.
46:9 在所定的节期，那地的民朝见耶和华的时候，从北门进入敬拜的，必由南门而出；从南门进入的，必由北门而出。不可从所入的门回去，必要直往前
行，由对门而出。
But when the people of the land come before Jehovah at the appointed feasts, whoever enters through the north gate to worship shall go out through the south
gate, and whoever enters through the south gate shall go out through the north gate; he shall not return through the gate by which he came in, but shall go out
straight ahead.
46:10 民进入，王也要在民中进入；民出去，王也要一同出去。
And the prince shall come in among them when they enter, and when they go out, they shall go out together.
46:11 在节期和圣会的日子同献的素祭，要为一只公牛献一伊法细面，为一只公绵羊献一伊法细面，为羊羔照他的力量而献，一伊法细面加油一欣。
And at the feasts and at the appointed feasts the meal offering shall be an ephah for a bull and an ephah for a ram, and for the lambs as he is able to give, and
a hin of oil for an ephah.
46:12 王预备甘心献的燔祭或平安祭，就是向耶和华甘心献的，当有人为他开朝东的门；他就预备自己的燔祭和平安祭，与在安息日所预备的一样。他献
毕就出去，出去之后，当有人将门关闭。
And when the prince prepares a freewill offering, a burnt offering or peace offerings as a freewill offering to Jehovah, someone will open for him the gate that
faces east; and he shall prepare his burnt offering and his peace offerings, as he does on the Sabbath day. Then he shall go out, and someone shall shut the
gate after he has gone out.
46:13 每日，你要预备无残疾一岁的羊羔一只，献与耶和华为燔祭；要每早晨预备。
And you shall provide a lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt offering to Jehovah daily, every morning you shall provide it.
46:14 每早晨也要预备同献的素祭，细面一伊法的六分之一，并油一欣的三分之一，润调细面。这是常献与耶和华的素祭，为永远的定例。
And you shall provide with it a meal offering every morning, a sixth of an ephah and a third of a hin of oil to moisten the fine flour. It is a meal offering to Jehovah
continually, a perpetual statute.
46:15 每早晨要这样预备羊羔、素祭并油为常献的燔祭。
Thus they shall provide the lamb and the meal offering and the oil every morning for a continual burnt offering.
46:16 主耶和华如此说，王若将产业作礼物赐给他的儿子，就成了他儿子的产业；那要属于他的儿子，是他们承受为业的。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, If the prince gives a gift to any of his sons, it is his inheritance. It shall belong to his sons; it is their possession by inheritance.
46:17 倘若王将一分产业作礼物赐给他的臣仆，就成了他臣仆的产业，直到自由之年；然后仍要归回与王。惟独王给儿子的产业，仍归与他的儿子。
But if he gives some of his inheritance as a gift to one of his servants, it shall be his until the year of liberty; then it shall return to the prince. His inheritance shall
remain only for his sons.
46:18 王不可夺取民的产业，以致驱逐他们离开所承受的。他要从自己的地业中，将产业赐给他儿子，免得我的民分散，各人离开所承受的。
Moreover the prince shall not take any of the people's inheritance, casting them out of their own possession. He shall give an inheritance to his sons from his own
possession so that none of My people are scattered away from their possession.
46:19 那带我的，将我从门旁进入之处，领进为祭司预备的圣屋，是朝北的，见后头西边有一个地方。
Then He brought me through the entry, which was at the side of the gate, into the holy chambers for the priests, which face north. And there was a place there, at
the rear toward the west.
46:20 祂对我说，这是祭司煮赎愆祭、赎罪祭，烤素祭的地方，免得带出去到了外院，使百姓成为圣别。
And He said to me, This is the place where the priests shall boil the trespass offering and the sin offering, and where they shall bake the meal offering, so that
they do not bring them out into the outer court, thereby sanctifying the people.
46:21 祂又带我出到外院，使我经过院子的四拐角，见每拐角各有一个院子。
Then He brought me out into the outer court and led me past the four corners of the court; and there in each corner of the court was a court.
46:22 院子四拐角的院子，周围有墙，每院长四十肘，宽三十肘。四拐角院子的尺寸都是一样，
In the four corners of the court there were enclosed courts, forty cubits long and thirty cubits wide. These four enclosed courts in the corners were of one
measurement.
46:23 四个院子周围有墙，环绕四个院子，墙四围下方造有煮肉的地方。
And there was a wall all around them, around all four, and boiling places were made at the base of the walls all around.
46:24 祂对我说，这些是煮肉的房子，殿内服事的人要在这里煮百姓的祭物。
Then He said to me, These are the boiling houses, where those who minister in the house shall boil the sacrifices of the people.
833
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 47 章
47:1 祂带我回到殿门，见水从殿的门槛下流出，往东流去；(原来殿面朝东；)这水从槛下，由殿的南边，在祭坛的南边往下流。
Then He brought me back to the entrance of the house, and there was water flowing out from under the threshold of the house to the east (for the house faced
east); and the water flowed down below the south side of the house, on the south of the altar.
47:2 祂带我出北门，又领我从外面绕到朝东的外门，见水从南边流出。
Then He brought me out by the way of the north gate and led me around on the way outside to the outer gate, on the way to the gate that faces east; and there
the water was running out on the south side.
47:3 那人手拿准绳往东出去的时候，量了一千肘，使我蹚过水，水到踝子骨。
When the man went out to the east with the line in His hand, He measured a thousand cubits; and He led me through the water, water that was to the ankles.
47:4 祂又量了一千肘，使我蹚过水，水就到膝。祂再量了一千肘，使我蹚过水，水便到腰。
Then He measured a thousand cubits and led me through the water, water that was to the knees. Then He measured a thousand cubits and led me through the
water, water that was to the loins.
47:5 祂又量了一千肘，水便成了河，使我不能蹚过；因为水势涨起，成为可洑的水，不可蹚的河。
Then He measured a thousand cubits, and it was a river that I could not pass through; for the water had risen, enough water to swim in, a river that could not be
crossed.
47:6 祂对我说，人子阿，你看见了么？祂就带我回到河边。
And He said to me, Son of man, have you seen this? Then He led me and brought me back along the bank of the river.
47:7 我回到河边的时候，见在河这边与那边的岸上有极多的树木。
And when I returned, there were very many trees on the bank of the river, on one side and on the other.
47:8 祂对我说，这水往东方一带流出，下到亚拉巴，直到海；所发出来的水流入海时，海水就得医治。
Then said He to me, This water flows out toward the eastern region and goes down into the Arabah and goes to the sea; when it flows into the sea, the water of
the sea is healed.
47:9 这河所到之处，凡滋生有生命的动物都必生活，并且这水到了那里，就有极多的鱼。海水得了医治，并且这河所到之处，百物都必生活。
And every living creature which swarms in every place where the river goes shall live, and there will be very many fish, when this water comes there. And the
water of the sea shall be healed, and everything shall live wherever the river comes.
47:10 必有渔夫站在海边，从隐基底直到隐以革莲，都作晒网之处。那鱼各从其类，好像大海的鱼甚多。
And fishermen will stand beside the sea from En-gedi even to En-eglaim; it will be a place for the spreading of nets. Their fish shall be according to their kinds,
like the fish of the Great Sea, very many.
47:11 只是泥泞之地与洼湿之处不得治好，必留为盐地。
But its swamps and its marshes will not be healed; they shall be left for salt.
47:12 在河这边与那边的岸上必生长各类的树木，其果可作食物；叶子不枯干，果子不断绝；每月必结新果子，因为供应树木的水是从圣所流出来的。树
上的果子必作食物，叶子乃为治病。
And on the banks on both sides of the river will grow all kinds of trees for food. Their leaves will not wither, nor will their fruit fail; but they will bring forth new fruit
every month, because the water for them flows out of the sanctuary. And their fruit shall be for food, and their leaves for healing.
47:13 主耶和华如此说，你们要照以下的境界，给以色列十二支派分地为业；约瑟必得两分。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, This is the boundary by which you shall divide up the land as an inheritance for the twelve tribes of Israel; Joseph shall have two
portions.
47:14 你们承受这地为业，要彼此均分；因为我曾起誓要将这地赐与你们的列祖；这地必归你们为业。
And you shall divide it for an inheritance, each one equally with the other, for I swore to give it to your fathers, and this land will fall to you as an inheritance.
47:15 这地的境界乃是如此：北界从大海经希特伦，直到哈马口，往前到西达达；
This shall be the border of the land: on the north side, from the Great Sea by the way of Hethlon, to the entrance of Hamath, and on to Zedad;
47:16 又往比罗他、西伯莲，(西伯莲在大马色与哈马两界之间，)到浩兰边界的哈撒哈提干 。
Berothah, Sibraim (which is between the territory of Damascus and the territory of Hamath), to Hazer-hatticon, which is on the border of Hauran.
47:17 这样，境界从海边往大马色边界上的哈萨以难，北边以哈马为界。这是北界。
Thus the border shall extend from the sea to Hazar-enan on the border of the territory of Damascus, and on the north toward the north is the territory of Hamath.
This is the north side.
47:18 东界在浩兰和大马色之间，基列和以色列地之间，就是约但河，你们要从北界量到东海。这是东界。
And on the east side you shall measure Gilead and the land of Israel, from between Hauran and Damascus and down the Jordan, from the north border to the
eastern sea. This is the east side.
47:19 南界是从他玛到加低斯米利巴的水，延到埃及小河，直到大海。这是南界。
And the south side toward the south, the border shall go from Tamar as far as the waters of Meribah-kadesh, to the brook of Egypt, and to the Great Sea. This is
the south side toward the south.
47:20 西界就是大海，从南界直到哈马口对面。这是西界。
And the west side shall be the Great Sea, from the south border to opposite the entrance of Hamath. This is the west side.
47:21 你们要按着以色列的支派，彼此分这地。
So you shall apportion this land among yourselves according to the tribes of Israel.
47:22 要拈阄分这地为业，归与自己和你们中间寄居的外人，就是在你们中间生养儿女的外人。你们要看他们如同以色列人中所生的一样；他们在以色列
支派中要与你们同得地业。
And you shall divide it by lot for an inheritance among yourselves and among the sojourners who sojourn among you, who bring forth sons among you. And they
shall be to you just like the native among the sons of Israel; they shall be allotted an inheritance with you among the tribes of Israel.
47:23 外人寄居在那一支派中，你们就在那里分给他地业，这是主耶和华说的。
And in whatever tribe the sojourner sojourns, you shall give him his inheritance there, declares the Lord Jehovah.
834
以西结书 Ezekiel 第 48 章
48:1 众支派按名所得之地记在下面：从北边尽头，经希特伦往哈马口，到大马色边界上的哈萨以难，北边靠着哈马，(各支派的地界都从东延到西，)是但
的一分。
Now these are the names of the tribes: From the north end, along the way of Hethlon to the entrance of Hamath, and Hazar-enan on the border of the territory of
Damascus with Hamath to the north (with their sides extending from east to west), Dan, one portion.
48:2 挨着但的地界，从东到西，是亚设的一分。
And alongside the border of Dan, from the east side to the west side, Asher, one portion.
48:3 挨着亚设的地界，从东到西，是拿弗他利的一分。
And alongside the border of Asher, from the east side even to the west side, Naphtali, one portion.
48:4 挨着拿弗他利的地界，从东到西，是玛拿西的一分。
And alongside the border of Naphtali, from the east side to the west side, Manasseh, one portion.
48:5 挨着玛拿西的地界，从东到西，是以法莲的一分。
And alongside the border of Manasseh, from the east side to the west side, Ephraim, one portion.
48:6 挨着以法莲的地界，从东到西，是流便的一分。
And alongside the border of Ephraim, from the east side even to the west side, Reuben, one portion.
48:7 挨着流便的地界，从东到西，是犹大的一分。
And alongside the border of Reuben, from the east side to the west side, Judah, one portion.
48:8 挨着犹大的地界，从东到西，必有你们所当献为举祭的地，宽二万五千苇，从东到西，长短与各分之地相同；圣所要在当中。
And alongside the border of Judah, from the east side to the west side, shall be the heave offering of land which you shall offer, twenty-five thousand reeds in
width, and in length just like one of the portions of the tribes from the east side to the west side; and the sanctuary shall be in its midst.
48:9 你们献与耶和华为举祭的地要长二万五千苇，宽一万苇。
The heave offering that you shall offer to Jehovah shall be twenty-five thousand reeds in length and ten thousand reeds in width.
48:10 这献为圣别举祭的地要归与这些作祭司的，北长二万五千苇，西宽一万苇，东宽一万苇，南长二万五千苇；耶和华的圣所要在当中。
And for these, that is, for the priests, shall be the holy heave offering-on the north twenty-five thousand reeds in length , on the west ten thousand reeds in width,
on the east ten thousand reeds in width, and on the south twenty-five thousand reeds in length; and the sanctuary of Jehovah shall be in its midst.
48:11 这地要归与撒督的子孙中分别为圣的祭司，就是那些守我所吩咐之职责的；当以色列人走迷的时候，他们不像那些利未人走迷了。
This is for the priests who are sanctified from among the sons of Zadok, who have kept My charge, who did not go astray when the children of Israel went astray,
as the Levites went astray.
48:12 这要归与他们，作献为举祭之地中的举祭，是至圣的，挨着利未人的地界。
And it shall be theirs as a heave offering from the heave offering of the land, most holy, alongside the territory of the Levites.
48:13 利未人所得的地要长二万五千苇，宽一万苇，挨着祭司的地界。全长二万五千苇，宽一万苇。
And alongside the territory of the priests, the Levites shall have a portion twenty-five thousand reeds in length and ten thousand reeds in width. The whole length
shall be twenty-five thousand reeds, and its width ten thousand reeds.
48:14 这地任何部分都不可卖，不可换，也不可转让与别人，乃是地的上好部分，因为是归耶和华为圣的。
And they shall not sell or exchange or transfer any of it; it is the firstfruits of the land, for it is holy to Jehovah.
48:15 这二万五千苇前面所剩下五千苇宽之地，要作俗用，作为造城、居住和郊野之地；城要在当中。
And the five thousand reeds remaining of the width, alongside the twenty-five thousand reeds, shall be for common use: for the city, for dwellings, and for
suburbs; and the city shall be in its midst.
48:16 城的尺寸乃是如此：北面四千五百苇，南面四千五百苇，东面四千五百苇，西面四千五百苇。
And these shall be its measurements: the north side four thousand five hundred reeds, the south side four thousand five hundred reeds, on the east side four
thousand five hundred reeds, and the west side four thousand five hundred reeds.
48:17 城必有郊野，向北二百五十苇，向南二百五十苇，向东二百五十苇，向西二百五十苇。
And the city shall have suburbs: two hundred fifty reeds to the north, two hundred fifty reeds to the south, two hundred fifty reeds to the east, and two hundred
fifty reeds to the west.
48:18 靠着那献为圣别举祭之地所剩下的地，东长一万苇，西长一万苇，要与圣别举祭的地相等；其中的出产要作城内工人的食物。
And the remaining length, alongside the holy heave offering, shall be ten thousand reeds to the east and ten thousand reeds to the west, and it shall be
alongside the holy heave offering. And its produce shall be food for those who labor in the city.
48:19 那些来自以色列众支派，在城内作工的，都要耕种这地。
And those who labor in the city, from all the tribes of Israel, shall work it.
48:20 整个献为举祭的地，长二万五千苇，宽二万五千苇；你们要献为圣别举祭的地，连归城的地业，是四方的。
The entire heave offering of land shall be twenty-five thousand reeds by twenty-five thousand reeds. You shall offer the holy heave offering, a square, including
the possession of the city.
48:21 献为圣别举祭的地，连归城的地业，两边所剩下的地要归与王。作举祭之地东边，南北二万五千苇，东至东界，西边南北二万五千苇，西至西界，
挨着各支派的分，都要归王。圣别举祭的地和殿的圣所要在当中。
And what is remaining on both sides of the holy heave offering and of the city's possession shall be for the prince; adjacent to the twenty-five thousand reeds of
the heave offering unto the eastern border, and to the west adjacent to the twenty-five thousand reeds of the heave offering to the western border, alongside the
portions of the tribes , it shall be for the prince. And the holy heave offering and the sanctuary of the house shall be in its midst.
48:22 这要与利未人之地和归城之地有别，在归王之地中间。在犹大和便雅悯两界之间，剩下的地要归与王。
And it shall be distinct from the possession of the Levites and from the possession of the city, being in the midst of what belongs to the prince. The remaining area
lying between the territory of Judah and the territory of Benjamin shall be for the prince.
48:23 论到其余的支派，从东到西，是便雅悯的一分。
And as for the rest of the tribes: from the east side to the west side, Benjamin, one portion.
48:24 挨着便雅悯的地界，从东到西，是西缅的一分。
And alongside the border of Benjamin, from the east side to the west side, Simeon, one portion.
48:25 挨着西缅的地界，从东到西，是以萨迦的一分。
835
And alongside the border of Simeon, from the east side to the west side, Issachar, one portion.
48:26 挨着以萨迦的地界，从东到西，是西布伦的一分。
And alongside the border of Issachar, from the east side to the west side, Zebulun, one portion.
48:27 挨着西布伦的地界，从东到西，是迦得的一分。
And alongside the border of Zebulun, from the east side to the west side, Gad, one portion.
48:28 挨着迦得的地界，南界是从他玛到加低斯米利巴的水，延到埃及小河，直到大海。
And alongside the border of Gad, at the south side to the south, the border shall be from Tamar to the waters of Meribah-kadesh to the brook of Egypt to the
Great Sea.
48:29 这就是你们要拈阄分给以色列支派为业之地，乃是他们所得之分，这是主耶和华说的。
This is the land which you shall divide by lot to the tribes of Israel for an inheritance, and these are their portions, declares the Lord Jehovah.
48:30 出城之处如下：城北面的尺寸是四千五百苇，
And these are the exits of the city: On the north side, which measures four thousand five hundred reeds,
48:31 (城的各门要按以色列支派的名字，)北面有三门，一为流便门，一为犹大门，一为利未门；
(Now the gates of the city shall be according to the names of the tribes of Israel) three gates to the north: the gate of Reuben, one; the gate of Judah, one; the
gate of Levi, one;
48:32 东面四千五百苇，有三门，一为约瑟门，一为便雅悯门，一为但门；
And on the east side, which is four thousand five hundred reeds, another three gates: the gate of Joseph, one; the gate of Benjamin, one; the gate of Dan, one;
48:33 南面的尺寸是四千五百苇，有三门，一为西缅门，一为以萨迦门，一为西布伦门；
And on the south side, which measures four thousand five hundred reeds, another three gates: the gate of Simeon, one; the gate of Issachar, one; the gate of
Zebulun, one;
48:34 西面四千五百苇，有三门，一为迦得门，一为亚设门，一为拿弗他利门。
On the west side, which is four thousand five hundred reeds, their three gates: the gate of Gad, one; the gate of Asher, one; the gate of Naphtali, one.
48:35 城四围共一万八千苇，从那日起，这城的名字必称为耶和华的所在。
It shall be eighteen thousand reeds all around, and the name of the city from that day shall be, Jehovah Is There.