15. 以斯拉记 Ezra
以斯拉记 Ezra 第 1 章
1:1 波斯王古列元年，耶和华为要成就祂藉耶利米口所说的话，就激动波斯王古列的灵，使他通告全国，下诏书说，
Now in the first year of Cyrus the king of Persia, so that the word of Jehovah by the mouth of Jeremiah might be accomplished, Jehovah stirred up the spirit of
Cyrus the king of Persia; and he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom and put it also in writing, saying,
1:2 波斯王古列如此说，耶和华天上的神已将地上万国赐给我，又嘱咐我在犹大的耶路撒冷为祂建造殿宇。
Thus says Cyrus the king of Persia, All the kingdoms of the earth has Jehovah the God of heaven given to me; and He has charged me to build Him a house in
Jerusalem, which is in Judah.
1:3 你们中间凡作祂子民的，可以上犹大的耶路撒冷，建造在耶路撒冷之耶和华以色列神的殿；(祂是神；)愿这人的神与他同在。
Whoever there is among you of all His people, may his God be with him; and let him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and let him build the house of
Jehovah the God of Israel-He is God-who is in Jerusalem.
1:4 凡余剩的人，无论寄居何处，那处的人要用金银、财物、牲畜支助他，另外也要为在耶路撒冷神的殿，甘心献上礼物。
And everyone who is left, in whatever place he sojourns, let the men of his place support him with silver and with gold and with goods and with cattle, besides
the freewill offering for the house of God, which is in Jerusalem.
1:5 于是，犹大和便雅悯的宗族首领、祭司、利未人，就是一切被神激动他灵的人，都起来要上去建造在耶路撒冷耶和华的殿。
Then the heads of the fathers' houses of Judah and Benjamin and the priests and the Levites rose up, even everyone whose spirit God had stirred up to go up to
build the house of Jehovah, which is in Jerusalem.
1:6 他们四围的人就拿银器、金子、财物、牲畜、宝物帮助他们，另外还有各样甘心献的礼物。
And all those around them strengthened their hands with vessels of silver, with gold, with goods, and with cattle and with precious things, besides all that was
offered willingly.
1:7 古列王也将耶和华殿的器皿拿出来，这些器皿是尼布甲尼撒从耶路撒冷拿出来，放在自己神之庙中的。
Also King Cyrus brought out the vessels of the house of Jehovah, which Nebuchadnezzar had brought out from Jerusalem and had put in the house of his gods;
1:8 波斯王古列派库官米提利达将这些器皿拿出来，点交给犹大的首领设巴萨。
And Cyrus the king of Persia had them brought out by the hand of Mithredath the treasurer and had them enumerated to Sheshbazzar the prince of Judah.
1:9 器皿的数目记在下面：金盘三十个，银盘一千个，刀二十九把，
And this was their number: thirty gold dishes, one thousand silver dishes, twenty-nine knives,
1:10 金碗三十个，次等银碗四百一十个，别样的器皿一千件。
Thirty gold bowls, four hundred ten silver bowls of a different kind, and one thousand other vessels.
1:11 金银器皿共有五千四百件。被掳的人从巴比伦被带上耶路撒冷的时候，设巴萨将这一切都带上来。
There were five thousand four hundred vessels of gold and silver in all. Sheshbazzar brought up all of them with those of the captivity who were brought up from
Babylon to Jerusalem.
以斯拉记 Ezra 第 2 章
2:1 从前被巴比伦王尼布甲尼撒迁徙到巴比伦犹大省的人，现在他们的子孙从被掳到之地上到耶路撒冷和犹大，各归本城，这些人记在下面。
Now these were the children of the province who went up out of the captivity of those who had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon
had carried away to Babylon, and who returned to Jerusalem and Judah, each man to his city.
2:2 他们是同着所罗巴伯、耶书亚、尼希米、西莱雅、利来雅、末底改、必珊、米斯拔、比革瓦伊、利宏、巴拿回来的。以色列民中男子的数目记在下面：
These came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of
Israel:
2:3 巴录的子孙二千一百七十二名；
The children of Parosh, two thousand one hundred seventy-two.
2:4 示法提雅的子孙三百七十二名；
The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy-two.
2:5 亚拉的子孙七百七十五名；
The children of Arah, seven hundred seventy-five.
2:6 巴哈摩押的子孙，属耶书亚和约押子孙的，二千八百一十二名；
The children of Pahath-moab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand eight hundred twelve.
2:7 以拦的子孙一千二百五十四名；
The children of Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four.
2:8 萨土的子孙九百四十五名；
The children of Zattu, nine hundred forty-five.
2:9 萨改的子孙七百六十名；
The children of Zaccai, seven hundred sixty.
2:10 巴尼的子孙六百四十二名；
The children of Bani, six hundred forty-two.
2:11 比拜的子孙六百二十三名；
The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty-three.
2:12 押甲的子孙一千二百二十二名；
The children of Azgad, one thousand two hundred twenty-two.
2:13 亚多尼干的子孙六百六十六名；
The children of Adonikam, six hundred sixty-six.
2:14 比革瓦伊的子孙二千零五十六名；
470
The children of Bigvai, two thousand fifty-six.
2:15 亚丁的子孙四百五十四名；
The children of Adin, four hundred fifty-four.
2:16 亚特的子孙，属希西家子孙的，九十八名；
The children of Ater, of Hezekiah, ninety-eight.
2:17 比赛的子孙三百二十三名；
The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty-three.
2:18 约拉的子孙一百一十二名；
The children of Jorah, one hundred twelve.
2:19 哈顺的子孙二百二十三名；
The children of Hashum, two hundred twenty-three.
2:20 吉罢珥人九十五名；
The children of Gibbar, ninety-five.
2:21 伯利恒人一百二十三名；
The children of Bethlehem, one hundred twenty-three.
2:22 尼陀法人五十六名；
The men of Netophah, fifty-six.
2:23 亚拿突人一百二十八名；
The men of Anathoth, one hundred twenty-eight.
2:24 亚斯玛弗人四十二名；
The children of Azmaveth, forty- two.
2:25 基列耶琳人、基非拉人、比录人共七百四十三名；
The children of Kiriath-arim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred forty- three.
2:26 拉玛人和迦巴人共六百二十一名；
The children of Ramah and Geba, six hundred twenty-one.
2:27 默玛人一百二十二名；
The men of Michmas, one hundred twenty-two.
2:28 伯特利人和艾人共二百二十三名；
The men of Bethel and Ai, two hundred twenty-three.
2:29 尼波人五十二名；
The children of Nebo, fifty-two.
2:30 末必人一百五十六名；
The children of Magbish, one hundred fifty-six.
2:31 另一个以拦的子孙一千二百五十四名；
The children of the other Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four.
2:32 哈琳的子孙三百二十名；
The children of Harim, three hundred twenty.
2:33 罗德人、哈第人、阿挪人共七百二十五名；
The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty-five.
2:34 耶利哥人三百四十五名；
The children of Jericho, three hundred forty-five.
2:35 西拿人三千六百三十名。
The children of Senaah, three thousand six hundred thirty.
2:36 祭司的数目记在下面：耶书亚家耶大雅的子孙九百七十三名；
The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy-three.
2:37 音麦的子孙一千零五十二名；
The children of Immer, one thousand fifty-two.
2:38 巴施户珥的子孙一千二百四十七名；
The children of Pashhur, one thousand two hundred forty-seven.
2:39 哈琳的子孙一千零一十七名。
The children of Harim, one thousand seventeen.
2:40 利未人有耶书亚和甲篾的子孙，属何达威雅子孙的，共七十四名。
The Levites: the children of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the children of Hodaviah, seventy-four.
2:41 歌唱的有亚萨的子孙一百二十八名。
The singers: the children of Asaph, one hundred twenty-eight.
2:42 守门者的子孙有沙龙的子孙、亚特的子孙、达们的子孙、亚谷的子孙、哈底大的子孙、朔拜的子孙，共一百三十九名。
The children of the gatekeepers: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, the children of
Shobai, in all one hundred thirty- nine.
2:43 殿役有西哈的子孙、哈苏巴的子孙、答巴俄的子孙、
The temple servants: the children of Ziha, the children of Hasupha, the children of Tabbaoth,
2:44 基绿的子孙、西亚的子孙、巴顿的子孙、
The children of Keros, the children of Siaha, the children of Padon,
2:45 利巴拿的子孙、哈迦巴的子孙、亚谷的子孙、
The children of Lebanah, the children of Hagabah, the children of Akkub.
2:46 哈甲的子孙、萨母莱的子孙、哈难的子孙、
The children of Hagab, the children of Shamlai, the children of Hanan,
471
2:47 吉德的子孙、迦哈的子孙、利亚雅的子孙、
The children of Giddel, the children of Gahar, the children of Reaiah,
2:48 利汛的子孙、尼哥大的子孙、迦散的子孙、
The children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda, the children of Gazzam,
2:49 乌撒的子孙、巴西亚的子孙、比赛的子孙、
The children of Uzza, the children of Paseah, the children of Besai,
2:50 押拿的子孙、米乌宁的子孙、尼普心的子孙、
The children of Asnah, the children of Meunim, the children of Nephisim,
2:51 巴卜的子孙、哈古巴的子孙、哈忽的子孙、
The children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur,
2:52 巴洗律的子孙、米希大的子孙、哈沙的子孙、
The children of Bazluth, the children of Mehida, the children of Harsha,
2:53 巴柯的子孙、西西拉的子孙、答玛的子孙、
The children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Temah,
2:54 尼细亚的子孙、哈提法的子孙。
The children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha.
2:55 所罗门仆人的子孙有琐太的子孙、琐斐列的子孙、比路大的子孙、
The children of Solomon's servants: the children of Sotai, the children of Hassophereth, the children of Peruda,
2:56 雅拉的子孙、达昆的子孙、吉德的子孙、
The children of Jaalah, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel,
2:57 示法提雅的子孙、哈替的子孙、玻黑列哈斯巴音的子孙、亚米的子孙。
The children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth- hazzebaim, the children of Ami.
2:58 殿役和所罗门仆人的子孙共三百九十二名。
All the temple servants and the children of Solomon's servants were three hundred ninety-two.
2:59 从特米拉、特哈萨、基绿、押但、音麦上来，却不能指明他们的宗族和世系是不是以色列人的，记在下面：
And these were those who went up from Tel-melah, Tel-harsha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer; but they could not give evidence of their fathers' houses nor their
descendants, whether they were of Israel:
2:60 第来雅的子孙、多比雅的子孙、尼哥大的子孙，共六百五十二名。
The children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of Nekoda, six hundred fifty-two.
2:61 祭司的子孙中，有哈巴雅的子孙、哈哥斯的子孙、巴西莱的子孙；巴西莱因娶了基列人巴西莱的女儿为妻，所以按其名叫巴西莱。
And of the children of the priests: the children of Hobaiah, the children of Hakkoz, the children of Barzillai, who took a wife from among the daughters of Barzillai
the Gileadite and was called by their name.
2:62 这些人在家谱的记载中寻查自己的记录，却寻不着，因此算为不洁，不准供祭司的职任。
These sought their registry among those who were enrolled by genealogy, but they were not found; therefore they were considered defiled and were excluded
from the priesthood.
2:63 省长对他们说，不可吃至圣的物，直到有用乌陵和土明决疑的祭司兴起来。
And the governor told them that they should not eat of the most holy things until a priest stood up with Urim and Thummim.
2:64 全会众共有四万二千三百六十名。
The whole assembly together was forty-two thousand three hundred sixty,
2:65 此外，还有他们的仆婢七千三百三十七名，又有歌唱的男女二百名。
Besides their male servants and their female servants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty- seven; and they had two hundred male singers
and female singers.
2:66 他们有马七百三十六匹，骡二百四十五匹，
Their horses were seven hundred thirty-six; their mules, two hundred forty-five;
2:67 骆驼四百三十五只，驴六千七百二十匹。
Their camels, four hundred thirty- five; their donkeys, six thousand seven hundred-twenty.
2:68 有些宗族的首领到了耶路撒冷耶和华殿的地方，便为神的殿甘心献上礼物，要在原址把殿重新建立起来。
And some of the heads of fathers' houses, when they came to the house of Jehovah, which is in Jerusalem, offered willingly for the house of God to restore it on
its foundation.
2:69 他们按力量捐入工程库的有金子六万一千达利克，银子五千弥拿，并祭司的礼服一百件。
The priests gave to the treasury of the work, according to their ability, sixty- one thousand darics of gold and five thousand minas of silver and one hundred
priestly garments.
2:70 于是祭司、利未人、民中的一些人、歌唱的、守门的、殿役、并以色列众人，都住在自己的城里。
So they and the Levites and some of the people and the singers and the gatekeepers and the temple servants and all Israel dwelt in their cities.
以斯拉记 Ezra 第 3 章
3:1 到了七月，以色列人住在各城；那时他们如同一人，聚集在耶路撒冷。
And when the seventh month came, and the children of Israel were in the cities, the people gathered together as one man to Jerusalem.
3:2 约萨达的儿子耶书亚和他的弟兄众祭司，并撒拉铁的儿子所罗巴伯与他的弟兄，都起来建造以色列神的坛，要照神人摩西律法书上所写的，在坛上献
燔祭。
Then Jeshua the son of Jozadak rose up, along with his brothers the priests and Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and his brothers, and they built the altar of the
God of Israel to offer burnt offerings upon it, as it is written in the law of Moses the man of God.
3:3 他们因惧怕邻近诸地的民，就在原有的基础上立坛，又在其上向耶和华献燔祭，就是早晚的燔祭。
472
And they set up the altar upon its bases, for fear was upon them because of the peoples of the lands; and they offered burnt offerings on it to Jehovah, burnt
offerings of the morning and evening.
3:4 他们又照律法书上所写的守住棚节，日日按数照例献上每日所当献的燔祭；
And they held the Feast of Tabernacles, as it is written, and offered the daily burnt offerings by number according to the ordinance as the duty of every day
required;
3:5 其后献常献的燔祭，并在月朔与耶和华所定一切分别为圣的节期献祭，又向耶和华献各人的甘心祭。
And afterward they offered the continual burnt offering and the offerings of the new moons and of all the appointed feasts of Jehovah that were sanctified and of
everyone who offered willingly a freewill offering to Jehovah.
3:6 从七月初一日起，他们就向耶和华献燔祭；
From the first day of the seventh month they began to offer up burnt offerings to Jehovah; however the foundation of the temple of Jehovah had not yet been laid.
3:7 但耶和华殿的根基尚未立定。他们又将银子给石匠、木匠，把粮食、饮料、油给西顿人和推罗人，使他们将香柏树从利巴嫩运到海里，浮海运到约帕，
是照波斯王古列所允准的。
They also gave money to the stone hewers and to the carpenters, and food and drink and oil to the Sidonians and to the Tyrians, to bring cedar trees from
Lebanon to the sea at Joppa according to the authorization granted them by Cyrus the king of Persia.
3:8 众人到了耶路撒冷神殿的地方，第二年二月，撒拉铁的儿子所罗巴伯，约萨达的儿子耶书亚，和他们其余的弟兄，就是祭司和利未人，并一切被掳归
回耶路撒冷的人，都开工建造；他们派利未人，从二十岁以上的，督理建造耶和华殿的工作。
Now in the second year after they came to the house of God at Jerusalem, in the second month, Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and Jeshua the son of Jozadak
and the rest of their brothers, the priests and the Levites, and all those who came out of captivity to Jerusalem began by appointing the Levites, from twenty years
old and upward, to have oversight over the work of the house of Jehovah.
3:9 于是犹大的子孙，就是耶书亚和他的子孙与弟兄，甲篾和他的子孙，另有利未人希拿达的子孙与弟兄，都起来如同一人，督理在神殿作工的人。
Then Jeshua stood with his sons and his brothers, as one man, with Kadmiel and his sons, the sons of Judah, and with the sons of Henadad and their sons and
their brothers the Levites, to have oversight over the workmen in the house of God.
3:10 匠人立耶和华殿根基的时候，百姓首领所派的祭司穿着礼服吹号，亚萨的子孙利未人敲钹，照以色列王大卫所指定的，都站着赞美耶和华。
And when the builders laid the foundation of the temple of Jehovah, they set the priests in their apparel with trumpets and the Levites, the sons of Asaph, with
cymbals, to praise Jehovah according to the directions of David the king of Israel.
3:11 他们彼此唱和，赞美称谢耶和华说，祂本为善，祂向以色列人永施慈爱。他们赞美耶和华的时候，众民大声呼喊，因耶和华殿的根基立定了。
And they sang to one another in praising and giving thanks to Jehovah, saying, For He is good, for His lovingkindness is forever upon Israel. And all the people
shouted with a great shout when they praised Jehovah, because the foundation of the house of Jehovah was laid.
3:12 然而有许多祭司、利未人、宗族的首领，就是见过先前的殿的老年人，现在亲眼看见立这殿的根基，便大声哭号；也有许多人大声欢呼，
But many of the priests and Levites and heads of fathers' houses, the old men who had seen the first house, wept with a loud voice when the foundation of this
house was laid before their eyes; and many shouted aloud for joy,
3:13 甚至百姓不能分辨欢呼的声音和哭号的声音；因为众人大声呼喊，声音远处都可听到。
So that the people could not discern the sound of the shout of joy from the sound of the weeping of the people; for the people shouted with a loud shout, and the
sound was heard far away.
以斯拉记 Ezra 第 4 章
4:1 犹大和便雅悯的敌人听见被掳归回的人为耶和华以色列的神建造殿宇，
Now when the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the children of the captivity were building a temple to Jehovah the God of Israel,
4:2 就前来见所罗巴伯和以色列的宗族首领，对他们说，请让我们与你们一同建造；因为我们寻求你们的神，与你们一样；自从亚述王以撒哈顿带我们上
这地的日子以来，我们常常向祂献祭。
They drew near to Zerubbabel and to the heads of fathers' houses and said to them, Let us build with you; for we seek your God as you do, and we have been
sacrificing to Him since the days of Esar- haddon the king of Assyria, who brought us up here.
4:3 但所罗巴伯、耶书亚、和其余以色列的宗族首领对他们说，我们为我们的神建殿，与你们无干，我们自己为耶和华以色列的神协力建造，是照波斯王
古列所吩咐的。
But Zerubbabel and Jeshua and the rest of the heads of fathers' houses of Israel said to them, You have nothing to do with us in building a house to our God; but
we ourselves together will build to Jehovah the God of Israel, as King Cyrus the king of Persia has commanded us.
4:4 那地的民，就在犹大人建造的时候，使他们的手发软，扰乱他们；
Then the people of the land weakened the hands of the people of Judah and troubled them in building.
4:5 从波斯王古列在位的日子，直到波斯王大利乌作王的时候，贿买谋士，破坏他们的计划。
And they hired counselors against them to frustrate their purpose all the days of Cyrus the king of Persia, even until the reign of Darius the king of Persia.
4:6 在亚哈随鲁才登基作王的时候，他们写了诉状，控告犹大和耶路撒冷的居民。
And in the reign of Ahasuerus, in the beginning of his reign, they wrote an accusation against the inhabitants of Judah and Jerusalem.
4:7 亚达薛西在位的日子，比施兰、米特利达、他别、和他们的同僚写奏章给波斯王亚达薛西；奏章是用亚兰文字写的，译为亚兰方言。
And in the days of Artaxerxes, Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel, and the rest of his companions wrote to Artaxerxes the king of Persia; and the script of the letter was
written in Aramaic and translated into Aramaic.
4:8 省长利宏和书记伸帅写了奏章给亚达薛西王，控告耶路撒冷人。
Rehum the chancellor and Shimshai the scribe wrote a letter against Jerusalem to Artaxerxes the king as follows
4:9 那时省长利宏、书记伸帅、和他们的同僚，审判官、官员、他毗拉人、波斯人、以力人、巴比伦人、书珊人，就是以拦人，
(Then Rehum the chancellor, and Shimshai the scribe, and the rest of their companions, the judges, and the officials, the Tarpelites, the Persians, the men of Erech,
the Babylonians, the men of Susa, that is the Elamites,
4:10 以及其余各民族，就是尊大的亚斯那巴所迁移、安置在撒玛利亚城并大河以西其余地方的人，
And the rest of the nations, whom the great and noble Osnappar carried into exile and settled in the city of Samaria and in the rest of the province beyond the
River, wrote. And now
4:11 向王所呈的奏章，誊抄如下：河西的臣民致亚达薛西王。
473
This is the copy of the letter that they sent to him): To Artaxerxes the king, from your servants the men beyond the River. And now
4:12 王该知道，从王那里上来的犹大人，已经到了耶路撒冷我们这里；他们正在重建这反叛恶劣的城，即将把城墙筑完，已经修好了根基。
Let it be known to the king that the Jews who came up from you have come to us to Jerusalem; they are rebuilding the rebellious and evil city and are finishing
the walls and have repaired the foundations.
4:13 如今王该知道，若是这城重建起来，城墙筑完，他们就不再进贡、交课、纳税，终久必使诸王受亏损。
Now let it be known to the king that if this city is rebuilt and the walls are finished, they will not pay tribute, taxes, or tolls; and in the end it will cause damage to
the kings.
4:14 我们既食王家的盐，不该见王受辱，因此上奏禀告于王。
Now because we eat the salt of the palace, and it is not fitting for us to see the king's dishonor, we therefore have sent this letter to inform the king,
4:15 请王考察先王的记录，必可查知这城是悖逆的城，与列王和各省有害；自古以来，常有人在其中行反叛的事，因此这城曾被拆毁。
So that a search may be made in the book of the records of your fathers, and you may find in the book of the records and know that this city is a rebellious city
and one that causes damage to kings and provinces and that they have stirred up sedition within it in times past; for which reason this city was laid waste.
4:16 我们禀告于王，若是这城重建起来，城墙筑完，河西之地王就无分了。
We inform the king that if this city is rebuilt and its walls are finished, then you will have no portion beyond the River.
4:17 那时王下谕达于省长利宏、书记伸帅、和他们的同僚，就是住撒玛利亚并河西其余地方的人，说，愿你们平安。
Then the king sent an answer to Rehum the chancellor and Shimshai the scribe and the rest of their companions who dwelt in Samaria and in the rest of the
province beyond the River: Greetings. And now
4:18 你们所呈的奏章，译文已经在我面前读过了。
The letter which you sent to us has been read before me in translation.
4:19 我命人考察，得知此城古来果然曾背叛诸王，其中常有悖逆反叛的事。
And a decree has been issued by me, and a search has been made; and it was found that this city in times past has risen against kings, and that rebellion and
sedition have been made in it,
4:20 从前也有强大的君王治理耶路撒冷，统管河西全地，人就给他们进贡、交课、纳税。
And that there have been mighty kings over Jerusalem, who have ruled over all the lands beyond the River; and tribute, taxes and tolls were paid to them.
4:21 现在你们要出令叫这些人停工，使这城不得建造，等我降旨。
Now make a decree to stop these men, so that this city is not rebuilt until a decree is made by me.
4:22 你们当谨慎，在这事上不可疏忽；为何容害加重，使王受亏损呢？
And take care not to be negligent in this. Why should damage grow to the detriment of the kings?
4:23 亚达薛西王下谕的誊本，读在利宏和书记伸帅，并他们的同僚面前，他们就急忙往耶路撒冷去见犹大人，用武力强迫他们停工。
Then when the copy of King Artaxerxes's letter was read before Rehum and Shimshai the scribe and their companions, they went in haste to Jerusalem to the
Jews and stopped them by force and power.
4:24 于是，在耶路撒冷神殿的工程就停止了，直停到波斯王大利乌第二年。
So the work of the house of God, which is in Jerusalem, ceased; and it was stopped until the second year of the reign of Darius the king of Persia.
以斯拉记 Ezra 第 5 章
5:1 那时，申言者哈该和易多的孙子撒迦利亚，在临到他们之以色列神的名里，向犹大和耶路撒冷的犹大人申言。
Now the prophets, Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo, prophesied to the Jews who were in Judah and Jerusalem in the name of the God of Israel
who was over them.
5:2 于是撒拉铁的儿子所罗巴伯和约萨达的儿子耶书亚都起来，动手建造在耶路撒冷神的殿，有神的申言者与他们同在，帮助他们。
Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and Jeshua the son of Jozadak rose up and began to build the house of God, which is in Jerusalem; and the prophets of
God were with them, helping them.
5:3 当时河西的总督达乃和示他波斯乃，并他们的同僚来见他们，这样问说，谁降旨让你们建造这殿，修成这墙呢？
At the same time Tattenai the governor beyond the River and Shethar-bozenai and their companions came to them and spoke to them in this way, Who gave
you a decree to build this house and to finish this wall?
5:4 我们便告诉他们，建造这殿宇的人叫什么名字。
Then we told them accordingly what the names of the men were who were constructing this building.
5:5 神的眼目看顾犹大的长老，以致那些人没有叫他们停工，直到呈报于大利乌，得着关于这事的回谕。
But the eye of their God was upon the elders of the Jews, and they did not stop them, until a report went to Darius; and then an answer was returned by letter
concerning it.
5:6 河西的总督达乃和示他波斯乃，并他们的同僚，就是在河西的官员，所呈于大利乌王的奏章，誊抄如下；
This is the copy of the letter that Tattenai the governor beyond the River and Shethar-bozenai and his companions the officials, who were beyond the River, sent
to Darius the king;
5:7 他们呈报于王，报告中写着说，愿大利乌王诸事平安。
They sent a report to him in which was written as follows, To Darius the king, all peace.
5:8 王该知道，我们往犹大省去，到了至大神的殿，这殿是用大石建造的，梁木插入墙内；这工作进行甚为迅速，并且在他们手下亨通。
Let it be known to the king that we went to the province of Judah, to the house of the great God, which is being built with large stones, and timber is being laid in
the walls; and this work is being conducted with diligence and prospers in their hands.
5:9 我们问那些长老说，谁降旨让你们建造这殿，修成这墙呢？
Then we asked those elders, speaking to them in this way, Who gave you a decree to build this house and to finish this wall?
5:10 我们又问他们的名字，要记录他们首领的名字，禀告于王。
We also asked them their names in order to inform you, so that we might write down the names of the men who were at their head.
5:11 他们这样回答说，我们是天地之神的仆人，重建多年前所建造的殿，就是以色列的一位大君王建造完成的。
And they returned us an answer in this way, saying, We are the servants of the God of heaven and earth and are rebuilding the house that was built many years
ago, which a great king of Israel built and finished.
474
5:12 只因我们列祖惹天上的神发怒，神把他们交在迦勒底人巴比伦王尼布甲尼撒的手中，他就拆毁这殿，又将百姓迁徙到巴比伦。
But because our fathers had provoked the God of heaven to anger, He gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, the Chaldean, who
destroyed this house and carried the people away to Babylon.
5:13 然而巴比伦王古列元年，古列王降旨建造神的这殿。
But in the first year of Cyrus the king of Babylon, King Cyrus made a decree to build this house of God.
5:14 神殿的金银器皿，就是尼布甲尼撒从耶路撒冷的殿中取出，带到巴比伦庙里的，古列王从巴比伦庙里取出来，交给他所派为省长的，名叫设巴萨，
And also the gold and silver vessels of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple that was in Jerusalem and brought into the temple of
Babylon, these King Cyrus took out of the temple of Babylon, and they were given to one whose name was Sheshbazzar, whom he had made governor;
5:15 对他说，可以将这些器皿带去，放在耶路撒冷的殿中，让神的殿在原处建造起来。
And he said to him, Take these vessels, go and put them in the temple in Jerusalem, and let the house of God be rebuilt in its place.
5:16 于是这设巴萨来安放耶路撒冷神殿的根基；这殿从那时到如今一直在建造中，尚未完成。
Then the same Sheshbazzar came and laid the foundations of the house of God, which is in Jerusalem; and since that time even until now it has been under
construction and has not yet been finished.
5:17 现在王若以为美，请派人寻查王在巴比伦的宝库，看古列王曾否降旨在耶路撒冷建造神的殿；王对这事喜悦如何，请降旨晓谕我们。
Now therefore if it seems good to the king, let a search be made in the king's treasure house, which is there in Babylon, to see whether it is the case that a decree
was made by King Cyrus for the building of this house of God in Jerusalem; and let the king send his pleasure to us concerning this.
以斯拉记 Ezra 第 6 章
6:1 于是大利乌王降旨，人就在巴比伦存放宝物的典籍库内寻查；
Then Darius the king made a decree, and search was made in the house of the archives, where the treasures were stored in Babylon.
6:2 在亚马他，在玛代省的宫内寻得一卷，其中有记录这样写着：
And a scroll was found at Achmetha, in the palace that is in the province of Media, and on it this was written as a record:
6:3 古列王元年，古列王降旨论到在耶路撒冷神的殿，要建造这殿为献祭之处，建立殿的根基；殿高六十肘，宽六十肘，
In the first year of King Cyrus, King Cyrus made a decree concerning the house of God at Jerusalem: Let the house be built, the place where they offer sacrifices;
and let its foundations be raised, its height being sixty cubits, and its width sixty cubits,
6:4 用三层大石头，一层木头，经费由王库支付；
With three layers of large stones, and one layer of timber; and let the expenses be given out of the king's house.
6:5 并且神殿的金银器皿，就是尼布甲尼撒从耶路撒冷的殿中取出，带到巴比伦的，要归还带到耶路撒冷的殿中，各按原处放在神的殿里。
And also let the gold and silver vessels of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple which is in Jerusalem and brought to Babylon, be
returned and brought again to the temple which is in Jerusalem, to its place; and you shall put them in the house of God.
6:6 现在河西的总督达乃和示他波斯乃，并你们的同僚，就是在河西的官员，你们当远离那里。
Now therefore, Tattenai the governor beyond the River, Shethar-bozenai, and your companions the officials, in the province beyond the River, keep far away from
there.
6:7 不要拦阻神这殿的工作，任凭犹大人的省长和犹大人的长老在原处建造神的这殿。
Leave the work of this house of God alone; let the governor of the Jews and the elders of the Jews build this house of God on its site.
6:8 我又降旨，论到你们向犹大人的这些长老，为建造神的这殿当怎样行，就是从王的资产，从河西的贡物中，给他们拨出充足的经费，免得工程停顿。
Moreover I make a decree concerning what you are to do for these elders of the Jews for the building of this house of God: From the property of the king, even the
tribute of the province beyond the River, expenses are to be given in full to these men that the work not cease.
6:9 他们向天上的神献燔祭所需用的公牛犊、公绵羊、绵羊羔，并所用的麦子、盐、酒、油，都要照耶路撒冷祭司的话，每日供给他们，不得有误；
And whatever is needed, young bulls and rams and lambs, for burnt offerings to the God of heaven; also wheat, salt, wine, and oil, according to the word of the
priests who are in Jerusalem, let it be given to them day by day without fail,
6:10 好叫他们献馨香的祭给天上的神，又为王和王众子的性命祷告。
That they may offer incense to the God of heaven and pray for the life of the king and his sons.
6:11 我再降旨，无论谁更改这命令，必从他房屋中拆出一根梁木，把他举起，钉在其上，并且因这缘故，使他的房屋成为粪堆。
Also I have made a decree that whoever alters this word, timber shall be pulled out from his house, and he shall be lifted up and impaled on it, and his house
shall be made a dunghill on account of this.
6:12 若有任何王和民伸手更改这命令，拆毁在耶路撒冷神的这殿，愿那使自己的名居住在那里的神将他们灭绝。我大利乌降旨，当彻底迅速的遵行。
And may the God who has caused His name to dwell there overthrow any king or people who put forth their hand to alter this or to destroy this house of God,
which is in Jerusalem. I, Darius, have made a decree; let it be carried out with all diligence.
6:13 于是，河西总督达乃和示他波斯乃，并他们的同僚，就照着大利乌王所降的谕旨，彻底迅速的遵行。
Then Tattenai the governor beyond the River, Shethar-bozenai, and their companions, carried out everything with all diligence according to what Darius the king
had sent order to do.
6:14 犹大长老因申言者哈该、和易多的孙子撒迦利亚的申言，就建造这殿，凡事亨通。他们照着以色列神的命令和波斯王古列、大利乌、亚达薛西的旨意，
建造完毕。
And the elders of the Jews built, and they prospered through the prophesying of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo. And they finished building
according to the command of the God of Israel and according to the decree of Cyrus and Darius and Artaxerxes the king of Persia.
6:15 大利乌王在位第六年，亚达月初三日，这殿完成了。
And this house was finished on the third day of the month Adar, which was in the sixth year of the reign of Darius the king.
6:16 以色列人、祭司、利未人、并其余被掳归回的人都欢欢喜喜的行奉献神这殿的礼。
And the children of Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the rest of the children of the captivity, celebrated the dedication of this house of God with joy.
6:17 他们行奉献神这殿的礼，献公牛一百只、公绵羊二百只、绵羊羔四百只，又照以色列支派的数目献公山羊十二只，为以色列众人作赎罪祭；
And they offered for the dedication of this house of God one hundred bulls, two hundred rams, four hundred lambs, and for a sin offering for all Israel, twelve
male goats according to the number of the tribes of Israel.
6:18 且派立祭司按着组别，利未人按着班次，在耶路撒冷事奉神，是照摩西书上所写的。
475
And they set the priests in their courses and the Levites in their divisions for the service of God, which is in Jerusalem, as it is written in the book of Moses.
6:19 正月十四日，被掳归回的人守逾越节。
And the children of the captivity held the Passover on the fourteenth day of the first month.
6:20 原来，祭司和利未人一同自洁，全都洁净了。利未人为被掳归回的众人和他们的弟兄众祭司，并为自己宰逾越节的羊羔。
For the priests and the Levites had purified themselves together; all of them were pure. Then they slaughtered the passover for all the children of the captivity and
for their brothers the priests and for themselves.
6:21 被掳归回的以色列人，和一切从那地外邦人的污秽中把自己分别出来，归附他们，要寻求耶和华以色列神的人，都吃这羊羔，
And the children of Israel who returned from the captivity and all who had separated themselves from the defilement of the nations of the land to join them, to
seek Jehovah the God of Israel, ate the passover
6:22 欢欢喜喜的守除酵节七日；因为耶和华使他们欢喜，又使亚述王的心转向他们，坚固他们的手，作以色列神殿的工程。
And held the Feast of Unleavened Bread seven days with joy; for Jehovah had made them joyful and had turned the heart of the king of Assyria to them, to
strengthen their hands in the work of the house of God, the God of Israel.
以斯拉记 Ezra 第 7 章
7:1 这些事以后，波斯王亚达薛西在位的时候，有个以斯拉，他是西莱雅的儿子，西莱雅是亚撒利雅的儿子，亚撒利雅是希勒家的儿子，
Now after these things, in the reign of Artaxerxes the king of Persia, Ezra the son of Seraiah, the son of Azariah, the son of Hilkiah,
7:2 希勒家是沙龙的儿子，沙龙是撒督的儿子，撒督是亚希突的儿子，
The son of Shallum, the son of Zadok, the son of Ahitub,
7:3 亚希突是亚玛利雅的儿子，亚玛利雅是亚撒利雅的儿子，亚撒利雅是米拉约的儿子，
The son of Amariah, the son of Azariah, the son of Meraioth,
7:4 米拉约是西拉希雅的儿子，西拉希雅是乌西的儿子，乌西是布基的儿子，
The son of Zerahiah, the son of Uzzi, the son of Bukki,
7:5 布基是亚比书的儿子，亚比书是非尼哈的儿子，非尼哈是以利亚撒的儿子，以利亚撒是祭司长亚伦的儿子；
The son of Abishua, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the chief priest;
7:6 这以斯拉从巴比伦上来，他是经学家，精通耶和华以色列神所赐摩西的律法。王赐他一切所求的，是因耶和华他神的手帮助他。
This Ezra went up from Babylon, and he was a scribe skilled in the law of Moses, which Jehovah the God of Israel had given; and the king granted him all his
request according to the hand of Jehovah his God upon him.
7:7 亚达薛西王第七年，也有些以色列人、祭司、利未人、歌唱的、守门的和殿役，上耶路撒冷去。
Some of the children of Israel and some of the priests, and the Levites and the singers and the gatekeepers and the temple servants also went up to Jerusalem in
the seventh year of Artaxerxes the king.
7:8 王第七年五月，以斯拉到了耶路撒冷。
And he came to Jerusalem in the fifth month, which was in the seventh year of the king;
7:9 他在正月初一日，从巴比伦动身上来；因他神美善的手帮助他，五月初一日就到了耶路撒冷。
For on the first day of the first month he began to go up from Babylon, and on the first day of the fifth month he came to Jerusalem according to the good hand of
his God upon him.
7:10 以斯拉立定心意考究遵行耶和华的律法，并在以色列中教导律例和典章。
For Ezra had set his heart to seek the law of Jehovah and to do it and to teach His statutes and ordinances in Israel.
7:11 祭司以斯拉是经学家，精通耶和华的诫命和祂赐给以色列之律例的话。亚达薛西王颁给他的谕旨，誊抄如下：
Now this is the copy of the letter that King Artaxerxes gave to Ezra the priest, the scribe, a scribe of the words of the commandments of Jehovah and of His
statutes for Israel:
7:12 诸王之王亚达薛西，达于祭司以斯拉，精通天上神律法的经学家，愿诸事美满。
the priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heaven, perfect peace. And now
7:13 如今在我国中的以色列民、他们的祭司和利未人，凡甘心献上自己，要往耶路撒冷去的，我降旨准他们与你同去。
I make a decree that any of the people of Israel and their priests and the Levites in my kingdom who offer themselves willingly to go to Jerusalem may go with
you.
7:14 你既然从王与他七个谋士面前奉差，去照你手中神的律法书，查问犹大和耶路撒冷的景况，
Inasmuch as you have been sent by the king and his seven counselors to inquire concerning Judah and Jerusalem according to the law of your God, which is in
your hand,
7:15 又带金银，就是王和他谋士甘心献给住在耶路撒冷之以色列神的，
And to carry the silver and gold, which the king and his counselors have offered willingly to the God of Israel, whose dwelling is in Jerusalem,
7:16 并带你在巴比伦全省所得的一切金银，连同百姓和祭司甘心乐意献给在耶路撒冷他们神殿的礼物；
As well as all the silver and gold that you shall find in the whole province of Babylon, with the freewill offering of the people and the priests, who offered willingly
for the house of their God, which is in Jerusalem;
7:17 所以你当用这金银，审慎迅速的买公牛、公绵羊、绵羊羔，和同献的素祭、奠祭之物，献在耶路撒冷你们神殿的坛上。
With this money therefore you shall with all diligence buy bulls, rams, lambs, with their meal offerings and their drink offerings; and you shall offer them on the
altar of the house of your God, which is in Jerusalem.
7:18 剩下的金银，你和你的弟兄看着怎样用为妥，就怎样用，总要照着你们神的旨意。
And whatever seems good to you and to your brothers to do with the rest of the silver and the gold, you may do according to the will of your God.
7:19 所交给你神殿中事奉用的器皿，你要全部交在耶路撒冷的神面前。
And the vessels that are given to you for the service of the house of your God, deliver in full before the God of Jerusalem.
7:20 你神殿里其余的需用，若要由你支付，你可以从王的宝库里支取。
And the rest of the needs for the house of your God, which you have occasion to provide, you may provide for it out of the king's treasure house.
7:21 我亚达薛西王又降旨与河西的一切库官，说，精通天上神律法的经学家祭司以斯拉，无论向你们要什么，你们都要周到迅速的备办，
476
And I, even I, Artaxerxes the king, make a decree to all the treasurers who are in the province beyond the River, that whatever Ezra the priest, the scribe of the law
of the God of heaven, requires of you, it shall be done with all diligence,
7:22 就是银子直到一百他连得，麦子一百柯珥，酒一百罢特，油一百罢特，盐不计其数，也要给他。
Up to one hundred talents of silver and up to one hundred cors of wheat and up to one hundred baths of wine and up to one hundred baths of oil and salt
without prescribing how much.
7:23 凡天上之神所吩咐的，当为天上神的殿详确办理。为何使忿怒临到王和王众子的国呢？
Whatever is commanded by the God of heaven, let it be done exactly for the house of the God of heaven. For why should wrath come upon the kingdom of the
king and his sons?
7:24 我们又要你们知道，凡是祭司、利未人、歌唱的、守门的、殿役、并在神这殿服事的人，你们不可叫他们进贡、交课、纳税。
We also inform you that it shall not be lawful to impose tribute, taxes, or tolls upon any of the priests and Levites, the singers, gatekeepers, temple servants, or
servants of this house of God.
7:25 至于你以斯拉，要照着你神赐你的智慧，分派所有明白你神律法的人为士师、审判官，治理河西的众百姓，使他们教训一切不明白神律法的人。
And you, Ezra, according to the wisdom of your God that is in your hand, appoint magistrates and judges, who may judge all the people who are in the province
beyond the River, all those who know the laws of your God; and teach anyone who does not know them.
7:26 凡不遵行你神律法和王律法的人，就当审慎迅速的定他的罪，或治死，或放逐，或抄家，或囚禁。
And everyone who will not observe the law of your God and the law of the king, let judgment be executed upon him with all diligence, whether to death or to
banishment or to confiscation of goods or to imprisonment.
7:27 以斯拉说，耶和华我们列祖的神是当受颂赞的，因祂把这样的意思放在王心里，要修饰在耶路撒冷耶和华的殿；
Blessed be Jehovah, the God of our fathers, who has put such a thing as this into the king's heart, to beautify the house of Jehovah, which is in Jerusalem,
7:28 祂又在王和谋士面前，并王一切大能的军长面前施慈爱与我。因耶和华我神的手帮助我，我就得以坚强，从以色列中招聚首领，与我一同上来。
And has extended lovingkindness to me before the king and his counselors, and before all the mighty officers of the king. And I was strengthened according to
the hand of Jehovah my God upon me, and I gathered together out of Israel leading men to go up with me.
以斯拉记 Ezra 第 8 章
8:1 亚达薛西王在位的时候，同我从巴比伦上来的人，他们宗族的首领和他们家谱的记载如下：
Now these are the heads of their fathers' houses and the genealogical enrollment of those who went up with me from Babylon in the reign of Artaxerxes the king:
8:2 属非尼哈的子孙有革顺；属以他玛的子孙有但以理；属大卫的子孙有哈突；
Of the sons of Phinehas, Gershom. Of the sons of Ithamar, Daniel. Of the sons of David, Hattush.
8:3 属示迦尼的子孙，属巴录的子孙，有撒迦利亚，同着他按家谱登记的，有男丁一百五十；
Of the sons of Shecaniah, of the sons of Parosh, Zechariah; and with him one hundred fifty males were enrolled by genealogy.
8:4 属巴哈摩押的子孙有西拉希雅的儿子以利约乃，同着他有男丁二百；
Of the sons of Pahath-moab, Eliehoenai the son of Zerahiah; and with him two hundred males.
8:5 属示迦尼的子孙有雅哈悉的儿子，同着他有男丁三百；
Of the sons of Shecaniah, the son of Jahaziel; and with him three hundred males.
8:6 属亚丁的子孙有约拿单的儿子以别，同着他有男丁五十；
And of the sons of Adin, Ebed the son of Jonathan; and with him fifty males.
8:7 属以拦的子孙有亚他利雅的儿子耶筛亚，同着他有男丁七十；
And of the sons of Elam, Jeshaiah the son of Athaliah; and with him seventy males.
8:8 属示法提雅的子孙有米迦勒的儿子西巴第雅，同着他有男丁八十；
And of the sons of Shephatiah, Zebadiah the son of Michael; and with him eighty males.
8:9 属约押的子孙有耶歇的儿子俄巴底亚，同着他有男丁二百一十八；
Of the sons of Joab, Obadiah the son of Jehiel; and with him two hundred eighteen males.
8:10 属示罗密的子孙有约细斐的儿子，同着他有男丁一百六十；
And of the sons of Shelomith, the son of Josiphiah; and with him one hundred sixty males.
8:11 属比拜的子孙有比拜的儿子撒迦利亚，同着他有男丁二十八；
And of the sons of Bebai, Zechariah the son of Bebai; and with him twenty- eight males.
8:12 属押甲的子孙有哈加坦的儿子约哈难，同着他有男丁一百一十；
And of the sons of Azgad, Johanan the son of Hakkatan; and with him one hundred ten males.
8:13 属亚多尼干的子孙，是末后的，他们的名字是以利法列、耶利、示玛雅，同着他们有男丁六十；
And of the sons of Adonikam, the last ones; and these are their names: Eliphelet, Jeuel, and Shemaiah; and with them sixty males.
8:14 属比革瓦伊的子孙有乌太和撒布，同着他们有男丁七十。
And of the sons of Bigvai, Uthai and Zabbud; and with them seventy males.
8:15 我招聚这些人在那流入亚哈瓦的河旁边，我们在那里安营三日。我察看百姓和祭司，见没有利未人在那里，
And I gathered them together to the river that runs to Ahava, and we camped there three days. When I observed the people and the priests, I found none of the
sons of Levi there.
8:16 就打发人去召首领以利以谢、亚列、示玛雅、以利拿单、雅立、以利拿单、拿单、撒迦利亚、米书兰，又召教师约雅立和以利拿单。
Then I sent for Eliezer, for Ariel, for Shemaiah, and for Elnathan, and for Jarib, and for Elnathan, and for Nathan, and for Zechariah, and for Meshullam, leading
men; also for Joiarib, and for Elnathan, who were teachers.
8:17 我打发他们往迦西斐雅地方去见首领易多，又把他们在迦西斐雅地方，对易多和他的弟兄作殿役的当说什么话，都告诉他们，叫他们为我们神的殿带
服事的人来。
And I sent them to Iddo the leading man at the place Casiphia; and I told them what to say to Iddo and his brothers the temple servants at the place Casiphia,
namely, to bring ministers to us for the house of our God.
8:18 因我们神美善的手帮助我们，他们在以色列的曾孙，利未的孙子，抹利的后裔中带了一个聪敏的人来，就是示利比，还有他的众子与弟兄，共十八人；
477
And according to the good hand of our God upon us they brought us a man of discretion, of the sons of Mahli, the son of Levi, the son of Israel; namely,
Sherebiah, with his sons and his brothers, eighteen men;
8:19 又有哈沙比雅，同着他有米拉利的子孙耶筛亚，并他的弟兄和他们的众子，共二十人。
And Hashabiah, and with him Jeshaiah of the sons of Merari, his brothers and their sons, twenty;
8:20 从前大卫和众首领派殿役服事利未人，现在从这些殿役中也带了二百二十人来，都是按名指定的。
And of the temple servants, whom David and the leaders had given for the service of the Levites, two hundred twenty temple servants-all of them were
mentioned by name.
8:21 那时，我在亚哈瓦河边宣告禁食，为要在我们神面前谦卑，刻苦己心，为我们和我们的妇人孩子，并一切所有的，向祂寻求平坦的道路。
Then I proclaimed a fast there, at the river Ahava, that we might humble ourselves before our God to seek from Him a straight way for ourselves and for our little
ones and for all our possessions.
8:22 我求王拨步兵马兵，帮助我们抵挡路上的仇敌，本以为羞耻；因我们曾对王说，我们神的手必帮助一切寻求祂的，使他们得好处；但祂的能力和忿怒，
必攻击一切离弃祂的。
For I was ashamed to ask for troops and horsemen from the king to help us against the enemy in the way because we had spoken to the king, saying, The hand
of our God is for good upon all those who seek Him, but His power and His wrath is against all those who forsake Him.
8:23 我们为此禁食寻求我们的神，祂就应允了我们的祈求。
So we fasted and sought our God for this, and He was entreated by us.
8:24 我将祭司中的首领十二人分别出来，就是示利比、哈沙比雅、连同他们弟兄中的十人，
Then I set apart twelve of the leading men of the priests, even Sherebiah, Hashabiah, and ten of their brothers with them,
8:25 将王和他的谋士、军长，并在那里的以色列众人，为我们神殿所献为举祭的金银和器皿，都称了交给他们。
And weighed out to them the silver and the gold and the vessels, the heave offering for the house of our God, which the king and his counselors and his princes,
and all Israel there present had offered.
8:26 我称了交在他们手中的银子有六百五十他连得；银器重一百他连得；金子一百他连得；
I weighed out into their hand six hundred fifty talents of silver and one hundred silver vessels of one hundred talents, one hundred talents of gold
8:27 金碗二十个，重一千达利克；上等发亮的铜器皿两个，宝贵如金。
And twenty bowls of gold of one thousand darics, and two vessels of fine polished bronze as precious as gold.
8:28 我对他们说，你们归耶和华为圣，器皿也为圣；金银是甘心献给耶和华你们列祖之神的。
And I said to them, You are holy to Jehovah, and the vessels are holy; and the silver and the gold are a freewill offering to Jehovah, the God of your fathers.
8:29 你们当儆醒看守，直到你们在耶路撒冷耶和华殿的房屋内，在祭司和利未人的首领，并以色列各宗族的首领面前过了秤。
Watch and keep them until you weigh them before the leaders of the priests and the Levites and the leaders of the fathers' houses of Israel at Jerusalem in the
chambers of the house of Jehovah.
8:30 于是，祭司和利未人按着分量接受金银和器皿，要带到耶路撒冷我们神的殿里。
So the priests and the Levites received the weight of the silver and the gold and the vessels, to bring them to Jerusalem to the house of our God.
8:31 正月十二日，我们从亚哈瓦河边起行，要往耶路撒冷去；我们神的手帮助我们，救我们脱离仇敌和路上埋伏之人的手。
Then we set out from the river Ahava on the twelfth day of the first month to go to Jerusalem; and the hand of our God was upon us, and He delivered us from
the hand of the enemy and from people set in ambush on the way.
8:32 我们到了耶路撒冷，在那里住了三日。
And we came to Jerusalem and remained there three days.
8:33 第四日，在我们神的殿里把金银和器皿都称了，交在祭司乌利亚的儿子米利末的手中，同着他有非尼哈的儿子以利亚撒；与他们在一起的，还有利未
人耶书亚的儿子约撒拔，和宾内的儿子挪亚底。
And on the fourth day the silver and the gold and the vessels were weighed out in the house of our God into the hand of Meremoth the son of Uriah the priest,
and with him was Eleazar the son of Phinehas; and with them were the Levites, Jozabad the son of Jeshua, and Noadiah the son of Binnui.
8:34 一切都点了数目过了秤，当时就按着分量写在册上。
Everything was numbered and weighed, and all its weight was recorded at that time.
8:35 那些被迁徙之人的子孙，从被掳归回的，向以色列的神献燔祭，就是为以色列众人献公牛十二只，公绵羊九十六只，绵羊羔七十七只，又献公山羊十
二只作赎罪祭，这都是给耶和华作燔祭的。
The children of those who had been carried away, who came out of captivity, offered burnt offerings to the God of Israel, twelve bulls for all Israel, ninety-six rams,
seventy-seven lambs, twelve male goats for a sin offering, all as a burnt offering to Jehovah.
8:36 他们将王的谕旨交给王所派的各总督，与河西的各省长，他们就资助百姓和神殿所需用的。
And they delivered the king's decrees to the king's satraps and to the governors beyond the River, and these supported the people and the house of God.
以斯拉记 Ezra 第 9 章
9:1 这些事作完了，众首领来见我，说，以色列民和祭司并利未人，没有从四围各地诸民中分别出来，仍照他们可憎的事去行，就是照迦南人、赫人、比
利洗人、耶布斯人、亚扪人、摩押人、埃及人、亚摩利人可憎的事去行。
Now when these things had been completed, the officials approached me, saying, The people of Israel and the priests and the Levites have not separated
themselves from the peoples of the lands, doing according to their abominations, even those of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites, the
Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians, and the Amorites.
9:2 因他们为自己和儿子娶了这些民的女子为妻，以致圣别的种类和这些地的诸民混杂；而且首领和官长在这不忠信的事上为魁首。
For they have taken some of their daughters for themselves and for their sons, so that the holy seed have mingled themselves with the peoples of the lands;
indeed, the hand of the leaders and rulers has been foremost in this unfaithfulness.
9:3 我一听见这事，就撕裂衣服和外袍，拔了头发和胡须，惊惧忧闷而坐。
And when I heard about this matter, I tore my garment and my robe, and pulled out hair from my head and my beard, and sat down appalled.
9:4 凡为以色列神言语战兢的，都因这被掳归回之人的不忠信聚集到我这里来；我惊惧忧闷而坐，直到晚上献素祭的时候。
Then everyone who trembled at the words of the God of Israel on account of the unfaithfulness of those of the captivity was gathered to me, and I sat appalled
until the evening meal offering.
478
9:5 晚上献素祭的时候，我从忧伤刻苦中起来，穿着撕裂的衣袍，双膝跪下，向耶和华我的神伸开双手祷告，
And at the time of the evening meal offering I rose up from my affliction, even with my garment and my robe torn, and I fell on my knees and spread out my
hands to Jehovah my God.
9:6 说，我的神阿，我抱愧蒙羞，不敢向我的神仰面；因为我们的罪孽灭顶，我们的罪过滔天。
And I said, O my God, I am ashamed and embarrassed to lift up my face to You, my God; for our iniquities have multiplied over our head, and our guilt has
increased up to the heavens.
9:7 从我们列祖的日子直到今日，我们的罪过甚大；因我们的罪孽，我们和我们的君王、祭司，都交在各地诸王的手中，被刀杀、掳掠、抢夺，脸上蒙羞，
正如今日的光景。
Since the days of our fathers up to this day we have been exceedingly guilty; and because of our iniquities we, our kings and our priests, have been delivered up
into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword, to captivity, and to plunder, and to shamefacedness, as it is this day.
9:8 现在耶和华我们的神恩待我们片时，为我们留些逃脱的人，给我们安稳的钉子钉在祂的圣所，我们的神好光照我们的眼目，使我们在受辖制之中稍微
复兴。
And now for a brief moment favor has been shown by Jehovah our God to leave us a remnant to escape and to give us a peg in His holy place, that our God
may enlighten our eyes and give us a little reviving in our bondage.
9:9 我们是奴仆，然而在受辖制之中，我们的神仍没有丢弃我们，在波斯诸王眼前向我们施慈爱，使我们复兴，能建立我们神的殿，修其荒废之处，并使
我们在犹大和耶路撒冷有墙垣。
For we are slaves, yet our God has not forsaken us in our bondage but has extended lovingkindness to us in the sight of the kings of Persia, to give us a reviving,
to raise up the house of our God and to repair its ruins, and to give us a wall in Judah and in Jerusalem.
9:10 现在，我们的神阿，既是如此，我们还有什么话可说呢？因为我们已经离弃你的命令，
And now, O our God, what shall we say after this? For we have forsaken Your commandments,
9:11 就是你藉你仆人众申言者所吩咐的，说，你们要去得为业之地是污秽之地，有各地之民的污秽，和他们叫这地从这边直到那边所充满的可憎之事，还
有他们的不洁。
Which You commanded by Your servants the prophets, saying, The land which you are entering to possess is a land unclean with the uncleanness of the peoples
of the lands, with their abominations, with which they have filled it from one end to another, and with their defilement.
9:12 所以不可将你们的女儿嫁给他们的儿子，也不可为你们的儿子娶他们的女儿，永不可为他们求平安与好处，这样你们就可以强盛，吃这地的美物，并
遗留这地给你们的子孙永远为业。
Now therefore do not give your daughters to their sons, neither take their daughters for your sons, nor seek their peace or their prosperity forever; that you may
be strong and eat the good of the land and leave it for an inheritance to your children forever.
9:13 我们因自己的恶行和大罪，遭遇了这一切的事，然而我们的神阿，你刑罚我们实在轻于我们的罪孽所当得的，又给我们留下这些逃脱的人；
And after all that has come upon us for our evil deeds and for our great guilt, seeing that You our God have punished us less than our iniquities deserve and have
given us those who have escaped as this,
9:14 我们岂可再背弃你的命令，与行这些可憎之事的民通婚呢？若这样行，你岂不向我们发怒，将我们灭绝，以致没有一个剩下逃脱的人么？
Shall we again break your commandments and intermarry with the peoples that do these abominations? Will You not be angry with us until You have consumed
us, so that there should be no remnant nor any who escape?
9:15 耶和华以色列的神阿，你是公义的，我们这剩下的人才得逃脱，正如今日的光景。我们在你面前有罪过，因此无人在你面前站立得住。
O Jehovah the God of Israel, You are righteous; for we have been left a remnant of those who have escaped, as it is this day. Here we are before You in our guilt,
although none can stand before You because of this.
以斯拉记 Ezra 第 10 章
10:1 以斯拉哭泣并俯伏在神殿前，祷告认罪的时候，以色列中有极大的一群男女和孩童聚集到以斯拉那里；众民无不痛哭。
Now while Ezra prayed and made confession, weeping and throwing himself down before the house of God, a very large gathering of men and women and
children was gathered together to him out of Israel; for the people wept very bitterly.
10:2 属以拦的子孙，耶歇的儿子示迦尼，对以斯拉说，我们对我们的神不忠信，娶了此地民中的外邦女子为妻，然而对于这事，以色列人还有指望。
And Shecaniah the son of Jehiel, one of the sons of Elam, answered and said to Ezra, We have acted unfaithfully against our God and have married foreign
women from the peoples of the land, yet now there is hope for Israel concerning this.
10:3 现在我们当与我们的神立约，将这一切妻子和她们所生的儿女送走，照着我主和那因我们神命令战兢之人所议定的，按律法而行。
Now therefore let us make a covenant with our God to put away all the wives and those born of them according to the counsel of my lord and of those who
tremble at the commandment of our God, and let it be done according to the law.
10:4 你起来，这是你当办的事，我们必帮助你，你当刚强行事。
Arise, for the matter is your responsibility, but we are with you; be strong, and do it.
10:5 以斯拉便起来，使祭司、利未人、和以色列众人的首领起誓，要照这话去行；他们就起了誓。
Then Ezra arose and made the leaders of the priests, the Levites, and all Israel swear that they would do according to this word; so they swore.
10:6 以斯拉从神殿前起来，进入以利亚实的儿子约哈难的屋里；到了那里不吃饭，也不喝水，因他为那些被掳归回之人的不忠信悲伤。
Then Ezra rose up from before the house of God and went into the chamber of Jehohanan the son of Eliashib; and when he came there, he ate no bread and
drank no water, for he was mourning because of the unfaithfulness of those of the captivity.
10:7 他们在犹大和耶路撒冷通告所有被掳归回的人，叫他们在耶路撒冷聚集。
And they made proclamation throughout Judah and Jerusalem to all the children of the captivity, that they should gather themselves together to Jerusalem;
10:8 凡不照首领和长老所议定，在三日之内来到的，他所有的财物必被没收，他也必离开被掳归回之人的会。
And that whoever did not come within three days, according to the counsel of the leaders and the elders, all his possessions should be forfeited, and he himself
should be separated from the congregation of the captivity.
10:9 于是，犹大和便雅悯众人，三日之内都聚集在耶路撒冷。那日正是九月二十日，众人都坐在神殿前的宽阔处；因这事，又因下大雨，就都战兢。
Then all the men of Judah and Benjamin gathered themselves together to Jerusalem within the three days. It was the ninth month, on the twentieth day of the
month, and all the people sat in the open square in front of the house of God, trembling because of this matter and because of the heavy rain.
10:10 祭司以斯拉站起来，对他们说，你们行事不忠信，娶了外邦的女子为妻，增添以色列人的罪过。
479
And Ezra the priest stood up and said to them, You have acted unfaithfully and have married foreign women to increase the guilt of Israel.
10:11 现在当向耶和华你们列祖的神认罪，遵行祂的旨意，从这地的诸民和外邦的女子分别出来。
Now therefore make confession to Jehovah the God of your fathers, and do His will, and separate yourselves from the peoples of the land and from the foreign
women.
10:12 会众都大声回答说，你说得对，我们必照着你的话行。
Then all the congregation answered and said with a loud voice, It is so; we must do as you have said.
10:13 只是百姓众多，又逢大雨的时令，我们不能站在外头，这也不是一两天能办完的事，因我们在这事上犯了大罪；
But the people are many, and it is a time of heavy rain, and we are not able to stand outside; neither is this a task for one day or two, for we have transgressed
greatly in this matter.
10:14 不如让我们的首领代表全会众办理这事，凡我们城邑中娶了外邦女子为妻的，当按所定的日期，同着本城的长老和士师而来，直到办完这事，使神
因这事所发的烈怒转离我们。
Let our leaders represent the whole congregation, and let all those who are in our cities who have married foreign women come at appointed times and with
them the elders of every city and their judges, until the fierce anger of our God is turned away from us on account of this matter.
10:15 惟有亚撒黑的儿子约拿单，特瓦的儿子雅哈谢阻挡这事，并有米书兰和利未人沙比太帮助他们。
Only Jonathan the son of Asahel and Jahzeiah the son of Tikvah stood up against this, and Meshullam and Shabbethai the Levite supported them.
10:16 被掳归回的人如此而行。祭司以斯拉和一些宗族的首领都按着宗族，指名被分别出来；在十月初一日，他们坐下来查办这事。
And the children of the captivity did so. And Ezra the priest, with certain heads of fathers' houses were set apart according to their fathers' houses, all of them by
name; and they sat down on the first day of the tenth month to examine the matter.
10:17 到正月初一日，他们才查出所有娶了外邦女子的人。
And they finished with all the men who had married foreign women by the first day of the first month.
10:18 在祭司子孙中查出娶了外邦女子为妻的，就是耶书亚的子孙约萨达的儿子，和他弟兄玛西雅、以利以谢、雅立、基大利。
And among the sons of the priests who had married foreign women there were found of the sons of Jeshua the son of Jozadak and his brothers: Maaseiah and
Eliezer and Jarib and Gedaliah.
10:19 他们便保证必把他们的妻子送走；他们因有罪过，就为自己的罪过献上群中的一只公绵羊。
And they pledged that they would put away their wives; and being guilty, they offered a ram of the flock for their guilt.
10:20 音麦的子孙中，有哈拿尼、西巴第雅。
And of the sons of Immer: Hanani and Zebadiah.
10:21 哈琳的子孙中，有玛西雅、以利雅、示玛雅、耶歇、乌西雅。
And of the sons of Harim: Maaseiah, and Elijah, and Shemaiah, and Jehiel, and Uzziah.
10:22 巴施户珥的子孙中，有以利约乃、玛西雅、以实玛利、拿坦业、约撒拔、以利亚撒。
And of the sons of Pashhur: Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, Nethanel, Jozabad, and Elasah.
10:23 利未人中，有约撒拔、示每、基拉雅(就是基利他，)还有毗他希雅、犹大、以利以谢。
And of the Levites: Jozabad, and Shimei, and Kelaiah (that is, Kelita), Pethahiah, Judah, and Eliezer.
10:24 歌唱的人中有以利亚实。守门的人中，有沙龙、提联、乌利。
And of the singers: Eliashib. And of the gatekeepers: Shallum, and Telem, and Uri.
10:25 以色列人巴录的子孙中，有拉米、耶西雅、玛基雅、米雅民、以利亚撒、玛基雅、比拿雅。
And of Israel: of the sons of Parosh: Ramiah, and Izziah, and Malchijah, and Mijamin, and Eleazar, and Malchijah, and Benaiah.
10:26 以拦的子孙中，有玛他尼、撒迦利亚、耶歇、押底、耶利末、以利雅。
And of the sons of Elam: Mattaniah, Zechariah, and Jehiel, and Abdi, and Jeremoth, and Elijah.
10:27 萨土的子孙中，有以利约乃、以利亚实、玛他尼、耶利末、撒拔、亚西撒。
And of the sons of Zattu: Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, and Jeremoth, and Zabad, and Aziza.
10:28 比拜的子孙中，有约哈难、哈拿尼雅、萨拜、亚勒。
And of the sons of Bebai: Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, Athlai.
10:29 巴尼的子孙中，有米书兰、玛鹿、亚大雅、雅述、示押、耶利末。
And of the sons of Bani: Meshullam, Malluch, and Adaiah, Jashub, and Sheal, Jeremoth.
10:30 巴哈摩押的子孙中，有阿底拿、基拉、比拿雅、玛西雅、玛他尼、比撒列、宾内、玛拿西。
And of the sons of Pahath-moab: Adna, and Chelal, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezalel, and Binnui, and Manasseh.
10:31 哈琳的子孙中，有以利以谢、伊示雅、玛基雅、示玛雅、西缅、
And of the sons of Harim: Eliezer, Isshijah, Malchijah, Shemaiah, Shimeon,
10:32 便雅悯、玛鹿、示玛利雅。
Benjamin, Malluch, Shemariah.
10:33 哈顺的子孙中，有玛特乃、玛达他、撒拔、以利法列、耶利买、玛拿西、示每。
Of the sons of Hashum: Mattenai, Mattattah, Zabad, Eliphelet, Jeremai, Manasseh, Shimei.
10:34 巴尼的子孙中，有玛玳、暗兰、乌益、
Of the sons of Bani: Maadai, Amram, and Uel,
10:35 比拿雅、比底雅、基禄、
Benaiah, Bedeiah, Cheluhi,
10:36 瓦尼雅、米利末、以利亚实、
Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib,
10:37 玛他尼、玛特乃、雅扫、
Mattaniah, Mattenai, and Jaasu,
10:38 巴尼、宾内、示每、
And Bani, and Binnui, Shimei,
10:39 示利米雅、拿单、亚大雅、
And Shelemiah, and Nathan, and Adaiah,
10:40 玛拿底拜、沙赛、沙赖、
Machnadebai, Shashai, Sharai,
10:41 亚萨利、示利米雅、示玛利雅、
Azarel, and Shelemiah, Shemariah,
10:42 沙龙、亚玛利雅、约瑟。
Shallum, Amariah, Joseph.
10:43 尼波的子孙中，有耶利、玛他提雅、撒拔、西比拿、雅玳、约珥、比拿雅。
Of the sons of Nebo: Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Jaddai, and Joel, Benaiah.
10:44 这些人都娶了外邦女子为妻，其中也有一些已经生了儿女。
All these had taken foreign wives; and some of them had wives by whom they had children.