48. 加拉太书 Galatians
加拉太书 Galatians 第 1 章
1:1 作使徒的保罗，（不是由于人，也不是借着人，乃是借着耶稣基督，和叫祂从死人中复活的父神，）
Paul, an apostle (not from men nor through man but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised Him from the dead),
1:2 并一切与我同在的众弟兄，写信给加拉太的众召会：
And all the brothers who are with me, to the churches of Galatia:
1:3 愿恩典与平安，从神我们的父，并主耶稣基督归与你们。
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ,
1:4 基督照着我们神与父的旨意，为我们的罪舍了自己，要把我们从现今这邪恶的世代救出来。
Who gave Himself for our sins that He might rescue us out of the present evil age according to the will of our God and Father,
1:5 愿荣耀归与祂，直到永永远远。阿们。
To whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
1:6 我希奇你们这么快离开那在基督的恩典里召了你们的，去归向不同的福音。
I marvel that you are so quickly removing from Him who has called you in the grace of Christ to a different gospel,
1:7 那并不是另一个福音，不过是有些人搅扰你们，想要转变基督的福音。
Which is not another gospel, only there are some who trouble you and desire to pervert the gospel of Christ.
1:8 但即使是我们，或是从天上来的使者，若在我们所传给你们的福音之外，另传一个福音给你们，他就该受咒诅。
But if even we or an angel out of heaven should announce to you a gospel beyond that which we have announced to you, let him be accursed.
1:9 我们先前说过，现在我再说，若有人在你们所领受的之外，另传一个福音给你们，他就该受咒诅。
As we have said before, now also I say again, If anyone announces to you a gospel beyond that which you have received, let him be accursed.
1:10 我现在是要得人的心，还是要得神的心？或者我是要讨人的喜悦么？若我仍讨人的喜悦，我就不是基督的奴仆了。
For am I now trying to win the assent of men or of God? Or am I seeking to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a slave of Christ.
1:11 弟兄们，我要你们知道，那借着我所传的福音，并不是照着人意的，
For I make known to you, brothers, concerning the gospel announced by me, that it is not according to man.
1:12 因为我不是从人领受的，也不是人教导我的，乃是借着耶稣基督的启示领受的。
For neither did I receive it from man, nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation by Jesus Christ.
1:13 你们听过我从前在犹太教中所行的事，怎样极力逼迫神的召会，并损毁神的召会。
For you have heard of my manner of life formerly in Judaism, that I persecuted the church of God excessively and ravaged it.
1:14 我又在犹太教中，比我本族许多同岁的人更有长进，为我祖宗的传统格外热心。
And I advanced in Judaism beyond many contemporaries in my race, being more abundantly a zealot for the traditions of my fathers.
1:15 然而那把我从母腹里分别出来，又借着祂的恩典呼召我的神，
But when it pleased God, who set me apart from my mother's womb and called me through His grace,
1:16 既然乐意将祂儿子启示在我里面，叫我把祂当作福音传在外邦人中，我就即刻没有与血肉之人商量，
To reveal His Son in me that I might announce Him as the gospel among the Gentiles, immediately I did not confer with flesh and blood,
1:17 也没有上耶路撒冷，去见那些比我先作使徒的，却往亚拉伯去，后又回到大马色。
Neither did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away to Arabia and again returned to Damascus.
1:18 过了三年，才上耶路撒冷去访问矶法，和他同住了十五天。
Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas, and I remained with him fifteen days.
1:19 至于别的使徒，除了主的兄弟雅各，我都没有见过。
But I saw none of the other apostles except James, the brother of the Lord.
1:20 我写给你们的，并不是谎言，看哪，我是在神面前说的。
Now concerning the things which I am writing to you, behold, before God, I am not lying.
1:21 后来我到了叙利亚和基利家一带。
Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia.
1:22 那时，犹太在基督里的众召会，都还没有见面认识我，
Yet I was still unknown by face to the churches of Judea, which are in Christ.
1:23 不过听说，那从前一直逼迫他们的，现在将他原先所损毁的信仰当作福音传扬。
But they only heard this: He who was formerly persecuting us is now announcing as the gospel the faith which formerly he ravaged.
1:24 他们就因着我荣耀神。
And they glorified God because of me.
加拉太书 Galatians 第 2 章
2:1 过了十四年，我同巴拿巴，也带着提多，再上耶路撒冷去。
Then after a period of fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking Titus with me also.
2:2 我是照着启示上去的，把我在外邦人中所传的福音，对他们陈述；只是私下对那些有名望的人说；惟恐我现在，或是从前，徒然奔跑。
And I went up according to revelation, and I laid before them the gospel which I proclaim among the Gentiles, but privately to those who were of repute, lest
perhaps I should be running, or had run, in vain.
2:3 但与我同去的提多，虽是希利尼人，也没有被勉强受割礼；
But not even Titus, who was with me, though he is a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised;
2:4 因为有偷着引进来的假弟兄，他们偷着进来，要窥探我们在基督耶稣里所得的自由，为要强制我们作奴隶；
And this, because of the false brothers, brought in secretly, who stole in to spy out our freedom which we have in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into
slavery.
2:5 我们就是一刻的工夫，也没有容让服从他们，为要使福音的真理存留在你们中间。
To them we yielded with the subjection demanded not even for an hour, that the truth of the gospel might remain with you.
2:6 至于那些有名望的，不论他们从前是何等人，于我都没有差别；神不以外貌取人；那些有名望的，并没有加给我什么；
But from those who were reputed to be something -- whatever they were makes no difference to me; God does not accept man's person; for to me those who
were of repute added nothing.
2:7 反倒看见我受托传福音给那未受割礼的人，正如彼得受托传福音给那受割礼的人，
But on the contrary, seeing that I had been entrusted with the gospel to the uncircumcision, even as Peter with the gospel to the circumcision,
2:8 （因为那在彼得里面运行，叫他为受割礼之人尽使徒职分的，也在我里面运行，叫我为外邦人尽使徒的职分，）
(For He who operated in Peter for the apostleship to the circumcision operated also in me for the Gentiles),
2:9 又知道所赐给我的恩典，那被视为柱石的雅各、矶法、约翰，就向我和巴拿巴伸出右手彼此相交，叫我们往外邦人那里去，他们却往受割礼的人那里
去；
And perceiving the grace given to me, James and Cephas and John, who were reputed to be pillars, gave to me and to Barnabas the right hand of fellowship
that we should go to the Gentiles, and they, to the circumcision.
2:10 只是要我们记念穷人，这也是我本来热诚去行的。
Only they requested that we remember the poor, which very thing I was also eager to do.
2:11 但矶法来到安提阿的时候，因他有可定罪之处，我就当面抵挡他。
But when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face because he stood condemned.
2:12 因为从雅各那里来的几个人，未到以先，他惯常和外邦人一同吃饭；及至他们来到，他因怕奉割礼的人，就开始退去，隔离自己。
For before some came from James, he continually ate with the Gentiles; but when they came, he began to shrink back and separate himself, fearing those of the
circumcision.
2:13 其余的犹太人，也都随着他装假；甚至连巴拿巴也被牵引，和他们一同装假。
And the rest of the Jews also joined him in this hypocrisy, so that even Barnabas was carried away in their hypocrisy.
2:14 但我一看见他们不按福音的真理正直而行，就在众人面前对矶法说，你既是犹太人，若是生活像外邦人，不像犹太人，怎么还勉强外邦人犹太化？
But when I saw that they were not walking in a straightforward way in relation to the truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas before them all, If you, being a Jew, live
like the Gentiles and not like the Jews, how is it that you compel the Gentiles to live like the Jews?
2:15 我们是生来的犹太人，并不是出于外邦的罪人，
We are Jews by nature and not sinners from among the Gentiles;
2:16 且知道人得称义，不是本于行律法，乃是借着信耶稣基督，连我们也信入了基督耶稣，使我们本于信基督得称义，不是本于行律法；因为凡属肉体的
人，都不能本于行律法得称义。
And knowing that a man is not justified out of works of law, but through faith in Jesus Christ, we also have believed into Christ Jesus that we might be justified out
of faith in Christ and not out of the works of law, because out of the works of law no flesh will be justified.
2:17 我们若寻求在基督里得称义，自己却也显为罪人，这样，基督岂不是叫人犯罪的么？绝对不是。
But if, while seeking to be justified in Christ, we ourselves also have been found sinners, is then Christ a minister of sin? Absolutely not!
2:18 因为我所拆毁的，若再建造，就证明自己是个有过犯的人。
For if I build again the things which I have destroyed, I prove myself to be a transgressor.
2:19 我借着律法，已经向律法死了，叫我可以向神活着。
For I through law have died to law that I might live to God.
2:20 我已经与基督同钉十字架；现在活着的，不再是我，乃是基督在我里面活着；并且我如今在肉身里所活的生命，是我在神儿子的信里，与祂联结所活
的，祂是爱我，为我舍了自己。
I am crucified with Christ; and it is no longer I who live, but it is Christ who lives in me; and the life which I now live in the flesh I live in faith, the faith of the Son of
God, who loved me and gave Himself up for me.
2:21 我不废弃神的恩；因为义若是借着律法得的，基督就是白白死了。
I do not nullify the grace of God; for if righteousness is through law, then Christ has died for nothing.
加拉太书 Galatians 第 3 章
3:1 无知的加拉太人哪，耶稣基督钉十字架，已经活画在你们眼前，谁竟迷惑了你们？
O foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was openly portrayed crucified?
3:2 我只愿问你们这一件，你们接受了那灵，是本于行律法，还是本于听信仰？
This only I wish to learn from you, Did you receive the Spirit out of the works of law or out of the hearing of faith?
3:3 你们是这样的无知么？你们既靠那灵开始，如今还靠肉体成全么？
Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh?
3:4 你们受苦如此之多，都是徒然的么？难道果真是徒然的么？
Have you suffered so many things in vain, if indeed it was in vain?
3:5 这样，那丰富供应你们那灵，又在你们中间行异能的，是本于行律法，还是本于听信仰？
He therefore who bountifully supplies to you the Spirit and does works of power among you, does He do it out of the works of law or out of the hearing of faith?
3:6 正如“亚伯拉罕信神，这就算为他的义。”
Even as "Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness.''
3:7 所以你们要知道，那以信为本的人，就是亚伯拉罕的子孙。
Know then that they who are of faith, these are sons of Abraham.
3:8 并且圣经既预先看明，神要本于信称外邦人为义，就预先传福音给亚伯拉罕，说，“万国都必因你得福。”
And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles out of faith, announced the gospel beforehand to Abraham: "In you shall all the nations be
blessed.''
3:9 这样，那以信为本的人，便和那信的亚伯拉罕一同得福。
So then they who are of faith are blessed with believing Abraham.
3:10 凡以行律法为本的，都在咒诅之下，因为经上记着：“凡不常常照着律法书上所记一切之事去行的，都是被咒诅的。”
For as many as are of the works of law are under a curse; for it is written, "Cursed is everyone who does not continue in all the things written in the book of the
law to do them.''
3:11 没有一个人凭着律法在神面前得称义，乃是明显的，因为“义人必本于信得生并活着；”
And that by law no one is justified before God is evident because, "The righteous one shall have life and live by faith'';
3:12 但律法不是本于信，只说，“行这些事的，必因这些事活着。”
But the law is not of faith, yet, "He who does them shall live because of them.''
3:13 基督既为我们成了咒诅，就赎出我们脱离律法的咒诅，因为经上记着：“凡挂在木头上的，都是被咒诅的，”
Christ has redeemed us out of the curse of the law, having become a curse on our behalf; because it is written, "Cursed is every one hanging on a tree'';
3:14 为叫亚伯拉罕的福，在基督耶稣里可以临到外邦人，使我们借着信，可以接受所应许的那灵。
In order that the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles in Christ Jesus, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.
3:15 弟兄们，我照着人的常话说，即使是人的约，若已经立定了，就没有人可以废弃，或加增的。
Brothers, I speak according to man, though it is a man's covenant, yet when it has been ratified, no one nullifies it or makes additions to it.
3:16 应许原是向亚伯拉罕和他后裔说的。并不是说，“和众后裔，”像是指着许多人，乃是说，“和你那后裔，”指着一个人，就是基督。
But to Abraham were the promises spoken and to his seed. He does not say, "And to the seeds,'' as concerning many, but as concerning one: "And to your
seed,'' who is Christ.
3:17 而且我这样说，神预先所立定的约，不能被那四百三十年以后才有的律法废掉，以致使应许失效。
And I say this: A covenant previously ratified by God, the law, having come four hundred and thirty years after, does not annul so as to make the promise of none
effect.
3:18 因为承受产业若是本于律法，就不再本于应许；但神已经借着应许，将产业恩赐亚伯拉罕。
For if the inheritance is of law, it is no longer of promise; but to Abraham God has graciously given it through promise.
3:19 这样，律法是为什么有的？乃是因过犯添上的，直等那蒙应许的后裔来到；并且是藉天使经中保之手设立的。
Why then the law? It was added because of the transgressions until the seed should come to whom the promise was made, it being ordained through angels in
the hand of a mediator.
3:20 但中保不是一面的，神却是一位。
But a mediator is not a mediator for one, but God is one.
3:21 这样，律法是与神的应许相反么？绝对不是！因为若曾赐给一个能赐生命的律法，义就真是本于律法了。
Is then the law against the promises of God? Absolutely not! For if a law had been given which was able to give life, righteousness would have indeed been of
law.
3:22 但圣经把众人都圈在罪里，好叫那以信耶稣基督为本的应许，可以赐给那些信的人。
But the Scripture has shut up all under sin in order that the promise out of faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe.
3:23 但信仰还未来到以先，我们是被看守在律法之下，被圈住好归于那要显示的信仰。
But before faith came we were guarded under law, being shut up unto the faith which was to be revealed.
3:24 这样，律法成了我们的儿童导师，带我们归于基督，好使我们本于信得称义。
So then the law has become our child-conductor unto Christ that we might be justified out of faith.
3:25 但信仰既然来到，我们就不再在儿童导师的手下了，
But since faith has come, we are no longer under a child-conductor.
3:26 因为你们众人借着相信基督耶稣，都是神的儿子。
For you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus.
3:27 你们凡浸入基督的，都已经穿上了基督。
For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.
3:28 没有犹太人或希利尼人，没有为奴的或自主的，也没有男和女，因为你们众人在基督耶稣里，都是一了。
There cannot be Jew nor Greek, there cannot be slave nor free man, there cannot be male and female; for you are all one in Christ Jesus.
3:29 你们既属于基督，就是亚伯拉罕的后裔，是照着应许为后嗣了。
And if you are of Christ, then you are Abraham's seed, heirs according to promise.
加拉太书 Galatians 第 4 章
4:1 然而我说，后嗣几时还是孩童，他虽是全业的主人，却与奴仆毫无分别，
But I say, As long as the heir is a child, he does not differ at all from a slave, though he is lord of all;
4:2 乃是在监护人和管家的手下，直到父亲所预定的时候。
But he is under guardians and stewards until the time appointed by the father.
4:3 我们也是这样，为孩童的时候，受奴役于世上的蒙学之下；
So also we, when we were children, were kept in slavery under the elements of the world;
4:4 及至时候满足，神就差出祂的儿子，由女子所生，且生在律法以下，
But when the fullness of the time came, God sent forth His Son, born of a woman, born under law,
4:5 要把律法以下的人赎出来，好叫我们得着儿子的名分。
That He might redeem those under law that we might receive the sonship.
4:6 而且因你们是儿子，神就差出祂儿子的灵，进入我们的心，呼叫：阿爸，父！
And because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father!
4:7 这样，你不再是奴仆，乃是儿子了；既是儿子，也就借着神为后嗣。
So then you are no longer a slave but a son; and if a son, an heir also through God.
4:8 但从前你们不认识神的时候，是给那些本性上不是神的作奴仆。
However at that time, not knowing God, you were slaves to the gods which by nature are not gods;
4:9 现在你们既然认识神，更可说是神所认识的，怎么还要转向那软弱乏用的蒙学，情愿重新再给它们作奴仆？
But now, having come to know God, or rather having been known by God, how is it that you turn again to the weak and poor elements, to which you desire to be
enslaved yet again?
4:10 你们谨守日子、月分、节期、年分；
You observe days and months and seasons and years;
4:11 我为你们害怕，惟恐我在你们身上是徒然劳苦。
I fear for you, lest I have labored upon you in vain.
4:12 弟兄们，我求你们要像我一样，因为我也像你们一样；你们一点没有亏负我。
Become as I am, because I also am as you are, brothers, I beseech you; you have not wronged me at all.
4:13 你们知道我初次传福音给你们，是因为肉身有疾病。
And you know that because of weakness of my flesh I announced the gospel to you the first time.
4:14 那在我肉身上成为你们试炼的，你们并没有轻看，也没有厌弃；反倒接待我，如同神的使者，如同基督耶稣。
And that which was a trial to you in my flesh you did not despise nor loathe, but you received me as an angel of God, indeed as Christ Jesus.
4:15 这样，你们当日所庆幸的福气在那里？我能给你们作见证，若是可能，那时你们已把自己的眼睛剜出来给我了。
Where then is your felicitation? For I testify concerning you that if possible you would have plucked out your eyes and given them to me.
4:16 现在我将真理告诉你们，就成了你们的仇敌么？
So then have I become your enemy by presenting the truth to you?
4:17 那些人热心待你们，不是好意，乃是要离间你们，叫你们热心待他们。
They are zealous of you, but not rightly; but they desire to shut you out that you may be zealous of them.
4:18 在善事上，常常热心待人，原是好的，却不单我与你们同在的时候才这样。
But it is always good to be zealous in a good thing, and not only when I am present with you.
4:19 我的孩子们，我为你们再受生产之苦，直等到基督成形在你们里面。
My children, with whom I travail again in birth until Christ is formed in you,
4:20 我巴不得现在与你们同在，改变我的口气，因我为你们心里作难。
Indeed, I wish I could be present with you now and change my tone because I am perplexed about you.
4:21 你们这愿意在律法以下的，请告诉我，你们岂没有听过律法么？
Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you not hear the law?
4:22 因为律法上记着，亚伯拉罕有两个儿子，一个是出于使女，一个是出于自主的妇人。
For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one of the maidservant and one of the free woman.
4:23 然而那出于使女的，是按着肉体生的；那出于自主妇人的，是借着应许生的。
However the one of the maidservant was born according to the flesh, but the one of the free woman was born through promise.
4:24 这些都是寓意：两个妇人就是两约，一个是出于西乃山，生子为奴，乃是夏甲。
These things are spoken allegorically, for these women are two covenants, one from Mount Sinai, bringing forth children unto slavery, which is Hagar.
4:25 这夏甲就是在亚拉伯的西乃山，相当于现在的耶路撒冷，因耶路撒冷同她的儿女都是作奴仆的。
Now this Hagar is Sinai the mountain in Arabia and corresponds to the Jerusalem which now is, for she is in slavery with her children.
4:26 但那在上的耶路撒冷是自主的，她是我们的母，
But the Jerusalem above is free, which is our mother;
4:27 因为经上记着：“那不生育，没有生产过的，你要快乐；那未曾经过产难的，你要放声呼喊，因为独居的，比有丈夫的儿女更多。”
For it is written, "Rejoice, barren one who does not bear; break forth and shout, you who are not travailing, because many are the children of her who is desolate
rather than of her who has her husband.''
4:28 弟兄们，你们乃是借着应许生的儿女，像以撒一样。
But you, brothers, in the way Isaac was, are children of promise.
4:29 只是，当时那按着肉体生的，怎样逼迫了那按着灵生的，现在也是这样。
But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is now.
4:30 然而经上是怎么说的？“把使女和她儿子赶出去，因为使女的儿子，绝不可与自主妇人的儿子一同承受产业。”
But what does the Scripture say? "Cast out the maidservant and her son, for the son of the maidservant shall by no means inherit with the son of the free
woman.''
4:31 所以，弟兄们，我们不是使女的儿女，乃是自主妇人的儿女了。
So then, brothers, we are not children of the maidservant but of the free woman.
加拉太书 Galatians 第 5 章
5:1 基督释放了我们，叫我们得以自由；所以要站立得住，不要再受奴役的轭挟制。
It is for freedom that Christ has set us free; stand fast therefore, and do not be entangled with a yoke of slavery again.
5:2 看哪，我保罗告诉你们，你们若受割礼，基督就于你们无益了。
Behold, I Paul say to you that if you become circumcised, Christ will profit you nothing.
5:3 我再对凡受割礼的人作见证，他是欠着行全律法债的人。
And I testify again to every man who becomes circumcised that he is a debtor to do the whole law.
5:4 你们这要靠律法得称义的，是与基督隔绝，从恩典中坠落了。
You have been brought to nought, separated from Christ, you who are being justified by law; you have fallen from grace.
5:5 我们靠着那灵，本于信，热切等待所盼望的义。
For we by the Spirit out of faith eagerly await the hope of righteousness.
5:6 因为在基督耶稣里，受割礼不受割礼，全无效力；惟独借着爱运行的信，才有效力。
For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision avails anything nor uncircumcision, but faith avails, operating through love.
5:7 你们向来跑得好，有谁拦阻你们，叫你们不信服真理？
You were running well. Who hindered you that you would not believe and obey the truth?
5:8 这劝导不是出于那召你们的。
This persuasion is not of Him who calls you.
5:9 一点面酵能使全团都发起来。
A little leaven leavens the whole lump.
5:10 我在主里深信，你们不会有别的念头；但那搅扰你们的，无论是谁，必担受处罚。
I am confident in the Lord concerning you that you will be of no other mind; but he who is troubling you shall bear the judgment, whoever he may be.
5:11 至于我，弟兄们，如果我仍旧传割礼，为什么还受逼迫？若是这样，十字架这绊脚石就废去了。
But I, brothers, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still being persecuted? Then the stumbling block of the cross has been annulled.
5:12 我恨不得那些扰乱你们的人，甚至把自己割掉了。
I wish that those upsetting you would even cut themselves off.
5:13 弟兄们，你们蒙召原是为得自由；只是不可将自由当作放纵肉体的机会，倒要凭着爱互相服事。
For you were called for freedom, brothers; only do not turn this freedom into an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another.
5:14 因为全律法都在“要爱邻舍如同自己”这一句话之内，得以完全了。
For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, in this, "You shall love your neighbor as yourself.''
5:15 你们要谨慎，若相咬相吞，只怕要彼此销灭了。
But if you bite and devour one another, beware lest you be consumed by one another.
5:16 我说，你们当凭着灵而行，就绝不会满足肉体的情欲了。
But I say, Walk by the Spirit and you shall by no means fulfill the lust of the flesh.
5:17 因为肉体纵任贪欲，抵抗那灵，那灵也抵抗肉体，二者彼此敌对，使你们不能作所愿意的。
For the flesh lusts against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh; for these oppose each other that you would not do the things that you desire.
5:18 但你们若被那灵引导，就不在律法以下。
But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law.
5:19 肉体的行为，都是明显的，就是淫乱、污秽、邪荡、
And the works of the flesh are manifest, which are such things as fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness,
5:20 拜偶像、邪术、仇恨、争竞、忌恨、恼怒、私图好争、分立、宗派、
Idolatry, sorcery, enmities, strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, factions, divisions, sects,
5:21 嫉妒、醉酒、荒宴以及类似的事；关于这些事，我现在事先告诉你们，正如我先前说过的：行这样事的人，必不得承受神的国。
Envyings, bouts of drunkenness, carousings, and things like these, of which I tell you beforehand, even as I have said before, that those who practice such things
will not inherit the kingdom of God.
5:22 但那灵的果子，就是爱、喜乐、和平、恒忍、恩慈、良善、信实、
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness,
5:23 温柔、节制；这样的事，没有律法反对。
Meekness, self-control; against such things there is no law.
5:24 但那属基督耶稣的人，是已经把肉体连肉体的邪情私欲，都钉了十字架。
But they who are of Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and its lusts.
5:25 我们若凭着灵活着，也就当凭着灵而行。
If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit.
5:26 不要贪图虚荣，彼此惹气，互相嫉妒。
Let us not become vainglorious, provoking one another, envying one another.
加拉太书 Galatians 第 6 章
6:1 弟兄们，即使有人偶然为某种过犯所胜，你们属灵的人，也当用温柔的灵挽回这样的人，可是要当心自己，免得也被试诱。
Brothers, even if a man is overtaken in some offense, you who are spiritual restore such a one in a spirit of meekness, looking to yourself lest you also be tempted.
6:2 你们的重担要彼此担当，这样就完全满足了基督的律法。
Bear one another's burdens, and in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ completely.
6:3 人若不是什么，还以为是什么，就是自欺了。
For if anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing, he deceives himself.
6:4 各人应当验证自己的工作，这样，他所夸的就只在自己，不在别人了，
But let each man prove his own work, and then he will have his boast in regard to himself alone and not in regard to another.
6:5 因为各人必担当自己的担子。
For each one shall bear his own load.
6:6 只是那在话语上受教的，当与施教的人共同分享一切的美物。
But let him who is instructed in the word share in all good things with him who instructs.
6:7 不要受迷惑，神是嗤慢不得的，因为人种的是什么，收的也是什么。
Do not be deceived: God is not mocked; for whatever a man sows, this he will also reap.
6:8 为着自己的肉体撒种的，必从肉体收败坏；为着那灵撒种的，必从那灵收永远的生命。
For he who sows unto his own flesh will reap corruption of the flesh, but he who sows unto the Spirit will of the Spirit reap eternal life.
6:9 我们行善，不可丧志；因为若不灰心，到了适当的时候，就要收成。
And let us not lose heart in doing what is good, for in the proper season we will reap if we do not faint.
6:10 所以我们有了时机，就当向众人行善，尤其是向信仰之家的人。
So then, as we have the opportunity, let us do what is good toward all, but especially toward those of the household of the faith.
6:11 你们看，我亲手写给你们的字是何等的大。
See with what large letters I have written to you with my own hand.
6:12 凡在肉体上要体面的人，都想勉强你们受割礼，不过是免得为基督的十字架受逼迫。
As many as desire to make a good show in the flesh, these compel you to be circumcised, but only that they may not be persecuted for the cross of Christ.
6:13 那些受割礼的，连自己也不守律法，他们却想要你们受割礼，好在你们的肉体上夸口。
For neither do they that become circumcised keep the law themselves, but they desire you to be circumcised that they may boast in your flesh.
6:14 但就我而论，除了我们主耶稣基督的十字架，别无可夸；借着祂，就我而论，世界已经钉了十字架；就世界而论，我也已经钉了十字架。
But far be it from me to boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom the world has been crucified to me and I to the world.
6:15 受割礼不受割礼，都无关紧要，要紧的乃是作新造。
For neither is circumcision anything nor uncircumcision, but a new creation is what matters.
6:16 凡照这准则而行的，愿平安怜悯临到他们，就是临到神的以色列。
And as many as walk by this rule, peace be upon them and mercy, even upon the Israel of God.
6:17 从今以后，人都不要搅扰我，因为我身体上带着耶稣的烙印。
Henceforth let no one trouble me, for I bear in my body the brands of Jesus.
6:18 弟兄们，愿我们主耶稣基督的恩与你们的灵同在。阿们。
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brothers. Amen.