1. 创世记 Genesis
创世记 Genesis 第 1 章
1:1 起初神创造诸天与地，
In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth.
1:2 而地变为荒废空虚，渊面黑暗。神的灵覆罩在水面上。
But the earth became waste and emptiness, and darkness was on the surface of the deep, and the Spirit of God was brooding upon the surface of the waters.
1:3 神说，要有光，就有了光。
And God said, Let there be light; and there was light.
1:4 神看光是好的，就把光暗分开了。
And God saw that the light was good, and God separated the light from the darkness.
1:5 神称光为昼，称暗为夜；有晚上，有早晨，这是第一日。
And God called the light Day, and the darkness He called Night. And there was evening and there was morning, one day.
1:6 神说，诸水之间要有广阔的空间，将水与水分开。
And God said, Let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters, and let it separate the waters from the waters.
1:7 神就造出天空，将天空以下的水，与天空以上的水分开；事就这样成了。
And God made the expanse and separated the waters which were under the expanse from the waters which were above the expanse, and it was so.
1:8 神称天空为天；有晚上，有早晨，是第二日。
And God called the expanse Heaven. And there was evening and there was morning, a second day.
1:9 神说，天以下的水要聚在一处，使旱地露出来；事就这样成了。
And God said, Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together into one place, and let the dry land appear; and it was so.
1:10 神称旱地为地，称水的聚处为海；神看是好的。
And God called the dry land Earth, and the gathering together of the waters He called Seas; and God saw that it was good.
1:11 神说，地要长出青草，和结种子的菜蔬，并结果子的树木，各从其类，果子都包着核；事就这样成了。
And God said, Let the earth sprout grass, herbs yielding seed, and fruit trees bearing fruit according to their kind with their seed in them upon the earth; and it
was so.
1:12 于是地生出青草，和结种子的菜蔬，各从其类，并结果子的树木，各从其类，果子都包着核；神看是好的。
And the earth brought forth grass, herbs yielding seed according to their kind, and trees bearing fruit with their seed in them according to their kind; and God saw
that it was good.
1:13 有晚上，有早晨，是第三日。
And there was evening and there was morning, a third day.
1:14 神说，天上穹苍之中要有光体，可以分昼夜，作记号，定节令、日子、年岁；
And God said, Let there be light-bearers in the expanse of heaven to separate the day from the night, and let them be for signs and for seasons and for days
and years;
1:15 并要发光在天上穹苍之中，普照在地上；事就这样成了。
And let them be light-bearers in the expanse of heaven to give light on the earth; and it was so.
1:16 于是神造了两个大的光体，大的管昼，小的管夜；又造众星。
And God made the two great light-bearers, the greater light-bearer to rule the day and the lesser light-bearer to rule the night, and the stars.
1:17 就把这些光体摆设在天上穹苍之中，普照在地上，
And God set them in the expanse of heaven to give light on the earth
1:18 管理昼夜，分别光暗；神看是好的。
And to rule over the day and over the night and to separate the light from the darkness, and God saw that it was good.
1:19 有晚上，有早晨，是第四日。
And there was evening and there was morning, a fourth day.
1:20 神说，水要多多滋生有生命的物；要有禽鸟飞在地面以上，天空之中。
And God said, Let the waters swarm with swarms of living animals, and let birds fly above the earth in the open expanse of heaven.
1:21 神就创造大鱼，和水中所滋生各样有生命的动物，各从其类；又创造各样飞鸟，各从其类；神看是好的。
And God created the great sea creatures and every living animal that moves, with which the waters swarmed, according to their kind, and every winged bird
according to its kind; and God saw that it was good.
1:22 神就赐福给这一切，说，要繁衍增多，充满海中的水；禽鸟也要增多在地上。
And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let the birds multiply on the earth.
1:23 有晚上，有早晨，是第五日。
And there was evening and there was morning, a fifth day.
1:24 神说，地要生出有生命的物，各从其类；牲畜、爬物、走兽，各从其类；事就这样成了。
And God said, Let the earth bring forth living animals according to their kind, cattle and creeping things and animals of the earth according to their kind; and it
was so.
1:25 于是神造出走兽，各从其类；牲畜各从其类；地上一切爬物，各从其类；神看是好的。
And God made the animals of the earth according to their kind and the cattle according to their kind and everything that creeps on the ground according to its
kind, and God saw that it was good.
1:26 神说，我们要按着我们的形像，照着我们的样式造人，使他们管理海里的鱼、空中的鸟、地上的牲畜、和全地、并地上所爬的一切爬物。
And God said, Let Us make man in Our image, according to Our likeness; and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of heaven and
over the cattle and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth.
1:27 神就按着自己的形像创造人，乃是按着神的形像创造他；创造他们有男有女。
And God created man in His own image; in the image of God He created him; male and female He created them.
1:28 神就赐福给他们；又对他们说，要繁衍增多，遍满地面，并制伏这地，也要管理海里的鱼、空中的鸟、和地上各样行动的活物。
2
And God blessed them; and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the
birds of heaven and over every living thing that moves upon the earth.
1:29 神说，看哪，我将遍地上各样结种子的菜蔬，和各样结有核果子的树，赐给你们作食物。
And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb yielding seed that is on the surface of all the earth and every tree which has fruit yielding seed; it shall be for
you as food.
1:30 至于地上各样的走兽和空中各样的飞鸟，并各样爬在地上有生命的物，我将青草赐给它们作食物；事就这样成了。
And to every animal of the earth and to every bird of heaven and to everything that creeps upon the earth, in which is a living soul, I have given every green herb
for food; and it was so.
1:31 神看一切所造的都甚好；有晚上，有早晨，是第六日。
And God saw everything that He had made, and indeed, it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning, the sixth day.
创世记 Genesis 第 2 章
2:1 天地万物都造齐了。
Thus the heavens and the earth and all their host were finished.
2:2 到第七日，神造作的工已经完毕，就在第七日歇了祂一切造作的工，安息了。
And on the seventh day God finished His work which He had done, and He rested on the seventh day from all His work which He had done.
2:3 神赐福给第七日，将其分别为圣，因为在这日神歇了祂一切创造和造作的工，就安息了。
And God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it because in it He rested from all His work which God had created and made.
2:4 诸天与地创造的来历，乃是这样。在耶和华神造地造天的日子，
These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created. When Jehovah God made earth and heaven,
2:5 地上还没有草木，田间的菜蔬还没有长起来，因为耶和华神还没有降雨在地上，也没有人耕地。
And no plant of the field was yet in the earth, and no herb of the field had yet sprung up-for Jehovah God had not caused it to rain upon the earth, and there
was not a man to work the ground,
2:6 只有雾气从地上腾，滋润遍地。
But a mist went up from the earth and watered the whole surface of the ground -
2:7 耶和华神用地上的尘土塑造人，将生命之气吹在他鼻孔里，人就成了活的魂。
Jehovah God formed man with the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul.
2:8 耶和华神在东方的伊甸栽植了一个园子，把所塑造的人安放在那里。
And Jehovah God planted a garden in Eden, in the east; and there He put the man whom He had formed.
2:9 耶和华神使各样的树从地里长出来，可以悦人的眼目，也好作食物；园子当中有生命树，还有善恶知识树。
And out of the ground Jehovah God caused to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food, as well as the tree of life in the middle of the
garden and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.
2:10 有一道河从伊甸流出来滋润那园子，从那里分为四道。
And a river went forth from Eden to water the garden, and from there it divided and became four branches.
2:11 第一道名叫比逊，就是环绕哈腓拉全地的，在那里有金子。
The name of the first is Pishon; it is the one that goes around the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold.
2:12 并且那地的金子是好的；在那里又有珍珠和红玛瑙。
And the gold of that land is good; bdellium and onyx stone are there.
2:13 第二道河名叫基训，就是环绕古实全地的。
And the name of the second river is Gihon; it is the one that goes around the whole land of Cush.
2:14 第三道河名叫希底结，流在亚述的东边。第四道河就是伯拉河。
And the name of the third river is Hiddekel; it is the one that goes east of Assyria. And the fourth river is the Euphrates.
2:15 耶和华神将那人安置在伊甸园，使他耕种看守。
And Jehovah God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to work it and to keep it.
2:16 耶和华神吩咐那人说，园中各样树上的果子，你可以随意吃，
And Jehovah God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden you may eat freely,
2:17 只是善恶知识树上的果子，你不可吃，因为你吃的日子必定死。
But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, of it you shall not eat; for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die.
2:18 耶和华神说，那人独居不好，我要为他造一个帮助者作他的配偶。
And Jehovah God said, It is not good for the man to be alone; I will make him a helper as his counterpart.
2:19 耶和华神把祂用土所造的野地各样走兽，和空中各样飞鸟，都带到那人面前，看他叫什么；那人怎样叫各样的活物，那就是它的名。
And Jehovah God formed from the ground every animal of the field and every bird of heaven, and brought them to the man to see what he would call them; and
whatever the man called any living animal, that was its name.
2:20 那人便给一切的牲畜、空中的飞鸟、和野地各样的走兽都起了名，只是亚当没有找到一个帮助者作他的配偶。
And the man gave names to all cattle and to the birds of heaven and to every animal of the field, but for Adam there was not found a helper as his counterpart.
2:21 耶和华神使那人沉睡，他就睡了，于是取了他的一条肋骨，又把肉在原处合起来。
And Jehovah God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and he slept; and He took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh in its place.
2:22 耶和华神就用那人身上所取的肋骨，建造成一个女人，领她到那人跟前。
And Jehovah God built the rib, which He had taken from the man, into a woman and brought her to the man.
2:23 那人说，这一次这是我骨中的骨，肉中的肉，可以称这为女人，因为这是从男人身上取出来的。
And the man said, This time this is bone of my bones And flesh of my flesh; This one shall be called Woman Because out of Man this one was taken.
2:24 因此，人要离开父母，与妻子联合，二人成为一体。
Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and shall cleave to his wife, and they shall become one flesh.
2:25 当时那人和他妻子，二人赤身露体，彼此并不觉得羞耻。
And both the man and his wife were naked and were not ashamed before each other.
3
创世记 Genesis 第 3 章
3:1 耶和华神所造的，惟有蛇比田野一切的活物更狡猾。蛇对女人说，神岂是真说，你们不可吃园中所有树上的果子么？
Now the serpent was more crafty than every other animal of the field which Jehovah God had made. And he said to the woman, Did God really say, You shall not
eat of any tree of the garden?
3:2 女人对蛇说，园中树上的果子，我们可以吃，
And the woman said to the serpent, Of the fruit of the trees of the garden we may eat;
3:3 惟有园当中那棵树上的果子，神曾说，你们不可吃，也不可摸，免得你们死。
But of the fruit of the tree which is in the middle of the garden, God has said, You shall not eat of it, nor shall you touch it, lest you die.
3:4 蛇对女人说，你们不一定死；
And the serpent said to the woman, You shall not surely die!
3:5 因为神知道，你们吃的日子眼睛就开了，你们便如神知道善恶。
For God knows that in the day you eat of it your eyes will be opened, and you will become like God, knowing good and evil.
3:6 于是女人见那棵树的果子好作食物，也悦人的眼目，且是可喜爱的，能使人有智慧，就摘下果子来吃了，又给与她一起的丈夫，她丈夫也吃了。
And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make oneself wise, she
took of its fruit and ate; and she also gave some to her husband with her, and he ate.
3:7 他们二人的眼睛就开了，才知道自己是赤身露体的；他们便拿无花果树的叶子，为自己编作裙子。
And the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked; and they sewed fig leaves together and made loincloths for themselves.
3:8 天凉的时候，耶和华神在园中行走，那人和他妻子听见神的声音，就藏在园里的树木中，躲避耶和华神的面。
And they heard the sound of Jehovah God walking about in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of
Jehovah God among the trees of the garden.
3:9 耶和华神呼唤那人，对他说，你在那里？
And Jehovah God called to the man and said to him, Where are you?
3:10 他说，我在园中听见你的声音，我就害怕，因为我是赤身露体的；所以我藏了起来。
And he said, I heard the sound of You in the garden, and I was afraid because I am naked; so I hid myself.
3:11 耶和华神说，谁告诉你，你是赤身露体的呢？莫非你吃了我吩咐你不可吃的那树上的果子么？
And He said, Who told you that you are naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat?
3:12 那人说，你所赐给我，与我一起的女人，她把那树上的果子给我，我就吃了。
And the man said, The woman whom You gave to be with me, she gave me fruit from the tree, and I ate.
3:13 耶和华神对女人说，你作的是什么事？女人说，那蛇诱骗我，我就吃了。
And Jehovah God said to the woman, What is this that you have done? And the woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate.
3:14 耶和华神对蛇说，你既作了这事，就必受咒诅，比一切的牲畜和田野的活物更甚。你必用肚子行走，终身吃土。
And Jehovah God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, You are cursed more than all the cattle And more than all the animals of the field: Upon your
stomach you will go, And dust you will eat All the days of your life.
3:15 我又要叫你和女人彼此为仇，你的后裔和女人的后裔也彼此为仇；女人的后裔要伤你的头，你要伤他的脚跟。
And I will put enmity Between you and the woman And between your seed and her seed; He will bruise you on the head, But you will bruise him on the heel.
3:16 又对女人说，我必多多加增你怀胎的苦楚，你生产儿女必受苦楚；你必恋慕你丈夫，你丈夫必管辖你。
To the woman He said, I will greatly multiply Your pain in your childbearing; In pain you will bring forth children. And your desire will be to your husband, And he
will rule over you.
3:17 又对亚当说，你既听妻子的话，吃了我所吩咐你不可吃的那树上的果子，地必因你的缘故受咒诅；你必终身劳苦，才能从地里得吃的。
And to Adam He said, Because you listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree concerning which I commanded you, saying, You shall not eat of
it; Cursed is the ground because of you; In toil will you eat of it All the days of your life.
3:18 地必给你长出荆棘和蒺藜来，你也要吃田间的菜蔬。
And thorns and thistles it will bring forth for you, And you will eat the herb of the field;
3:19 你必汗流满面才得糊口，直到你归了土，因为你是从土取出的；你本是尘土，仍要归于尘土。
By the sweat of your face You will eat bread Until you return to the ground, Because from it you were taken; For dust you are, And to dust you shall return.
3:20 亚当给他妻子起名叫夏娃，因为她是众生之母。
And the man called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all living.
3:21 耶和华神为亚当和他妻子用皮子作衣服给他们穿。
And Jehovah God made for Adam and for his wife coats of skins and clothed them.
3:22 耶和华神说，那人已经与我们相似，知道善恶；现在恐怕他伸手又摘生命树的果子吃，就永远活着。
And Jehovah God said, Behold, the man has become like one of Us, knowing good and evil; and now, lest he put forth his hand and take also from the tree of life
and eat and live forever -
3:23 耶和华神便打发他出伊甸园去，耕种他所出自之土。
Therefore Jehovah God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to work the ground from which he was taken.
3:24 于是把那人赶出去了；又在伊甸园的东边，安设基路伯和四面转动发火焰的剑，把守生命树的道路。
So He drove the man out, and at the east of the garden of Eden He placed the cherubim and a flaming sword which turned in every direction to guard the way to
the tree of life.
创世记 Genesis 第 4 章
4:1 那人和他妻子夏娃同房，夏娃就怀孕，生了该隐；便说，我得了一个男子，耶和华。
And the man knew Eve his wife, and she conceived and gave birth to Cain and said, I have acquired a man, Jehovah.
4:2 又生了该隐的弟弟亚伯。亚伯是牧羊的，该隐是耕地的。
4
And again she gave birth to his brother Abel. And Abel was a tender of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground.
4:3 有一日，该隐拿地里的出产为供物献给耶和华；
And in the course of time Cain brought an offering to Jehovah from the fruit of the ground.
4:4 亚伯也将他羊群中头生的，特别是羊的脂油献上。耶和华看中了亚伯和他的供物，
And Abel also brought an offering from the firstlings of his flock, that is, from their fat portions. And Jehovah had regard for Abel and for his offering.
4:5 只是看不中该隐和他的供物。该隐就大大发怒，垂下脸来。
But for Cain and for his offering He had no regard. And Cain became very angry, and his countenance fell.
4:6 耶和华对该隐说，你为什么发怒？你为什么垂下脸来？
And Jehovah said to Cain, Why are you angry, and why has your countenance fallen?
4:7 你若行得好，岂不扬起脸来么？你若行得不好，罪就伏在门前；他要恋慕你，但你必须管辖他。
If you do well, will not your countenance be lifted up? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door; and his desire is for you, but you must rule over him.
4:8 该隐对他弟弟亚伯说，我们往田间去罢。二人正在田间，该隐起来打他弟弟亚伯，把他杀了。
And Cain said to Abel his brother, Let us go into the field. And when they were in the field, Cain rose up against Abel his brother and slew him.
4:9 耶和华对该隐说，你弟弟亚伯在那里？他说，我不知道。我岂是看守我弟弟的么？
Then Jehovah said to Cain, Where is Abel your brother? And he said, I do not know. Am I my brother's keeper?
4:10 耶和华说，你作了什么事？你弟弟的血有声音从地里向我哀告。
And He said, What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood is crying out to Me from the ground.
4:11 地开了口，从你手里接受你弟弟的血；现在你必从这地受咒诅。
And now you are cursed from the ground, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand.
4:12 你耕地，地不再给你效力；你必流离飘荡在地上。
When you till the ground, it will no longer yield its strength to you. You will be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth.
4:13 该隐对耶和华说，我的刑罚太重，过于我所能承担的。
And Cain said to Jehovah, My punishment is greater than I can bear.
4:14 你今日赶逐我离开这地的面，以致我不得见你的面；我必流离飘荡在地上，凡遇见我的必杀我。
Now You have driven me out this day from the face of the ground, and from Your face I will be hidden; and I will be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth, and
whoever finds me will kill me.
4:15 耶和华对他说，既是这样，凡杀该隐的，必遭报七倍。耶和华就在该隐身上作一个记号，免得人遇见就击杀他。
And Jehovah said to him, Therefore whoever kills Cain, vengeance will be taken on him sevenfold. And Jehovah put a mark on Cain, so that anyone who found
him would not strike him.
4:16 于是该隐离开耶和华的面，去住在伊甸东边挪得之地。
And Cain went forth from the presence of Jehovah and dwelt in the land of Nod, east of Eden.
4:17 该隐与妻子同房，他妻子就怀孕，生了以诺。该隐建造了一座城，并按着他儿子的名，将那城叫作以诺。
And Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and gave birth to Enoch; and he built a city and called the name of the city after the name of his son Enoch.
4:18 以诺生以拿，以拿生米户雅利，米户雅利生玛土撒利，玛土撒利生拉麦。
And Irad was born to Enoch, and Irad begot Mehujael, and Mehujael begot Methushael, and Methushael begot Lamech.
4:19 拉麦娶了两个妻子，一个名叫亚大，另一个名叫洗拉。
And Lamech took two wives for himself: The name of the first was Adah, and the name of the second Zillah.
4:20 亚大生雅八；雅八是居住帐棚、牧养牲畜之人的始祖。
And Adah gave birth to Jabal; he was the father of those who dwell in tents and raise cattle.
4:21 雅八的兄弟名叫犹八；他是一切弹琴吹箫之人的始祖。
And his brother's name was Jubal; he was the father of all those who play the lyre and pipe.
4:22 洗拉也生了土八该隐；他是打造各样铜铁利器的。土八该隐的妹妹是拿玛。
And Zillah also gave birth to Tubal-cain, the forger of every cutting instrument of bronze and iron; and the sister of Tubal-cain was Naamah.
4:23 拉麦对他的两个妻子说，亚大和洗拉，听我的声音；拉麦的妻子，听我的言语：壮年人伤我，我把他杀了；少年人打我，我把他害了。
And Lamech said to his wives, Adah and Zillah, listen to my voice; O wives of Lamech, hearken to my speech; For I have slain a man for wounding me, Even a
young man for striking me.
4:24 若杀该隐遭报七倍，杀拉麦必遭报七十七倍。
If Cain is avenged sevenfold, Then Lamech seventy-sevenfold.
4:25 亚当又与妻子同房；她就生了一个儿子，给他起名叫塞特，说，神给我另立了一个后裔代替亚伯，因为该隐杀了他。
And Adam knew his wife again; and she gave birth to a son and called his name Seth; for, she said, God has appointed me another seed instead of Abel,
because Cain slew him.
4:26 塞特也生了一个儿子，起名叫以挪士。在那时候，人开始呼求耶和华的名。
And to Seth also a son was born, and he called his name Enosh. At that time men began to call upon the name of Jehovah.
创世记 Genesis 第 5 章
5:1 亚当的后代记在下面。当神创造亚当的日子，乃是按着祂的样式造的。
This is the book of the generations of Adam. When God created Adam, He made him in the likeness of God.
5:2 神创造他们有男有女；在他们被创造的日子，神赐福给他们，称他们的名为亚当。
Male and female He created them, and He blessed them and called their name Adam, on the day when they were created.
5:3 亚当活到一百三十岁，生了一个儿子，样式和形像与自己相似，就给他起名叫塞特。
And Adam lived one hundred thirty years and begot a son in his likeness according to his image, and he called his name Seth.
5:4 亚当生塞特之后，又在世八百年，并且生儿生女。
And the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
5:5 亚当共活了九百三十岁就死了。
And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred thirty years, and he died.
5
5:6 塞特活到一百零五岁，生了以挪士。
And Seth lived one hundred five years and begot Enosh.
5:7 塞特生以挪士之后，又活了八百零七年，并且生儿生女。
And Seth lived after he had begotten Enosh eight hundred seven years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
5:8 塞特共活了九百一十二岁就死了。
And all the days of Seth were nine hundred twelve years, and he died.
5:9 以挪士活到九十岁，生了该南。
And Enosh lived ninety years and begot Kenan.
5:10 以挪士生该南之后，又活了八百一十五年，并且生儿生女。
And Enosh lived after he had begotten Kenan eight hundred fifteen years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
5:11 以挪士共活了九百零五岁就死了。
And all the days of Enosh were nine hundred five years, and he died.
5:12 该南活到七十岁，生了玛勒列。
And Kenan lived seventy years and begot Mahalalel.
5:13 该南生玛勒列之后，又活了八百四十年，并且生儿生女。
And Kenan lived after he had begotten Mahalalel eight hundred forty years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
5:14 该南共活了九百一十岁就死了。
And all the days of Kenan were nine hundred ten years, and he died.
5:15 玛勒列活到六十五岁，生了雅列。
And Mahalalel lived sixty-five years and begot Jared.
5:16 玛勒列生雅列之后，又活了八百三十年，并且生儿生女。
And Mahalalel lived after he had begotten Jared eight hundred thirty years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
5:17 玛勒列共活了八百九十五岁就死了。
And all the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred ninety-five years, and he died.
5:18 雅列活到一百六十二岁，生了以诺。
And Jared lived a hundred sixty-two years and begot Enoch.
5:19 雅列生以诺之后，又活了八百年，并且生儿生女。
And Jared lived after he had begotten Enoch eight hundred years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
5:20 雅列共活了九百六十二岁就死了。
And all the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty-two years, and he died.
5:21 以诺活到六十五岁，生了玛土撒拉。
And Enoch lived sixty-five years and begot Methuselah.
5:22 以诺生玛土撒拉之后，与神同行三百年，并且生儿生女。
And Enoch walked with God after he had begotten Methuselah three hundred years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
5:23 以诺共活了三百六十五岁。
And all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty-five years.
5:24 以诺与神同行，神将他取去，他就不在世了。
And Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him.
5:25 玛土撒拉活到一百八十七岁，生了拉麦。
And Methuselah lived one hundred eighty-seven years and begot Lamech.
5:26 玛土撒拉生拉麦之后，又活了七百八十二年，并且生儿生女。
And Methuselah lived after he had begotten Lamech seven hundred eighty-two years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
5:27 玛土撒拉共活了九百六十九岁就死了。
And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty-nine years, and he died.
5:28 拉麦活到一百八十二岁，生了一个儿子，
And Lamech lived a hundred eighty-two years and begot a son.
5:29 给他起名叫挪亚，说，这个儿子必为我们的操作和手中的劳苦安慰我们；这操作与劳苦是因为地受了耶和华的咒诅。
And he called his name Noah, saying, This one will give us rest from our work and from the toil of our hands, which come because of the ground which Jehovah
has cursed.
5:30 拉麦生挪亚之后，又活了五百九十五年，并且生儿生女。
And Lamech lived after he had begotten Noah five hundred ninety-five years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
5:31 拉麦共活了七百七十七岁就死了。
And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy-seven years, and he died.
5:32 挪亚五百岁生了闪、含、雅弗。
And Noah was five hundred years old. And Noah begot Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
创世记 Genesis 第 6 章
6:1 当人在地上多起来，又生女儿的时候，
And when men began to multiply on the surface of the ground, and daughters were born to them,
6:2 神的儿子们看见人的女子美貌，就随意挑选，娶来为妻。
The sons of God saw that the daughters of men were fair; and they took wives for themselves from all whom they chose.
6:3 耶和华说，人既是肉体，我的灵就不永远与他相争；然而他的日子还有一百二十年。
And Jehovah said, My Spirit will not strive with man forever, for he indeed is flesh; so his days will be one hundred twenty years.
6:4 神的儿子们和人的女子交合生子，从那时起地上就有了拿非利人；他们就是上古英武有名的人。
6
The Nephilim were on the earth in those days-and also afterward-when the sons of God came in to the daughters of men, and they gave birth to children to
them; these were the mighty men who were of old the men of renown.
6:5 耶和华见人在地上罪恶甚大，心中终日所思念的尽都是恶；
And Jehovah saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.
6:6 耶和华就后悔造人在地上，心中忧伤。
And Jehovah repented that He had made man on the earth, and it grieved Him in His heart.
6:7 耶和华说，我要将所创造的人，连人带走兽、爬物、以及空中的飞鸟，都从地上除灭，因为我后悔造了他们。
And Jehovah said, I will blot out the man whom I have created from the surface of the ground, from man to beast to creeping things to the birds of heaven; for I
repent that I have made them.
6:8 但挪亚在耶和华眼前蒙恩。
But Noah found favor in the sight of Jehovah.
6:9 挪亚的后代记在下面。挪亚是个义人，在当时的世代是个完全人；挪亚与神同行。
These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a righteous man, blameless in his generations; and Noah walked with God.
6:10 挪亚生了三个儿子，就是闪、含、雅弗。
And Noah begot three sons: Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
6:11 全地在神面前败坏，地上满了强暴。
And the earth was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence.
6:12 神观看全地，见是败坏了；凡属肉体的人，在地上的行径都败坏了。
And God looked on the earth, and behold, it was corrupt; for all flesh had corrupted its way upon the earth.
6:13 神就对挪亚说，凡属肉体之人的结局，已经来到我面前；因为地上满了他们的强暴，我要把他们和地一并毁灭。
And God said to Noah, The end of all flesh has come before Me, for the earth is filled with violence because of them; and now I am about to destroy them with
the earth.
6:14 你要用歌斐木造一只方舟，里面要有隔间，方舟内外要涂上松香。
Make yourself an ark of gopher wood; you shall make rooms in the ark and shall cover it within and without with pitch.
6:15 方舟的造法乃是这样：要长三百肘，宽五十肘，高三十肘。
And this is how you shall make it: The length of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, its width fifty cubits, and its height thirty cubits.
6:16 方舟顶上要造一个透光处，高一肘；方舟的门要开在旁边；方舟要分上、中、下三层。
You shall make an opening for light for the ark, and you shall finish it up to a cubit from the top; and you shall put the entrance of the ark in its side; you shall
make it with lower, second, and third stories.
6:17 看哪，我要使洪水泛滥在地上，毁灭天下一切有血肉、有气息的；凡在地上的无一不死。
And now I am about to bring a flood of water upon the earth to destroy from under heaven all flesh in which is the breath of life; everything that is on the earth
shall die.
6:18 我却要与你立约；你同你的儿子、妻子与儿媳，都要进入方舟。
But I will establish My covenant with you, and you shall come into the ark, you and your sons and your wife and your sons' wives with you.
6:19 凡有血肉的活物，每样两个，有公有母，你要带进方舟，好与你一同保全生命。
And of every living thing, of all flesh, two of every kind you shall bring into the ark to preserve them alive with you; they shall be male and female.
6:20 飞鸟各从其类，牲畜各从其类，地上的爬物各从其类，每样两个，要到你那里，好保全生命。
Of the birds according to their kind and of the cattle according to their kind, of every creeping thing of the ground according to its kind, two of every kind will come
to you in order to preserve them alive.
6:21 至于你，要拿各样可吃的食物，积聚起来，好作你和它们的食物。
And for your part, take some of every kind of food that is edible, and gather it to yourself, and it will be for food for you and for them.
6:22 挪亚就这样行；凡神所吩咐的，他都照样行了。
And Noah did this; according to all that God commanded him, so he did.
创世记 Genesis 第 7 章
7:1 耶和华对挪亚说，你和你全家都要进入方舟；因为在这世代中，我见只有你在我面前是义的。
Then Jehovah said to Noah, Come into the ark, you and all your household, for you alone I have seen to be righteous before Me in this generation.
7:2 凡洁净的畜类，你要带七对公母；不洁净的畜类，你要带一对公母；
Of every clean animal you shall take with you seven pairs, a male and its female; and of the animals that are not clean two, a male and its female;
7:3 空中的飞鸟，也要带七对公母；可以留种，活在全地上，
Also of the birds of heaven, seven pairs, male and female; to preserve their offspring alive on the surface of all the earth.
7:4 因为再过七天，我要降雨在地上四十昼四十夜，把我所造的各种活物都从地上除灭。
For in seven more days I will cause it to rain on the earth forty days and forty nights, and every living being that I have made I will blot out from the surface of the
ground.
7:5 挪亚就遵着耶和华所吩咐的一切行了。
And Noah did according to all that Jehovah commanded him.
7:6 当洪水泛滥在地上的时候，挪亚正六百岁。
And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters came upon the earth.
7:7 挪亚就同他的儿子、妻子和儿媳，都进入方舟，躲避洪水。
And Noah and his sons and his wife and his sons' wives with him went into the ark because of the waters of the flood.
7:8 洁净的畜类和不洁净的畜类，飞鸟并地上一切的爬物，
Of clean animals and of animals that are not clean and of birds and of everything that creeps upon the ground,
7:9 都是一对一对的，有公有母，到挪亚那里进入方舟，正如神所吩咐挪亚的。
Two by two they came into the ark to Noah, male and female, as God had commanded Noah.
7:10 过了那七天，洪水泛滥在地上。
7
And after the seven days the waters of the flood came upon the earth.
7:11 当挪亚六百岁，二月十七日那一天，大渊的一切泉源都裂开了，天上的窗户也敞开了，
In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on that very day all the springs of the great deep burst open,
and the windows of heaven were opened.
7:12 四十昼四十夜降雨在地上。
And the rain fell upon the earth forty days and forty nights.
7:13 正当那日，挪亚和他三个儿子闪、含、雅弗，并挪亚的妻子和三个儿媳，都进入方舟。
On that very same day Noah and Shem and Ham and Japheth, the sons of Noah, and Noah's wife and the three wives of his sons with them entered the ark,
7:14 他们一家，和一切走兽，各从其类，一切牲畜，各从其类，一切爬在地上的爬物，各从其类，一切禽鸟，各从其类，都进入方舟。
They and every animal according to its kind and all the cattle according to their kind and every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth according to its kind and
every bird according to its kind-every bird, every winged creature.
7:15 凡有血肉、有生命气息的，都一对一对的到挪亚那里，进入方舟。
And they went into the ark to Noah, two by two of all flesh in which was the breath of life.
7:16 凡有血肉进入方舟的，都是有公有母，正如神所吩咐挪亚的；耶和华就把他关在方舟里头。
And those who went in, male and female of all flesh, went in as God had commanded him; and Jehovah shut the door behind him.
7:17 洪水泛滥在地上四十天，水往上涨，把方舟浮起，方舟就离地升高。
And the flood was on the earth forty days; and the waters increased and lifted up the ark, and it rose high above the earth.
7:18 水势浩大，在地上大大上涨，方舟在水面上漂来漂去。
And the waters prevailed and increased greatly upon the earth, and the ark went about on the surface of the waters.
7:19 水势在地上极其浩大，普天下一切高山都淹没了。
And when the waters had prevailed exceedingly upon the earth, all the high mountains that were under the entire heaven were covered.
7:20 水势浩大，比山高过十五肘，山岭都淹没了。
The waters prevailed fifteen cubits higher once the mountains were covered.
7:21 凡在地上有血肉的动物，就是飞鸟、牲畜、走兽，和爬在地上的爬物，以及所有的人，都死了。
And all flesh that moved upon the earth expired: birds and cattle and animals and every swarming thing that swarms upon the earth and all mankind.
7:22 凡在旱地上，鼻孔有生命气息的，都死了。
Everything in whose nostrils was the breath of the spirit of life, of all that was on the dry land, died.
7:23 这样，神把地上一切的活物，连人带走兽、爬物、以及空中的飞鸟，都除灭了。这些都从地上除灭了，只留下挪亚和那些与他同在方舟里的。
Thus He blotted out every living being that was upon the surface of the ground, from man to beast to creeping things to the birds of heaven. And they were
blotted out from the earth, and only Noah was left, and those who were with him in the ark.
7:24 水势浩大，在地上共一百五十天。
And the waters prevailed upon the earth one hundred fifty days.
创世记 Genesis 第 8 章
8:1 神记念挪亚和方舟里同挪亚一起的一切走兽牲畜；神叫风吹地，水就渐落。
And God remembered Noah and all the animals and all the cattle that were with him in the ark; and God made a wind pass over the earth, and the waters
subsided.
8:2 深渊的泉源和天上的窗户都闭塞了，天上的雨也止住了。
The springs of the deep and the windows of heaven were also stopped, and the rain from the heavens was restrained;
8:3 水从地上渐退。过了一百五十天，水就渐消。
And the waters receded steadily from upon the earth. So at the end of one hundred fifty days the waters began to diminish.
8:4 七月十七日，方舟停在亚拉腊山上。
And the ark came to rest in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, upon the mountains of Ararat.
8:5 水又渐消，到十月初一日，山顶都现出来了。
And the waters diminished steadily until the tenth month. In the tenth month, on the first day of the month, the tops of the mountains were seen.
8:6 过了四十天，挪亚开了他所造方舟的窗户，
And at the end of forty days Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made.
8:7 放出一只乌鸦；那乌鸦飞来飞去，直到地上的水都干了。
And he sent out the raven; and it went out, going to and fro until the waters had dried up from the earth.
8:8 他又放出一只鸽子，要看看水从地上退了没有。
And he sent out the dove from him to see if the waters had abated from the surface of the ground.
8:9 但遍地上都是水，鸽子找不着落脚之地，就回到方舟挪亚那里，挪亚伸手把鸽子接进方舟。
But the dove found no resting place for the sole of her foot, so she returned to him to the ark; for the waters were on the surface of the whole earth. And he put
out his hand and took her and brought her to himself into the ark.
8:10 他又等了七天，再把鸽子从方舟放出去。
And he waited yet another seven days, and again he sent out the dove from the ark.
8:11 到了晚上，鸽子回到他那里，嘴里叼着一片新拧下来的橄榄叶子，挪亚就知道地上的水退了。
And the dove came to him toward evening time, and there in her beak was a freshly plucked olive leaf. So Noah knew that the waters had abated from the earth.
8:12 他又等了七天，再放出鸽子，鸽子就不再回来了。
And he waited yet another seven days and sent out the dove, and she did not return to him again.
8:13 到挪亚六百零一岁，正月初一日，地上的水都干了。挪亚撤去方舟的盖观看，便见地面上干了。
And in the six hundred first year, in the first month, the first day of the month, the water was dried up from the earth; and Noah removed the covering of the ark
and saw that now the surface of the ground was dry.
8:14 到了二月二十七日，地就都干了。
And in the second month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, the earth was dry.
8
8:15 神对挪亚说，
And God spoke to Noah, saying,
8:16 你和你的妻子、儿子、儿媳都可以出方舟。
Go forth from the ark, you and your wife and your sons and your sons' wives with you;
8:17 在你那里凡有血肉的活物，就是飞鸟、牲畜、和一切爬在地上的爬物，都要带出来，叫它们在地上孳生，繁衍增多。
Bring out with you every living thing that is with you of all flesh-birds and cattle and every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth-that they may swarm on the
earth and be fruitful and multiply upon the earth.
8:18 于是挪亚和他的儿子、妻子、儿媳都出来了。
So Noah went forth, as well as his sons and his wife and his sons' wives with him.
8:19 一切走兽、爬物、飞鸟、和地上所有的动物，各从其类，也都出了方舟。
Every animal, every creeping thing, and every bird, everything that moves upon the earth, went forth from the ark according to their families.
8:20 挪亚为耶和华筑了一座坛，拿各类洁净的牲畜、飞鸟，献在坛上为燔祭。
And Noah built an altar to Jehovah and took of every clean beast and of every clean bird and offered burnt offerings on the altar.
8:21 耶和华闻了那怡爽的香气，就心里说，我不再因人的缘故咒诅地，(人从小时心里怀着恶念，)也不再按着我才行的，灭各种的活物了。
And Jehovah smelled the satisfying fragrance; and Jehovah said in His heart, I will never again curse the ground on account of man, for the imagination of man's
heart is evil from his youth; nor will I ever again smite everything living as I have done.
8:22 地还存留的时候，稼穑、寒暑、冬夏、昼夜，就永不停息了。
Throughout all the days that earth remains, Seed time and harvest, and cold and heat, And summer and winter, and day and night Shall not cease.
创世记 Genesis 第 9 章
9:1 神赐福给挪亚和他的儿子，对他们说，你们要繁衍增多，遍满了地。
And God blessed Noah and his sons and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth.
9:2 地上的各样走兽和空中的各样飞鸟，以及地上一切的爬物并海里一切的鱼，都必畏惧、惊怕你们；这一切都交在你们手中了。
And the fear of you and the terror of you shall be upon every animal of the earth and upon every bird of heaven, on everything that creeps on the ground and on
all the fish of the sea; into your hand they are delivered.
9:3 凡活着的动物都可以作你们的食物；这一切我都赐给你们，如同我将菜蔬赐给你们一样。
Every moving thing that lives shall be food for you; just as I gave you the green herb, so I have given you everything.
9:4 惟独肉带着生命，就是带着血，你们不可吃。
But flesh with its life, that is, its blood, you shall not eat.
9:5 你们生命的血，我必追讨。向兽，我必追讨；向人，向各人的弟兄，我也必追讨人的命。
And indeed your lifeblood I will require; from every animal I will require it. And from every man, from every man's brother, I will require the life of man.
9:6 凡流人血的，他的血也必被人所流，因为神造人是按自己的形像造的。
Whoever sheds man's blood, By man shall his blood be shed, For in the image of God He made man.
9:7 你们要繁衍增多，在地上孳生繁增。
And you, be fruitful and multiply, Abound on the earth and multiply in it.
9:8 神对挪亚和同他一起的儿子说，
Then God spoke to Noah and to his sons with him, saying,
9:9 看哪，我与你们和你们的后裔立约，
And I Myself now establish My covenant with you and with your seed after you
9:10 并与你们这里的一切活物，就是飞鸟、牲畜、走兽，凡从方舟出来地上的活物立约。
And with every living animal that is with you: the birds, the cattle, and every animal of the earth with you, of all that came out of the ark, every animal of the earth.
9:11 我与你们立约，凡有血肉的，不再被洪水灭绝，也不再有洪水毁坏地了。
And I establish My covenant with you, that never again will all flesh be cut off by the waters of the flood, and never again will there be a flood to destroy the earth.
9:12 神说，这是我与你们，并你们这里各样活物所立之约的记号，直到万代：
And God said, This is the sign of the covenant which I am making between Me and you and every living animal that is with you, for perpetual generations:
9:13 我把虹放在云彩中，这就作我与地立约的记号。
I set My bow in the clouds, and it shall be for a sign of a covenant between Me and the earth.
9:14 我使云彩遮地的时候，必有虹现在云彩中；
And when I bring clouds over the earth, and the bow is seen in the clouds,
9:15 我便记念我与你们，和各样有血肉的活物所立的约，水就再不泛滥，毁灭一切有血肉的物了。
I will remember My covenant which is between Me and you and every living animal of all flesh, and never again will the waters become a flood to destroy all
flesh.
9:16 虹必现在云彩中，我必观看，记念我与地上各样有血肉的活物所立的永约。
And the bow will be in the clouds, and I will look upon it to remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living animal of all flesh that is upon the
earth.
9:17 神对挪亚说，这就是我与地上一切有血肉之物立约的记号。
And God said to Noah, This is the sign of the covenant which I have established between Me and all flesh that is upon the earth.
9:18 出方舟挪亚的儿子是闪、含、雅弗；含是迦南的父亲。
Now the sons of Noah who came forth from the ark were Shem and Ham and Japheth. And Ham was the father of Canaan.
9:19 这是挪亚的三个儿子，他们的后裔散布在全地。
These three were the sons of Noah, and from these the whole earth was spread over.
9:20 挪亚作起农夫来，栽了一个葡萄园。
And Noah began to be a farmer, and he planted a vineyard.
9:21 他喝了园中的酒便醉了，在帐棚里赤着身子。
And he drank of the wine and became drunk. And he uncovered himself inside his tent.
9
9:22 迦南的父亲含看见他父亲赤身，就到外边告诉他的两个弟兄。
And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father and told his two brothers outside.
9:23 于是闪和雅弗拿件衣服搭在肩上，倒退着进去，遮盖他们父亲的赤身；他们背着脸，就没有看见父亲的赤身。
And Shem and Japheth took a garment and laid it upon both their shoulders, and they walked backward and covered the nakedness of their father. And their
faces were turned backward, so that they did not see their father's nakedness.
9:24 挪亚醒了酒，知道小儿子向他所作的事，
And Noah awoke from his wine and learned what his youngest son had done to him.
9:25 就说，迦南当受咒诅，必给他弟兄作奴仆的奴仆。
And he said, Cursed be Canaan: A servant of servants Shall he be to his brothers.
9:26 又说，耶和华闪的神，是当受颂赞的；愿迦南作闪的奴仆。
And he said, Blessed be Jehovah, The God of Shem; And let Canaan be his servant.
9:27 愿神使雅弗扩张，使他住在闪的帐棚里；又愿迦南作他的奴仆。
May God enlarge Japheth, And let him dwell in the tents of Shem, And let Canaan be his servant.
9:28 洪水以后，挪亚又活了三百五十年。
And Noah lived after the flood three hundred fifty years.
9:29 挪亚共活了九百五十岁就死了。
And all the days of Noah were nine hundred fifty years, and he died.
创世记 Genesis 第 10 章
10:1 挪亚的儿子闪、含、雅弗的后代记在下面。洪水以后，他们都生了儿子。
Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah, of Shem, Ham, and Japheth; and sons were born to them after the flood.
10:2 雅弗的儿子是歌篾、玛各、玛代、雅完、土巴、米设、提拉。
The sons of Japheth: Gomer and Magog and Madai and Javan and Tubal and Meshech and Tiras.
10:3 歌篾的儿子是亚实基拿、利法、陀迦玛。
And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz and Riphath and Togarmah.
10:4 雅完的子孙是以利沙、他施、基提人、罗单人。
And the sons of Javan: Elishah and Tarshish, Kittim and Rodanim.
10:5 这些人的后裔，在列国的岛屿和沿海一带分地居住，各按各的方言、家族、邦国。
From these the islands and coastal regions of the nations were separated into their lands, every one according to his tongue, according to their families, in their
nations.
10:6 含的儿子是古实、麦西、弗、迦南。
And the sons of Ham: Cush and Mizraim and Put and Canaan.
10:7 古实的儿子是西巴、哈腓拉、撒弗他、拉玛、撒弗提迦。拉玛的儿子是示巴、底但。
And the sons of Cush: Seba and Havilah and Sabtah and Raamah and Sabtecha. And the sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan.
10:8 古实又生宁录，他是地上最早的勇士。
And Cush begot Nimrod: He began to be a mighty one on the earth.
10:9 他在耶和华面前是个英勇的猎户，所以有话说，像宁录在耶和华面前是个英勇的猎户。
He was a mighty hunter before Jehovah; therefore it is said, Like Nimrod a mighty hunter before Jehovah.
10:10 他国的起头是巴别、以力、亚甲、甲尼，都在示拿地。
And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel and Erech and Accad and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.
10:11 他从那地出来往亚述去，建造尼尼微、利河伯、迦拉，
From that land he went into Assyria and built Nineveh and Rehoboth-ir and Calah
10:12 和尼尼微、迦拉中间的利鲜，就是那大城。
And Resen between Nineveh and Calah, that is, the great city.
10:13 麦西生路低人、亚拿米人、利哈比人、拿弗土希人、
And Mizraim begot the Ludim and the Anamim and the Lehabim and the Naphtuhim
10:14 帕斯鲁细人、迦斯路希人、迦斐托人；从迦斯路希人出来的有非利士人。
And the Pathrusim and the Casluhim, from which came the Philistines, and the Caphtorim.
10:15 迦南生长子西顿，又生赫、
And Canaan begot Sidon his firstborn and Heth
10:16 和耶布斯人、亚摩利人、革迦撒人、
And the Jebusites and the Amorites and the Girgashites
10:17 希未人、亚基人、西尼人、
And the Hivites and the Arkites and the Sinites
10:18 亚瓦底人、洗玛利人、哈马人，后来迦南的诸族散布出去了。
And the Arvadites and the Zemarites and the Hamathites, and afterward the families of the Canaanites were spread out.
10:19 迦南的境界是从西顿向基拉耳的路上，直到迦萨，又向所多玛、蛾摩拉、押玛、洗扁的路上，直到拉沙。
And the territory of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as you go toward Gerar, as far as Gaza, and as you go toward Sodom and Gomorrah and Admah and
Zeboiim, as far as Lasha.
10:20 这些就是含的子孙，各按他们的家族、方言、地土、邦国。
These are the sons of Ham, according to their families, according to their tongues, in their lands, in their nations.
10:21 雅弗的哥哥闪，是希伯所有子孙之祖，他也生了儿子。
And also to Shem, the father of all the children of Eber, the eldest brother of Japheth, children were born.
10:22 闪的儿子是以拦、亚述、亚法撒、路德、亚兰。
The sons of Shem: Elam and Asshur and Arpachshad and Lud and Aram.
10
10:23 亚兰的儿子是乌斯、户勒、基帖、玛施。
And the sons of Aram: Uz and Hul and Gether and Mash.
10:24 亚法撒生沙拉；沙拉生希伯。
And Arpachshad begot Shelah, and Shelah begot Eber.
10:25 希伯生了两个儿子，一个名叫法勒，因为那时人才分地居住，法勒的兄弟名叫约坍。
And to Eber were born two sons: The name of the one was Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided; and his brother's name was Joktan.
10:26 约坍生亚摩答、沙列、哈萨玛非、耶拉、
And Joktan begot Almodad and Sheleph and Hazarmaveth and Jerah
10:27 哈多兰、乌萨、德拉、
And Hadoram and Uzal and Diklah
10:28 俄巴路、亚比玛利、示巴、
And Obal and Abimael and Sheba
10:29 阿斐、哈腓拉、约巴，这些都是约坍的儿子。
And Ophir and Havilah and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan.
10:30 他们所住的地方是从米沙直到西发，东边的山地。
And their dwelling was from Mesha, as you go toward Sephar, the hill country of the east.
10:31 这些就是闪的子孙，各按他们的家族、方言、地土、邦国。
These are the sons of Shem, according to their families, according to their tongues, in their lands, according to their nations.
10:32 这些都是挪亚三个儿子的家族，各按他们的族系、邦国。洪水以后他们在地上分为邦国。
These are the families of the sons of Noah, according to their generations, in their nations; and from these the nations were separated on the earth after the flood.
创世记 Genesis 第 11 章
11:1 那时，全地的人只有一种语言，都说同样的话语。
And the whole earth had one language and the same speech.
11:2 他们往东边迁移的时候，在示拿地遇见一片平原，就住在那里。
And as they journeyed east, they found a plain in the land of Shinar; and they dwelt there.
11:3 他们彼此商量说，来罢，我们作砖，把砖烧透。他们就拿砖当石头，又拿石漆当灰泥。
And they said to one another, Come, let us make bricks and burn them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone, and they had tar for mortar.
11:4 他们说，来罢，我们建造一座城和一座塔，塔顶通天；我们要宣扬我们的名，免得我们分散在全地上。
And they said, Come, let us build ourselves a city and a tower whose top is in the heavens; and let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be scattered over the
surface of the whole earth.
11:5 耶和华降临，要看看世人所建造的城和塔。
And Jehovah came down to see the city and the tower which the children of men had built.
11:6 耶和华说，看哪，他们是一样的人民，都说一样的语言；这不过是他们开头要作的事，以后他们所图谋要作的，就没有能阻挡的了。
And Jehovah said, Behold, they are one people, and they all have one language; and this is only the beginning of what they will do; and now nothing which they
purpose to do will be kept from them.
11:7 来罢，我们下去，在那里变乱他们的语言，使他们的言语彼此不通。
Come, let Us go down and there confound their language, that they may not understand one another's speech.
11:8 于是耶和华使他们从那里分散在全地上；他们就停工，不造那城了。
So Jehovah scattered them from there over the surface of all the earth, and they ceased building the city.
11:9 因为耶和华在那里变乱全地人的语言，使众人分散在全地上，所以那城名叫巴别。
Therefore its name was called Babel, because there Jehovah confounded the language of all the earth, and from there Jehovah scattered them over the surface
of all the earth.
11:10 闪的后代记在下面：洪水以后二年，闪一百岁生了亚法撒。
These are the generations of Shem. Shem was one hundred years old when he begot Arpachshad, two years after the flood.
11:11 闪生亚法撒之后，又活了五百年，并且生儿生女。
And Shem lived after he had begotten Arpachshad five hundred years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
11:12 亚法撒活到三十五岁，生了沙拉。
And Arpachshad lived thirty-five years and begot Shelah.
11:13 亚法撒生沙拉之后，又活了四百零三年，并且生儿生女。
And Arpachshad lived after he had begotten Shelah four hundred three years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
11:14 沙拉活到三十岁，生了希伯。
And Shelah lived thirty years and begot Eber.
11:15 沙拉生希伯之后，又活了四百零三年，并且生儿生女。
And Shelah lived after he had begotten Eber four hundred three years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
11:16 希伯活到三十四岁，生了法勒。
And Eber lived thirty-four years and begot Peleg.
11:17 希伯生法勒之后，又活了四百三十年，并且生儿生女。
And Eber lived after he had begotten Peleg four hundred thirty years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
11:18 法勒活到三十岁，生了拉吴。
And Peleg lived thirty years and begot Reu.
11:19 法勒生拉吴之后，又活了二百零九年，并且生儿生女。
And Peleg lived after he had begotten Reu two hundred nine years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
11:20 拉吴活到三十二岁，生了西鹿。
And Reu lived thirty-two years and begot Serug.
11
11:21 拉吴生西鹿之后，又活了二百零七年，并且生儿生女。
And Reu lived after he had begotten Serug two hundred seven years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
11:22 西鹿活到三十岁，生了拿鹤。
And Serug lived thirty years and begot Nahor.
11:23 西鹿生拿鹤之后，又活了二百年，并且生儿生女。
And Serug lived after he had begotten Nahor two hundred years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
11:24 拿鹤活到二十九岁，生了他拉。
And Nahor lived twenty-nine years and begot Terah.
11:25 拿鹤生他拉之后，又活了一百一十九年，并且生儿生女。
And Nahor lived after he had begotten Terah one hundred nineteen years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
11:26 他拉活到七十岁，生了亚伯兰、拿鹤、哈兰。
And Terah lived seventy years and begot Abram, Nahor, and Haran.
11:27 他拉的后代记在下面：他拉生亚伯兰、拿鹤、哈兰；哈兰生罗得。
Now these are the generations of Terah. Terah begot Abram, Nahor, and Haran. And Haran begot Lot.
11:28 哈兰死在他的出生地迦勒底的吾珥，在他父亲他拉之先。
And Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his birth, in Ur of the Chaldeans.
11:29 亚伯兰、拿鹤各娶了妻子：亚伯兰的妻子名叫撒莱；拿鹤的妻子名叫密迦，是哈兰的女儿；哈兰是密迦和亦迦的父亲。
And Abram and Nahor took wives for themselves: The name of Abram's wife was Sarai, and the name of Nahor's wife was Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the
father of Milcah and the father of Iscah.
11:30 撒莱不生育，没有孩子。
And Sarai was barren; she had no child.
11:31 他拉带着他儿子亚伯兰和他孙子哈兰的儿子罗得，并他儿媳亚伯兰的妻子撒莱，一起出了迦勒底的吾珥，要往迦南地去；他们走到哈兰，就住在那里。
And Terah took Abram his son and Lot the son of Haran, his son's son, and Sarai his daughter-in-law, his son Abram's wife; and they went out together from Ur
of the Chaldeans to go to the land of Canaan, but when they came to Haran they settled there.
11:32 他拉共活了二百零五岁，就死在哈兰。
And the days of Terah were two hundred five years, and Terah died in Haran.
创世记 Genesis 第 12 章
12:1 耶和华对亚伯兰说，你要离开本地、亲族、父家，往我所要指示你的地去。
Now Jehovah said to Abram, Go from your land And from your relatives And from your father's house To the land that I will show you;
12:2 我必使你成为大国；我必赐福给你，使你的名为大；你也要使别人得福。
And I will make of you a great nation, And I will bless you And make your name great; And you shall be a blessing.
12:3 那为你祝福的，我必赐福与他；那咒诅你的，我必咒诅他。地上的万族都必因你得福。
And I will bless those who bless you, And he who curses you I will curse; And in you all the families of the earth will be blessed.
12:4 亚伯兰就照着耶和华的吩咐去了；罗得也和他同去。亚伯兰出哈兰的时候，年七十五岁。
So Abram went as Jehovah had spoken to him, and Lot went with him. Now Abram was seventy-five years old when he went out of Haran.
12:5 亚伯兰将他妻子撒莱和侄儿罗得，连他们在哈兰所积聚的家产、所得的人口，都带出来，往迦南地去。他们就到了迦南地。
And Abram took Sarai his wife and Lot his brother's son and all their possessions that they had gathered, and the souls that they had acquired in Haran, and they
went out to go to the land of Canaan. And they came to the land of Canaan.
12:6 亚伯兰经过那地，到了示剑地方、摩利橡树那里。当时迦南人住在那地。
And Abram passed through the land to the place of Shechem, to the oak of Moreh. And at that time the Canaanites were in the land.
12:7 耶和华向亚伯兰显现，说，我要把这地赐给你的后裔。亚伯兰就在那里为向他显现的耶和华筑了一座坛。
And Jehovah appeared to Abram and said, To your seed I will give this land. And there he built an altar to Jehovah who had appeared to him.
12:8 从那里他又迁到伯特利东边的山，支搭帐棚；西边是伯特利，东边是艾；他在那里又为耶和华筑了一座坛，并且呼求耶和华的名。
And he proceeded from there to the mountain on the east of Bethel and pitched his tent, with Bethel on the west and Ai on the east; and there he built an altar to
Jehovah and called upon the name of Jehovah.
12:9 后来亚伯兰渐渐迁往南地去。
And Abram journeyed onward, journeying toward the Negev.
12:10 那地遭遇饥荒；因饥荒甚重，亚伯兰就下埃及去，要在那里寄居。
And there was a famine in the land; and Abram went down to Egypt to sojourn there, for the famine was severe in the land.
12:11 他将近埃及，就对妻子撒莱说，我知道你是容貌美丽的妇人。
And when he was about to enter into Egypt, he said to Sarai his wife, I know indeed that you are a beautiful woman to look at;
12:12 埃及人看见你，必说，这是他的妻子，他们就会杀我，却叫你活着。
And when the Egyptians see you, they will say, This is his wife, and they will kill me; but they will keep you alive.
12:13 求你说，你是我的妹妹，使我因你得善待，我的命也因你存活。
Now say you are my sister, that it may be well with me on account of you and I may live because of you.
12:14 及至亚伯兰到了埃及，埃及人看见那妇人极其美丽。
And it came about when Abram came to Egypt, the Egyptians saw that the woman was very beautiful.
12:15 法老的大臣看见了她，就在法老面前称赞她；那妇人就被带进法老的宫里去。
And Pharaoh's officials saw her and praised her before Pharaoh, and the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house.
12:16 法老因这妇人就善待亚伯兰，亚伯兰得了许多牛、羊、骆驼、公驴、母驴、仆人、婢女。
And he treated Abram well on account of her, and he had sheep and oxen and donkeys and male servants and female servants and female donkeys and
camels.
12:17 耶和华因亚伯兰妻子撒莱的缘故，以大灾病击打法老和他全家。
And Jehovah struck Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram's wife.
12
12:18 法老就召了亚伯兰来，说，你这向我作的是什么事？为什么没有告诉我，她是你的妻子？
And Pharaoh called Abram and said, What is this you have done to me? Why did you not tell me that she was your wife?
12:19 为什么说她是你的妹妹，以致我把她取来要作我的妻子？现在你的妻子在这里，把她带走罢。
Why did you say, She is my sister, so that I took her to be my wife? Now then here is your wife; take her and go.
12:20 于是法老吩咐人将亚伯兰和他妻子，并他所有的都送走了。
And Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him; and they sent him away with his wife and all that he had.
创世记 Genesis 第 13 章
13:1 亚伯兰带着他的妻子和一切所有的，以及罗得，都从埃及上南地去。
And Abram went up out of Egypt, he and his wife and all that he had, and Lot with him, into the Negev.
13:2 亚伯兰的金、银、牲畜极多。
And Abram was very rich in livestock, in silver and in gold.
13:3 他从南地渐渐往伯特利去，到了伯特利和艾的中间，就是他起初支搭帐棚的地方，
And he continued on his journey from the Negev as far as Bethel, to the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and Ai,
13:4 也是他先前筑坛的地方；他又在那里呼求耶和华的名。
To the place of the altar, which he had made there formerly; and there Abram called on the name of Jehovah.
13:5 与亚伯兰同行的罗得，也有牛群、羊群、帐棚。
And Lot also, who went with Abram, had flocks and herds and tents.
13:6 那地容纳不下他们；因为他们的家产甚多，使他们不能同住一起。
And the land could not support them that they might dwell together, for their possessions were so great that they could not dwell together.
13:7 当时，迦南人与比利洗人在那地居住。牧养亚伯兰牲畜的人和牧养罗得牲畜的人起了争执。
And there was strife between the herdsmen of Abram's livestock and the herdsmen of Lot's livestock. And at that time the Canaanites and the Perizzites dwelt in
the land.
13:8 亚伯兰就对罗得说，你我不可相争，你的牧人和我的牧人也不可相争，因为我们是弟兄。
And Abram said to Lot, Let there please be no strife between me and you and between my herdsmen and your herdsmen, for we are brothers.
13:9 遍地不都在你面前么？请你离开我；你向左，我就向右；你向右，我就向左。
Is not the whole land before you? Please separate yourself from me. If you go to the left, then I will go to the right. Or if you go to the right, then I will go to the left.
13:10 罗得举目看见约但河的全平原，直到琐珥，都是滋润的；那地在耶和华毁灭所多玛、蛾摩拉以前，如同耶和华的园子，也像埃及地。
And Lot lifted up his eyes and saw the entire plain of the Jordan, that it was well watered everywhere-this was before Jehovah had destroyed Sodom and
Gomorrah-like the garden of Jehovah, like the land of Egypt, as you go to Zoar.
13:11 于是罗得为自己选择约但河的全平原，往东迁移；他们就彼此分离了。
So Lot chose for himself the entire plain of the Jordan, and Lot journeyed east; and they separated themselves from each other.
13:12 亚伯兰住在迦南地；罗得住在平原的城邑，并且渐渐挪移帐棚，直到所多玛。
Abram dwelt in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelt in the cities of the plain and moved his tent as far as Sodom.
13:13 所多玛人在耶和华面前罪大恶极。
Now the men of Sodom were very wicked and sinful toward Jehovah.
13:14 罗得离别亚伯兰以后，耶和华对亚伯兰说，从你所在的地方，举目向东西南北观看；
And Jehovah said to Abram, after Lot had separated from him, Now lift up your eyes, and look from the place where you are, northward and southward and
eastward and westward;
13:15 凡你所看见的一切地，我都要赐给你和你的后裔，直到永远。
For all the land that you see I will give to you and to your seed forever.
13:16 我也要使你的后裔如同地上的尘沙那样多，人若能数算地上的尘沙，才能数算你的后裔。
And I will make your seed as the dust of the earth, so that if a man can number the dust of the earth, then your seed can also be numbered.
13:17 你起来，纵横走遍这地，因为我必把这地赐给你。
Rise up; walk through the land according to its length and its breadth, for I will give it to you.
13:18 亚伯兰就搬了帐棚，来到希伯仑幔利的橡树那里居住，在那里为耶和华筑了一座坛。
And Abram moved his tent and came and dwelt by the oaks of Mamre, which are in Hebron, and there he built an altar to Jehovah.
创世记 Genesis 第 14 章
14:1 当暗拉非作示拿王，亚略作以拉撒王，基大老玛作以拦王，提达作戈印王的时候，
And in the days of Amraphel the king of Shinar, Arioch the king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer the king of Elam, and Tidal the king of Goiim,
14:2 他们都攻打所多玛王比锐、蛾摩拉王比沙、押玛王示纳、洗扁王善以别、和比拉王；比拉就是琐珥。
These kings made war with Bera the king of Sodom and with Birsha the king of Gomorrah, Shinab the king of Admah, and Shemeber the king of Zeboiim, and the
king of Bela (that is, Zoar).
14:3 这五王都在西订谷会合；西订谷就是盐海。
All these joined together in the valley of Siddim (that is, the Salt Sea).
14:4 他们已经服事基大老玛十二年，到第十三年就背叛了。
Twelve years they had served Chedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth year they rebelled.
14:5 第十四年，基大老玛和同盟的王都来在亚特律加宁，击败了利乏音人；在哈麦击败了苏西人，在沙微基列亭击败了以米人，
And in the fourteenth year Chedorlaomer and the kings who were with him came and struck the Rephaim in Ashteroth-karnaim and the Zuzim in Ham and the
Emim in Shaveh-kiriathaim
14:6 在西珥山击败了何利人，一直追击到靠近旷野的伊勒巴兰。
And the Horites in Mount Seir as far as El-paran, which is by the wilderness.
13
14:7 他们回到安密巴，就是加低斯，击败了亚玛力全地的人，以及住在哈洗逊他玛的亚摩利人。
And they turned back and came to En-mishpat (that is, Kadesh), and struck all the country of the Amalekites and also the Amorites who dwelt in Hazazon-tamar.
14:8 于是所多玛王、蛾摩拉王、押玛王、洗扁王、和比拉王(比拉就是琐珥)都出来，在西订谷摆阵，与他们交战，
And the king of Sodom and the king of Gomorrah and the king of Admah and the king of Zeboiim and the king of Bela (that is, Zoar) went forth and set the battle
in array against them in the valley of Siddim,
14:9 就是与以拦王基大老玛、戈印王提达、示拿王暗拉非、以拉撒王亚略交战；乃是四王与五王交战。
Against Chedorlaomer the king of Elam and Tidal the king of Goiim and Amraphel the king of Shinar and Arioch the king of Ellasar, four kings against the five.
14:10 西订谷有许多石漆坑；所多玛王和蛾摩拉王逃跑，掉在坑里，其余的人都往山地逃跑。
Now the valley of Siddim was full of tar pits, and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled; and they fell there, but those who survived fled to the hill country.
14:11 四王就把所多玛和蛾摩拉所有的财物，并一切的粮食，都掳掠去了；
And they took all the possessions of Sodom and Gomorrah and all their food and went away.
14:12 又把亚伯兰的侄儿罗得和罗得的财物掳掠去了，当时罗得正住在所多玛。
And they took Lot, Abram's brother's son, and his possessions and departed, for he was dwelling in Sodom.
14:13 有一个逃出来的人，来告诉希伯来人亚伯兰；亚伯兰正住在亚摩利人幔利的橡树那里。幔利和以实各并亚乃都是弟兄，曾与亚伯兰联盟。
And one who had escaped came and told Abram the Hebrew. Now he was dwelling by the oaks of Mamre the Amorite, the brother of Eshcol and brother of
Aner; and these were allies of Abram.
14:14 亚伯兰听见他侄儿被掳去，就率领他家里生养的精练壮丁三百一十八人，直追到但，
And when Abram heard that his brother had been taken captive, he led out his trained men, born in his house, three hundred eighteen of them, and pursued as
far as Dan.
14:15 便在夜间，自己同仆人分队击败敌人，又追到大马色北边的何把，
And he divided his forces against them by night, he and his servants, and struck them and pursued them to Hobah, which is north of Damascus.
14:16 将一切财物夺回来，连他侄儿罗得和他的财物，以及妇女、人民也都夺回来。
And he brought back all the possessions and also brought back Lot his brother and his possessions as well as the women and the people.
14:17 亚伯兰击败基大老玛和与他同盟的王回来的时候，所多玛王出来，在沙微谷迎接他；沙微谷就是王谷。
And after his return from the slaughter of Chedorlaomer and the kings who were with him, the king of Sodom went out to meet him at the valley of Shaveh (that is,
the King's Valley).
14:18 又有撒冷王麦基洗德带着饼和酒出来迎接；他是至高神的祭司。
And Melchizedek the king of Salem brought out bread and wine. Now he was priest of God the Most High.
14:19 他为亚伯兰祝福，说，愿天地的主、至高的神赐福与亚伯兰；
And he blessed him and said, Blessed be Abram of God the Most High, Possessor of heaven and earth;
14:20 至高的神把敌人交在你手里，是当受颂赞的。亚伯兰就将所得的一切，拿了十分之一给他。
And blessed be God the Most High, Who has delivered your enemies into your hand. And Abram gave him a tenth of all.
14:21 所多玛王对亚伯兰说，你把人口给我，财物你自己拿去罢。
And the king of Sodom said to Abram, Give me the people, and take the possessions for yourself.
14:22 但亚伯兰对所多玛王说，我已经向天地的主，至高的神耶和华举手起誓；
But Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have lifted up my hand to Jehovah, God the Most High, Possessor of heaven and earth,
14:23 凡是你的东西，就是一根线、一根鞋带，我都不拿，免得你说，我使亚伯兰富足。
That I will not take a thread or a sandal thong or anything that is yours, lest you say, I have made Abram rich;
14:24 只有仆人们所吃的，并与我同行的亚乃、以实各、幔利所应得的分，可以任凭他们拿去。
Except only that which the young men have eaten and the portion of the men who went with me-Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre; let them take their portion.
创世记 Genesis 第 15 章
15:1 这些事以后，耶和华的话在异象中临到亚伯兰，说，亚伯兰，你不要惧怕；我是你的盾牌，是你极大的赏赐。
After these things the word of Jehovah came to Abram in a vision, saying, Do not be afraid, Abram; I am your shield and your exceedingly great reward.
15:2 亚伯兰说，主耶和华阿，我快要去世了还没有儿子，你还赐我什么呢？那要承受我家业的，是大马色人以利以谢。
And Abram said, O Lord Jehovah, what will You give me, for I go childless, and the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus?
15:3 亚伯兰又说，你没有给我后裔；那在我家中的仆人，就是我的后嗣。
And Abram said, Since You have given me no seed, therefore, a servant in my house is my heir.
15:4 但耶和华的话临到他说，这人必不成为你的后嗣；你本身将要生的，才是你的后嗣。
But then the word of Jehovah came to him, saying, This man shall not be your heir, but he who will come out from your own body shall be your heir.
15:5 于是领他走到外边，说，你向天观看，数算众星，能数得过来么？又对他说，你的后裔将要如此。
And He brought him outside and said, Look now toward the heavens, and count the stars, if you are able to count them. And He said to him, So shall your seed
be.
15:6 亚伯兰信耶和华，耶和华就以此算为他的义。
And he believed Jehovah, and He accounted it to him as righteousness.
15:7 耶和华又对他说，我是耶和华，曾领你出了迦勒底的吾珥，为要将这地赐你为业。
Then He said to him, I am Jehovah who brought you out of Ur of the Chaldeans to give you this land to inherit it.
15:8 亚伯兰说，主耶和华阿，我怎能知道必得这地为业呢？
And he said, O Lord Jehovah, how will I know that I will inherit it?
15:9 祂说，你为我取一只三岁的母牛、一只三岁的母山羊、一只三岁的公绵羊、一只斑鸠、一只雏鸽。
And He said to him, Bring Me a three-year-old heifer and a three-year-old female goat and a three-year-old ram and a turtledove and a young pigeon.
15:10 亚伯兰就取了这些来，每样从中剖开，分成两半，一半对着一半的摆列，只有鸟没有剖开。
And he brought Him all these and cut them in two in the middle and laid the half of each opposite the other, but the birds he did not cut in two.
15:11 有鸷鸟下来，落在死畜的肉上，亚伯兰就把它们吓飞了。
And the birds of prey came down upon the carcasses, and Abram drove them away.
14
15:12 日头正落的时候，亚伯兰沉沉的睡了；忽然有惊人的大黑暗落在他身上。
And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram; and, behold, a terror and great darkness fell upon him.
15:13 耶和华对亚伯兰说，你要确实知道，你的后裔必寄居别人的地，又服事那地的人；那地的人要苦待他们四百年。
And He said to Abram, Know assuredly that your seed will be sojourners in a land that is not theirs, and they will serve them; and they will afflict them four
hundred years.
15:14 但他们所要服事的那国，我要惩罚，后来他们必带着许多财物从那里出来。
But I will also judge that nation, whom they will serve, and afterward they will come out with great possessions.
15:15 至于你，你要享大寿数，被人埋葬，平平安安的归到你列祖那里。
But as for you, you will go to your fathers in peace; you will be buried in a good old age.
15:16 到了第四代，他们必回到此地，因为亚摩利人的罪孽还没有满盈。
And in the fourth generation they will come here again, for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete.
15:17 日落天黑，不料有冒烟的炉并烧着的火把，从那些肉块中经过。
And when the sun went down and it was dark, there came a smoking furnace and a torch of fire which passed between these pieces.
15:18 当那日，耶和华与亚伯兰立约，说，我已赐给你的后裔，从埃及河直到伯拉大河之地，
On that day Jehovah made a covenant with Abram, saying, To your seed do I give this land, From the river of Egypt to the great river, the river Euphrates:
15:19 就是基尼人、基尼洗人、甲摩尼人、
The land of the Kenites and the Kenizzites and the Kadmonites
15:20 赫人、比利洗人、利乏音人、
And the Hittites and the Perizzites and the Rephaim
15:21 亚摩利人、迦南人、革迦撒人、耶布斯人之地。
And the Amorites and the Canaanites and the Girgashites and the Jebusites.
创世记 Genesis 第 16 章
16:1 亚伯兰的妻子撒莱没有给他生儿女。撒莱有一个使女，名叫夏甲，是埃及人。
Now Sarai, Abram's wife, bore him no children; and she had an Egyptian female servant, whose name was Hagar.
16:2 撒莱对亚伯兰说，耶和华使我不能生育，求你和我的使女同房，或者我可以因她得孩子。亚伯兰听了撒莱的话。
And Sarai said to Abram, Because Jehovah has prevented me from bearing, please go in to my female servant; perhaps I will obtain children by her. And Abram
listened to the voice of Sarai.
16:3 于是亚伯兰的妻子撒莱，将使女埃及人夏甲给了她丈夫为妻；那时亚伯兰在迦南地已经住了十年。
So after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar the Egyptian, her female servant, and gave her to Abram her
husband to be a wife.
16:4 亚伯兰与夏甲同房，夏甲就怀了孕；她见自己有孕，就轻看她的主母。
And he went in to Hagar, and she conceived; and when she saw that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes.
16:5 撒莱对亚伯兰说，愿我受的屈辱归到你身上。我将我的使女放在你怀中，她见自己有了孕，竟轻看我。愿耶和华在你我中间行判断。
And Sarai said to Abram, May the wrong done to me be upon you. I gave my female servant into your bosom, and when she saw that she had conceived, I was
despised in her eyes. May Jehovah judge between me and you.
16:6 亚伯兰对撒莱说，使女在你手下，你看怎样好，就怎样待她罢。于是撒莱苦待她，她就从撒莱面前逃走了。
And Abram said to Sarai, Your female servant is now in your hand; do to her what is good in your eyes. So Sarai dealt harshly with her, and she fled from before
her.
16:7 耶和华的使者在旷野往书珥路上的水泉旁遇见她，
And the Angel of Jehovah found her by a spring of water in the wilderness, by the spring on the way to Shur.
16:8 对她说，撒莱的使女夏甲，你从那里来？要往那里去？夏甲说，我从我的主母撒莱面前逃出来。
And He said, Hagar, Sarai's female servant, where did you come from and where are you going? And she said, I am fleeing from before my mistress Sarai.
16:9 耶和华的使者对她说，你回到你主母那里，服在她手下；
And the Angel of Jehovah said to her, Return to your mistress, and submit yourself under her hands.
16:10 又说，我必使你的后裔极其繁多，甚至不可胜数；
And the Angel of Jehovah said to her, I will greatly multiply your seed so that it will not be counted for multitude.
16:11 并说，你如今怀孕要生一个儿子，可以给他起名叫以实玛利，因为耶和华听见了你的苦情。
And the Angel of Jehovah said to her, You have now conceived And will bear a son, And you shall call his name Ishmael, Because Jehovah has heard of your
affliction.
16:12 他为人必像野驴；他的手要攻打人，人的手也要攻打他；他必住在众弟兄的东边。
And he will be a wild ass of a man; His hand will be against everyone, And everyone's hand, against him; And he will settle down opposite all his brothers.
16:13 夏甲就称那对她说话之耶和华的名为：你是启示自己的神；因为她说，祂向我启示了祂自己，我在这里居然还存活么？
And she called the name of Jehovah who spoke to her, You are a God who reveals Himself, for she said, Do I even remain here after He has revealed Himself to
me?
16:14 所以这井名叫庇耳拉海莱；这井在加低斯和巴列之间。
Therefore the well was called Beer-lahai-roi; there it is, between Kadesh and Bered.
16:15 后来夏甲给亚伯兰生了一个儿子；亚伯兰给他起名叫以实玛利。
And Hagar bore Abram a son, and Abram called the name of his son, whom Hagar bore, Ishmael.
16:16 夏甲给亚伯兰生以实玛利的时候，亚伯兰年八十六岁。
And Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to Abram.
创世记 Genesis 第 17 章
15
17:1 亚伯兰年九十九岁的时候，耶和华向他显现，对他说，我是全足的神；你要行在我面前，并且要完全；
And when Abram was ninety-nine years old, Jehovah appeared to Abram and said to him, I am the All-sufficient God; Walk before Me, and be perfect.
17:2 我要与你立约，使你的后裔极其增多。
And I will make My covenant between Me and you, And I will multiply you exceedingly.
17:3 亚伯兰面伏于地；神又与他谈话，说，
And Abram fell on his face, and God talked with him, saying,
17:4 我与你立的约是这样：你要成为多国的父。
As for Me, this is My covenant with you, And you shall become the father of a multitude of nations.
17:5 你的名不要再叫亚伯兰，要叫亚伯拉罕，因为我已立你作多国的父。
Your name shall no longer be called Abram, But your name shall be Abraham; For I have made you the father of a multitude of nations.
17:6 我必使你的后裔极其繁多；我必使多国从你而立，多王从你而出。
And I will make you exceedingly fruitful; and I will make nations of you, and kings will come forth from you.
17:7 我必与你并你世世代代的后裔坚立我的约，作永远的约，为要作你和你后裔的神。
And I will establish My covenant between Me and you and your seed after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and to
your seed after you.
17:8 我要将你寄居的地，就是迦南全地，赐给你和你的后裔永远为业，我也必作他们的神。
And I will give to you and to your seed after you the land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession; and I will be their God.
17:9 神又对亚伯拉罕说，至于你，你和你的后裔当世世代代遵守我的约。
And God said to Abraham, And as for you, you shall keep My covenant, you and your seed after you throughout their generations.
17:10 你们所有的男子都要受割礼；这就是我与你并你的后裔所立的约，是你们所当遵守的。
This is My covenant, which you shall keep, between Me and you and your seed after you: Every male among you shall be circumcised.
17:11 你们都要受割礼，这是我与你们立约的记号。
And you shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin, and it shall be a sign of a covenant between Me and you.
17:12 你们世世代代的男子，无论是家里生的，或是在你后裔之外用银子从外人买的，生下来第八日，都要受割礼。
And he who is eight days old shall be circumcised among you, every male throughout your generations, he who is born in the house or bought with money from
any foreigner who is not of your seed.
17:13 你家里生的和你用银子买的，都必须受割礼。这样，我的约就立在你们肉体上作永远的约。
He who is born in your house and he who is bought with your money must be circumcised; thus My covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant.
17:14 但不受割礼的男子必从民中剪除，因他背了我的约。
But as for the uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin, that person shall be cut off from his people; he has broken My covenant.
17:15 神又对亚伯拉罕说，至于你的妻子撒莱，不可再叫撒莱，她的名要叫撒拉。
And God said to Abraham, As for Sarai your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai, but her name shall be Sarah.
17:16 我必赐福给她，也要使你从她得一个儿子。我必赐福给她，她也要作多国之母，必有多民的君王从她而出。
And I will bless her, and I will also give you a son by her. Indeed, I will bless her, and she will be a mother of nations; kings of peoples will come forth from her.
17:17 亚伯拉罕就面伏于地笑了，心里说，一百岁的人还能得孩子么？撒拉已经九十岁了，还能生孩子么？
Then Abraham fell upon his face and laughed and said in his heart, Will a child be born to a man who is a hundred years old? And will Sarah, who is ninety years
old, bear a child?
17:18 亚伯拉罕对神说，但愿以实玛利活在你面前。
And Abraham said to God, Oh that Ishmael might live before You!
17:19 神说，不然，你妻子撒拉必给你生一个儿子，你要给他起名叫以撒。我要与他坚定所立的约，作他后裔永远的约。
But God said, No, but Sarah your wife will bear you a son, and you shall call his name Isaac; and I will establish My covenant with him for an everlasting covenant
for his seed after him.
17:20 至于以实玛利，我也应允你；我已赐福给他，使他繁衍，极其增多。他必生十二个首领；我也要使他成为大国。
And as for Ishmael, I have heard you; indeed, I have blessed him and will make him fruitful and will multiply him exceedingly: twelve princes will he beget, and I
will make him a great nation.
17:21 到明年这约定的日期，撒拉必给你生以撒，我要与他坚定所立的约。
But My covenant I will establish with Isaac, whom Sarah will bear to you at this appointed time next year.
17:22 神和亚伯拉罕谈完了话，就离开他升上去了。
And when He finished talking with him, God went up from Abraham.
17:23 正当那日，亚伯拉罕遵着神对他所说的，给他的儿子以实玛利和家里的一切男子，无论是在家里生的，是用银子买的，都行了割礼。
And Abraham took Ishmael his son and all who were born in his house and all who were bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham's
house, and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin on the very same day, as God had said to him.
17:24 亚伯拉罕受割礼的时候年九十九岁。
And Abraham was ninety-nine years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
17:25 他儿子以实玛利受割礼的时候年十三岁。
And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
17:26 正当那日，亚伯拉罕和他儿子以实玛利一同受了割礼。
On the very same day Abraham was circumcised as well as Ishmael his son.
17:27 家里所有的男人，无论是在家里生的，是用银子从外人买的，也都与他一同受了割礼。
And all the men of his house, those born in the house and those bought with money from a foreigner, were circumcised with him.
创世记 Genesis 第 18 章
18:1 耶和华在幔利橡树那里向亚伯拉罕显现。那时天正热，亚伯拉罕坐在帐棚口。
And Jehovah appeared to him by the oaks of Mamre as he was sitting at the entrance of his tent in the heat of the day.
18:2 他举目观看，见有三个人在对面站着。他一看见，就从帐棚口跑去迎接他们，俯伏在地，
16
And he lifted up his eyes and looked, and there were three men standing opposite him. And when he saw them, he ran from the entrance of the tent to meet
them. And he bowed down to the earth
18:3 说，我主，我若在你眼前蒙恩，求你不要离开仆人往前去。
And said, My Lord, if I have found favor in Your sight, please do not pass on from Your servant.
18:4 让我拿点水来，你们洗洗脚，在树下歇息歇息。
Please let a little water be fetched, and do wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree.
18:5 我再拿一点饼来，你们可以加添心力，然后往前去。你们既到仆人这里来，理当如此。他们说，就照你说的行罢。
And let me fetch a morsel of bread that you may sustain yourselves. After that you may pass on, since you have come to your servant. So they said, Do as you
have said.
18:6 亚伯拉罕急忙进帐棚见撒拉，说，你快快拿三细亚细面调和作饼。
And Abraham hurried into the tent to Sarah and said, Quickly prepare three measures of fine flour, knead it, and make cakes.
18:7 亚伯拉罕又跑到牛群里，牵了一只又嫩又好的牛犊来，交给仆人，仆人急忙预备好了。
And Abraham ran to the herd and took a calf, tender and good, and gave it to the servant, and he hurried to prepare it.
18:8 亚伯拉罕又取了奶酪和奶，并预备好的牛犊来，摆在他们面前，自己在树下站在旁边，他们就吃了。
And he took curds and milk and the calf which he had prepared, and set them before them; and he stood by them under the tree while they ate.
18:9 他们问亚伯拉罕说，你妻子撒拉在那里？他说，在帐棚里。
And they said to him, Where is Sarah your wife? And he said, There, in the tent.
18:10 其中一位说，到明年这时候，我必回到你这里；你的妻子撒拉必生一个儿子。撒拉在那位后边的帐棚口也听见了这话。
And He said, I will certainly return to you according to the time of life, and then Sarah your wife shall have a son. And Sarah was listening at the entrance of the
tent, which was behind Him.
18:11 亚伯拉罕和撒拉年纪老迈，撒拉的月经已经停了。
Now Abraham and Sarah were old and advanced in age; it had ceased to be with Sarah according to the manner of women.
18:12 撒拉心里暗笑，说，我既已衰败，我主也老迈，岂能有这乐趣呢？
And Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I have become old, shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also?
18:13 耶和华对亚伯拉罕说，撒拉为什么笑，说，我既年迈，果真能生孩子么？
And Jehovah said to Abraham, Why did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I indeed bear a child, when I am old?
18:14 耶和华岂有难成的事么？到了约定的日期，明年这时候，我必回到你这里，撒拉必生一个儿子。
Is anything too marvelous for Jehovah? At the appointed time I will return to you, according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son.
18:15 撒拉就害怕，不承认，说，我没有笑；那位说，不然，你实在笑了。
Then Sarah denied it, saying, I did not laugh; for she was afraid. And He said, No, but you did laugh.
18:16 三人就从那里起身，向所多玛观望；亚伯拉罕也与他们同行，要送他们一程。
And the men rose up from there and looked down upon Sodom; and Abraham walked with them to send them away.
18:17 耶和华说，我所要作的事，岂可瞒着亚伯拉罕么？
And Jehovah said, Shall I hide from Abraham what I am about to do,
18:18 亚伯拉罕必要成为又大又强的国，并且地上的万国都必因他得福。
Since Abraham will indeed become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth will be blessed in him?
18:19 我眷顾他，为要叫他吩咐他的子孙和他以后的家属，遵守我耶和华的道，秉行公义和公理，使我论到亚伯拉罕的话，都成就在他身上。
For I know him, that he will command his children and his household after him to keep the way of Jehovah by doing righteousness and justice, that Jehovah may
bring upon Abraham what He has spoken concerning him.
18:20 耶和华说，所多玛和蛾摩拉的罪甚重，声闻于我。
And Jehovah said, The cry of Sodom and Gomorrah, how great it is; and their sin, how very heavy it is!
18:21 我现在要下去，察看他们所行的，果然尽像那达到我耳中的声音么？若是不然，我也会知道。
I shall go down and see whether they have done altogether according to its outcry, which has come to Me; and if not, I will know.
18:22 二人转身离开那里，向所多玛走去；但亚伯拉罕仍旧站在耶和华面前。
And the men turned from there and went toward Sodom, while Abraham remained standing before Jehovah.
18:23 亚伯拉罕近前来，说，你真的要将义人与恶人一并剿灭么？
And Abraham came near and said, Will You indeed destroy the righteous with the wicked?
18:24 假若那城里有五十个义人，你还剿灭么？不为城里这五十个义人宽容那地方么？
Suppose there are fifty righteous within the city; will You indeed destroy and not spare the place for the sake of the fifty righteous who are in it?
18:25 你断不至将义人与恶人同杀，将义人与恶人一样看待；这断不是你所行的。审判全地的主岂不公平行事么？
Far be it from You to do such a thing, to put to death the righteous with the wicked, so that the righteous should be as the wicked. Far be it from You! Shall the
Judge of all the earth not do justly?
18:26 耶和华说，我若在所多玛城里见有五十个义人，我就要为他们的缘故宽容那地方。
And Jehovah said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare the whole place for their sake.
18:27 亚伯拉罕回答说，我虽然是尘土炉灰，还敢对主说话。
And Abraham answered and said, Now behold, I have taken it upon myself to speak to the Lord, though I am but dust and ashes.
18:28 假若这五十个义人缺了五个，你就因为缺了五个毁灭全城么？祂说，我在那里若见有四十五个，也不毁灭那城。
Suppose the fifty righteous are lacking five, will You destroy the whole city because of five? And He said, I will not destroy it if I find forty-five there.
18:29 亚伯拉罕又对祂说，假若在那里见有四十个怎么样？祂说，为这四十个的缘故，我也不作这事。
And he spoke to Him yet again and said, Suppose forty are found there? And He said, I will not do it because of forty.
18:30 亚伯拉罕说，求主不要动怒，容我说，假若在那里见有三十个怎么样？祂说，我在那里若见有三十个，我也不作这事。
And he said, Oh may the Lord not be angry if I speak. Suppose thirty are found there? And He said, I will not do it if I find thirty there.
18:31 亚伯拉罕说，我还敢对主说话，假若在那里见有二十个怎么样？祂说，为这二十个的缘故，我也不毁灭那城。
And he said, Now behold, I have taken it upon myself to speak to the Lord. Suppose twenty are found there? And He said, I will not destroy it because of twenty.
18:32 亚伯拉罕说，求主不要动怒，容我再说这一次，假若在那里见有十个呢？祂说，为这十个的缘故，我也不毁灭那城。
And he said, Oh let the Lord not be angry if I speak yet once more. Suppose ten are found there? And He said, I will not destroy it because of ten.
17
18:33 耶和华与亚伯拉罕说完了话就走了；亚伯拉罕也回到自己的地方去了。
And Jehovah went away as soon as He had finished speaking with Abraham, and Abraham returned to his place.
创世记 Genesis 第 19 章
19:1 那两个天使傍晚到了所多玛；罗得正坐在所多玛城门口，看见他们，就起来迎接，面伏于地下拜，
And the two angels came to Sodom in the evening, and Lot was sitting in the gate of Sodom. And when Lot saw them, he rose up to meet them and bowed with
his face to the ground.
19:2 说，我主阿，请你们转来仆人家里洗洗脚，过一夜，清早起来再上路。他们说，不，我们要在大街上过夜。
And he said, Now, my lords, please turn aside here to your servant's house, and spend the night, and wash your feet; then you can rise up early and go on your
way. But they said, No; we will spend the night in the square.
19:3 罗得切切的请他们，他们才转身进到他屋里。罗得为他们预备筵席，烤无酵饼，他们就吃了。
But he urged them strongly, and they turned aside to him and entered his house. And he made them a feast and baked unleavened bread, and they ate.
19:4 他们还没有躺下，所多玛城里各处的人，连老带少，都来围住那房子，
But before they lay down, the men of the city, the men of Sodom, surrounded the house, both young and old, all the people from every quarter;
19:5 呼叫罗得说，今晚到你这里来的人在那里？把他们带出来给我们，任我们所为。
And they called to Lot and said to him, Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us that we may know them.
19:6 罗得出到门口，把门关上，到众人那里，
And Lot went out to them at the entrance and shut the door behind him.
19:7 说，我的弟兄们，请你们不要作这恶事。
And he said, Please, my brothers, do not act so wickedly.
19:8 我有两个女儿，还是处女，让我领出来，照你们看为好的而行；只是这两个人既然到我舍下，不要向他们作什么。
I have here two daughters who have not known a man. Please, let me bring them out to you, and do to them as is fitting in your eyes; only do not do anything to
these men, inasmuch as they have come under the shelter of my roof.
19:9 但众人说，走开罢！又说，这个人来寄居，还作起审判官了！现在我们要害你比害他们更甚。众人就极力拥挤罗得，向前要攻破房门。
But they said, Stand aside. Then they said, This one came here to sojourn, and already he is acting like a judge. Now we will treat you worse than we would have
them. And they pressed hard against the man, against Lot, and came near in order to break down the door.
19:10 但那两个人伸出手来，将罗得拉进屋里，把门关上，
But the men stretched out their hand and brought Lot into the house to them and shut the door.
19:11 并且使门外的人，无论老少，眼都昏迷；他们耗尽了力气，也寻不着房门。
And they struck the men who were at the entrance of the house with blindness, both small and great, so that they wearied themselves trying to find the entrance.
19:12 那两个人对罗得说，你这里还有什么人？无论是女婿，是儿女，还是这城中一切属你的人，你都将他们从这地方带出去。
And the men said to Lot, Whom else do you have here? A son-in-law or your sons and your daughters or anyone you have in the city-bring them out of the
place.
19:13 我们就要毁灭这地方；因为他们罪恶的声音在耶和华面前甚大，耶和华差我们来，要毁灭这地方。
For we are about to destroy this place, because their outcry has become so great before Jehovah that Jehovah has sent us to destroy it.
19:14 罗得就出去，告诉要娶他女儿的女婿们说，你们起来离开这地方，因为耶和华要毁灭这城。他女婿们却以为他在说戏言。
And Lot went out and spoke to his sons-in-law, who were to marry his daughters, and said, Rise up; go forth from this place, for Jehovah will destroy the city. But
it seemed to his sons-in-law as though he were joking.
19:15 天明了，天使催逼罗得说，起来，带着你的妻子和你在这里的两个女儿出去，免得你因这城里的罪孽同被剿灭。
And when the morning dawned, the angels urged Lot, saying, Rise up; take your wife and your two daughters who are here, lest you be destroyed in the iniquity
of the city.
19:16 但罗得迟延不走。那两个人因为耶和华怜悯罗得，就抓着他的手和他妻子的手，并他两个女儿的手，把他们领出来，安置在城外；
But he lingered; so the men seized his hand and the hand of his wife and the hand of his two daughters, Jehovah being merciful to him, and they brought him
out and set him outside the city.
19:17 领他们出来以后，就说，逃命罢！不可回头看，也不可在平原上任何一处站住。要往山上逃跑，免得你被剿灭。
And when they had brought them outside, He said, Escape for your life. Do not look behind you, neither stay anywhere in the plain. Escape to the hills, lest you be
destroyed.
19:18 罗得对他们说，主阿，但愿不要如此。
And Lot said to them, May it not be so, Lord;
19:19 你仆人已经在你眼前蒙恩，你又向我显出莫大的慈爱，保全我的性命；我没有力量逃到山上，恐怕这灾祸追上我，我便死了。
Even though Your servant has found favor in Your sight, and You have magnified Your lovingkindness, which You have showed to me in preserving my life; I
cannot escape to the mountain, lest the disaster overtake me and I die.
19:20 看哪，这座小城很近，容易逃到。这不是一座小城么？求你让我逃到那里，我的性命就得存活。
Here, this city is nearby to flee to, and it is a little one. Please let me escape there-is it not a little one?-and I shall live.
19:21 天使对他说，这事我也应允你；我不倾覆你所说的这城。
And He said to him, I now grant you this request also, that I will not overthrow the city concerning which you have spoken.
19:22 你要快快逃到那里；因为你还没有到那里，我不能作什么。因此那城名叫琐珥。
Hurry, escape there; for I cannot do anything until you arrive there. Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar.
19:23 罗得到了琐珥，日头已经升起，照在地上。
The sun had risen over the earth when Lot came to Zoar.
19:24 当时，耶和华将硫磺与火从天上耶和华那里，降与所多玛和蛾摩拉，
Then Jehovah rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and fire from Jehovah out of heaven.
19:25 倾覆了那些城和全平原，并城里所有的居民，以及地上生长的一切。
And He overthrew those cities and all the plain and all the inhabitants of the cities and what grew on the ground.
19:26 罗得的妻子在后边回头一看，就变成了一根盐柱。
18
But his wife looked back from behind him, and she became a pillar of salt.
19:27 亚伯拉罕清早起来，到了他从前站在耶和华面前的地方，
And Abraham rose up early in the morning and went to the place where he had stood before Jehovah.
19:28 向所多玛和蛾摩拉与平原的全地观望，不料，那地方烟气上腾，如同烧窑的烟气一般。
And he looked down upon Sodom and Gomorrah and upon all the land of the plain. And as he looked, there it was: the smoke of the land was going up like the
smoke of a furnace.
19:29 当神毁灭平原诸城的时候，祂记念亚伯拉罕，正在倾覆罗得所住之诸城的时候，就打发罗得从倾覆之中出来。
And when God destroyed the cities of the plain, God remembered Abraham and sent Lot out from the middle of the overthrow, when He overthrew the cities
among which Lot dwelt.
19:30 罗得因为怕住在琐珥，就同他两个女儿从琐珥上去，住在山里；他和两个女儿住在一个洞里。
Then Lot went up out of Zoar and dwelt in the mountains, and his two daughters with him, for he was afraid to dwell in Zoar. And he and his two daughters dwelt
in a cave.
19:31 大女儿对小女儿说，我们的父亲老了，地上又无人按着世上的常规，来亲近我们。
And the firstborn said to the younger, Our father is old, and there is not a man on the earth to come in to us after the manner of all the earth.
19:32 来，我们可以叫父亲喝酒，与他同寝。这样，我们就可从他存留后裔。
Come, let us make our father drink wine; and let us lie with him, that we may preserve alive seed from our father.
19:33 于是，那夜她们叫父亲喝酒，大女儿就进去和她父亲同寝；她几时躺下，几时起来，父亲都不知道。
And they made their father drink wine that night. And the firstborn went in and lay with her father, and he did not know when she lay down or when she arose.
19:34 第二天，大女儿对小女儿说，我昨夜与父亲同寝。今夜我们再叫他喝酒，你可以进去与他同寝。这样，我们就可从父亲存留后裔。
And the next day the firstborn said to the younger, I have now lain with my father last night. Let us make him drink wine tonight also; and you go in, and lie with
him, that we may preserve alive seed from our father.
19:35 于是，那夜她们又叫父亲喝酒，小女儿起来与她父亲同寝；她几时躺下，几时起来，父亲都不知道。
And they made their father drink wine that night also. And the younger one arose and lay with him, and he did not know when she lay down or when she arose.
19:36 这样，罗得的两个女儿，都从她们父亲怀了孕。
Thus both the daughters of Lot became pregnant by their father.
19:37 大女儿生了儿子，给他起名叫摩押，他是现今摩押人的始祖。
And the firstborn bore a son and called his name Moab; he is the father of the Moabites to this day.
19:38 小女儿也生了儿子，给他起名叫便亚米，他是现今亚扪人的始祖。
And the younger, she also bore a son and called his name Ben-ammi; he is the father of the children of Ammon to this day.
创世记 Genesis 第 20 章
20:1 亚伯拉罕从那里向南地迁去，住在加低斯和书珥之间，寄居在基拉耳。
And Abraham journeyed from there toward the region of the Negev and dwelt between Kadesh and Shur; then he sojourned in Gerar.
20:2 亚伯拉罕提到他的妻子撒拉，说，她是我的妹妹。基拉耳王亚比米勒差人把撒拉取了去。
And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She is my sister. And Abimelech the king of Gerar sent and took Sarah.
20:3 但夜间神来在梦中对亚比米勒说，你要死啦！因为你取了那女人来；她原是别人的妻子。
But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night and said to him, You are now about to die because of the woman whom you have taken, for she is a man's wife.
20:4 亚比米勒却还没有亲近撒拉；他说，主阿，连公义的国，你也要杀灭么？
But Abimelech had not come near her, so he said, Lord, will You slay even a righteous nation?
20:5 那人岂不是自己对我说，她是我的妹妹么？就是女人自己也说，他是我的哥哥。我作这事是心正手洁的。
Did he himself not say to me, She is my sister? And even she herself said, He is my brother. In the integrity of my heart and the innocence of my hands I have
done this.
20:6 神在梦中对他说，我知道你作这事是心中纯正；我也拦阻了你，免得你得罪我；所以我不让你碰她。
And God said to him in the dream, Yes, I know that in the integrity of your heart you have done this, and I also prevented you from sinning against Me; therefore I
did not let you touch her.
20:7 现在你把这人的妻子归还他；因为他是申言者，他要为你祷告，使你存活。你若不归还，你当知道，你和你所有的人都必要死。
Now therefore return the man's wife, for he is a prophet, and he will pray for you, and you will live. But if you do not return her, know that you shall surely die, you
and all who are yours.
20:8 亚比米勒清早起来，召了众臣仆来，将这些事都说给他们听，他们就甚惧怕。
And Abimelech rose early in the morning and called all his servants and spoke all these things in their hearing. And the men were very afraid.
20:9 亚比米勒召了亚伯拉罕来，对他说，你向我们作了什么事？我在什么事上得罪了你，你竟使我和我的国陷在大罪里？你向我作了不当作的事了！
Then Abimelech called Abraham and said to him, What have you done to us? And how have I sinned against you, that you have brought on me and on my
kingdom a great sin? You have done to me things that ought not to be done.
20:10 亚比米勒又对亚伯拉罕说，你见了什么才作这事呢？
And Abimelech said to Abraham, What did you see, that you have done this thing?
20:11 亚伯拉罕说，我以为这地方的人总不惧怕神，必为我妻子的缘故杀我。
And Abraham said, Because I thought, Surely there is no fear of God in this place, and they will slay me because of my wife.
20:12 况且她也实在是我的妹妹；她与我是同父异母，后来作了我的妻子。
But she is also truly my sister, the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife.
20:13 当神叫我离开父家、飘流在外的时候，我对她说，我们无论走到什么地方，你提到我，要说，他是我的哥哥；这就是你以恩慈待我了。
And when God caused me to wander from my father's house, I said to her, This is your kindness which you must do to me: At every place where we go, say of
me, He is my brother.
20:14 亚比米勒把牛、羊、仆人、婢女赐给亚伯拉罕，又把他的妻子撒拉归还他。
Then Abimelech took sheep and oxen and male servants and female servants, and gave them to Abraham; and he returned to him Sarah his wife.
20:15 亚比米勒又说，看哪，我的地都在你面前，你可以随意居住；
19
And Abimelech said, My land is now before you; dwell wherever it pleases you.
20:16 又对撒拉说，我给你哥哥一千锭银子，作为你在全家人面前遮羞的，你就在各方面没有不是了。
And to Sarah he said, I have now given your brother a thousand pieces of silver. It is now your vindication before all who are with you. And in every respect you
have been cleared.
20:17 亚伯拉罕祷告神，神就医好了亚比米勒和他的妻子，并他的众女仆，她们便能生育。
And Abraham prayed to God; and God healed Abimelech and his wife and his female servants, so that they bore children.
20:18 因耶和华为亚伯拉罕的妻子撒拉的缘故，已经使亚比米勒家中所有的妇人，都不能生育。
For Jehovah had completely shut up all the wombs of the house of Abimelech because of Sarah, Abraham's wife.
创世记 Genesis 第 21 章
21:1 耶和华按先前的话眷顾撒拉，便照祂所应许的给撒拉成就。
And Jehovah visited Sarah as he had said, and Jehovah did to Sarah as He had promised.
21:2 当亚伯拉罕年老的时候，撒拉怀了孕；到神和亚伯拉罕约定的日期，就给亚伯拉罕生了一个儿子。
And Sarah conceived and bore Abraham a son in his old age, at the appointed time of which God had spoken to him.
21:3 亚伯拉罕为撒拉给他生的儿子起名叫以撒。
And Abraham called the name of his son who was born to him, whom Sarah bore to him, Isaac.
21:4 以撒生下来第八日，亚伯拉罕照着神所吩咐的，给他的儿子以撒行了割礼。
And Abraham circumcised Isaac his son when he was eight days old, as God had commanded him.
21:5 他儿子以撒出生的时候，亚伯拉罕年一百岁。
And Abraham was a hundred years old when Isaac his son was born to him.
21:6 撒拉说，神使我欢笑，凡听见的必与我一同欢笑；
And Sarah said, God has made me laugh; everyone who hears will laugh with me.
21:7 又说，谁能预先对亚伯拉罕说，撒拉要乳养儿女呢？然而在他年老的时候，我竟给他生了一个儿子。
And she said, Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children? Yet I have borne him a son in his old age.
21:8 孩子渐长，就断了奶。以撒断奶的日子，亚伯拉罕设摆盛大的筵席。
And the child grew and was weaned. And Abraham made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned.
21:9 当时，撒拉看见埃及人夏甲给亚伯拉罕所生的儿子戏笑，
And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, whom she had borne to Abraham, mocking.
21:10 就对亚伯拉罕说，你把这使女和她儿子赶出去，因为这使女的儿子不可与我的儿子以撒，一同承受产业。
So she said to Abraham, Cast out this maidservant and her son, for the son of this maidservant shall not inherit with my son Isaac.
21:11 亚伯拉罕因他儿子的缘故甚是愁烦。
And the matter displeased Abraham greatly on account of his son.
21:12 神对亚伯拉罕说，你不必为这童子和你的使女愁烦。凡撒拉对你说的话，你都要听；因为从以撒生的，才要称为你的后裔。
And God said to Abraham, Do not be displeased on account of the boy and on account of your maidservant. Whatever Sarah says to you, listen to her voice, for
in Isaac shall your seed be called.
21:13 至于使女的儿子，我也必使他成为一国，因为他是你的后裔。
And of the son of the maidservant I will also make a nation, because he is your seed.
21:14 亚伯拉罕清早起来，拿饼和一皮袋水，给了夏甲，搭在她的肩上，又把孩子交给她，打发她走。夏甲就走了，在别是巴的旷野走迷了路。
And Abraham rose up early in the morning and took bread and a waterskin full of water and gave them to Hagar, putting them on her shoulder, and gave her
the child and sent her away. And she departed and wandered in the wilderness of Beer-sheba.
21:15 皮袋的水用尽了，夏甲就把孩子撇在一棵小树下，
When the water in the waterskin was finished, she cast the child under one of the bushes.
21:16 自己走开约有一箭之远，相对而坐，说，我不忍见孩子死，就相对而坐，放声大哭。
And she went and sat herself down opposite him, a fair distance away, about a bowshot away, for she said, Do not let me look upon the death of the child. And
as she sat opposite him, she lifted up her voice and wept.
21:17 神听见童子的声音；神的使者从天上呼叫夏甲说，夏甲，你怎么了？不要害怕，神已经听见童子的声音了。
And God heard the voice of the boy. And the Angel of God called to Hagar out of heaven and said to her, What troubles you, Hagar? Do not be afraid, for God
has heard the voice of the boy where he is.
21:18 起来，把童子扶起来牵着；我必使他成为大国。
Rise up; lift up the boy, and hold him with your hand, for I will make him a great nation.
21:19 神开了夏甲的眼睛，她就看见一口水井，便去将皮袋盛满了水，给童子喝。
And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water. And she went and filled the waterskin with water and gave the boy a drink.
21:20 神与童子同在，他就渐长，住在旷野，成了弓箭手。
And God was with the boy, and he grew. And he dwelt in the wilderness and became an archer.
21:21 他住在巴兰的旷野；他母亲从埃及地给他娶了一个妻子。
And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran. And his mother took a wife for him from the land of Egypt.
21:22 当那时候，亚比米勒同他军长非各对亚伯拉罕说，在你所作的一切事上，神都与你同在。
And at that time Abimelech and Phicol the captain of his army spoke to Abraham, saying, God is with you in all that you do.
21:23 我愿你如今在这里指着神对我起誓，不要以诡诈待我与我的子孙后代。我怎样以恩慈待你，你也要照样待我，与你所寄居这地的民。
Now therefore swear to me here by God that you will not deal falsely with me or with my offspring or with my posterity. According to the kindness that I have
shown to you, you shall do to me and to the land in which you have sojourned.
21:24 亚伯拉罕说，我愿意起誓。
And Abraham said, I swear it.
21:25 从前，亚比米勒的仆人霸占了一口水井，亚伯拉罕为这事指责亚比米勒。
And Abraham confronted Abimelech concerning the well of water which Abimelech's servants had taken by force.
20
21:26 亚比米勒说，谁作这事，我不知道；你也没有告诉我，今日我才听见了。
And Abimelech said, I do not know who has done this thing; and you did not tell me about it, nor have I even heard of it until today.
21:27 亚伯拉罕把羊和牛给了亚比米勒，二人就彼此立约。
And Abraham took sheep and oxen and gave them to Abimelech. And the two of them made a covenant.
21:28 亚伯拉罕把羊群中的七只母羊羔，另放在一处。
And Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves.
21:29 亚比米勒问亚伯拉罕说，你把这七只母羊羔另放在一处，是什么意思？
And Abimelech said to Abraham, What is the meaning of these seven ewe lambs which you have set by themselves?
21:30 他说，你要从我手里接受这七只母羊羔，作我挖这口井的证据。
And he said, These seven ewe lambs you shall take from my hand, that it may be a witness for me that I dug this well.
21:31 所以他称那地方为别是巴，因为他们二人在那里起了誓。
Therefore he called that place Beer-sheba, because there the two of them swore an oath.
21:32 他们在别是巴立了约。亚比米勒就同他军长非各起身，回非利士人的地去了。
So they made a covenant at Beer-sheba; and Abimelech rose up with Phicol the captain of his host, and they returned into the land of the Philistines.
21:33 亚伯拉罕在别是巴栽了一棵垂丝柳树，又在那里呼求耶和华永远之神的名。
And Abraham planted a tamarisk tree in Beer-sheba, and there he called on the name of Jehovah, the Eternal God.
21:34 亚伯拉罕在非利士人的地寄居了多日。
And Abraham sojourned in the land of the Philistines many days.
创世记 Genesis 第 22 章
22:1 这些事以后，神试验亚伯拉罕，对他说，亚伯拉罕。他说，我在这里。
Now after these things God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham. And he said, Here I am.
22:2 神说，你带着你的儿子，就是你独生的儿子，你所爱的以撒，往摩利亚地去，在我所要指示你的山上，把他献为燔祭。
And He said, Take now your son, your only son, whom you love, Isaac, and go to the land of Moriah and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the
mountains of which I will tell you.
22:3 亚伯拉罕清早起来，备上驴，带着两个仆人和他儿子以撒，也劈好了燔祭的柴，就起身往神所指示他的地方去。
And Abraham rose early in the morning and saddled his donkey and took two of his young men with him and Isaac his son. And he split the wood for the burnt
offering and rose up and went to the place of which God had told him.
22:4 到了第三日，亚伯拉罕举目远远的看见那地方。
On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place from afar.
22:5 亚伯拉罕对他的仆人说，你们和驴在这里等着，我与童子往那里去敬拜，然后回到你们这里来。
And Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey; and I and the boy will go over there, and we will worship and then return to you.
22:6 亚伯拉罕把燔祭的柴放在他儿子以撒身上，自己手里拿着火与刀；于是二人同行。
And Abraham took the wood for the burnt offering and laid it upon Isaac his son. And he took in his hand the fire and the knife. And the two of them walked
together.
22:7 以撒对他父亲亚伯拉罕说，父亲哪。亚伯拉罕说，我儿，我在这里。以撒说，请看，火与柴都有了，但燔祭的羊羔在那里？
And Isaac spoke to Abraham his father and said, My father! And he said, Here I am, my son. And he said, The fire and the wood are here, but where is the lamb
for a burnt offering?
22:8 亚伯拉罕说，我儿，神必自己预备作燔祭的羊羔。于是二人同行。
And Abraham said, God Himself will provide the lamb for a burnt offering, my son. So the two of them walked on together.
22:9 他们到了神所指示的地方，亚伯拉罕在那里筑坛，把柴摆好，就捆绑他的儿子以撒，放在坛的柴上。
And they came to the place of which God had told him. And Abraham built the altar there and laid the wood in order and bound Isaac his son and laid him on
the altar on top of the wood.
22:10 亚伯拉罕伸手拿刀，要杀他的儿子。
And Abraham stretched out his hand and took the knife to slaughter his son.
22:11 耶和华的使者从天上呼叫他说，亚伯拉罕！亚伯拉罕！他说，我在这里。
And the Angel of Jehovah called to him from the heavens and said, Abraham, Abraham. And he said, Here I am.
22:12 使者说，你不可在这童子身上下手，一点不可害他。现在我知道你是敬畏神的了，因为你没有将你的儿子，就是你独生的儿子，留下不给我。
And he said, Do not stretch out your hand upon the boy, nor do anything to him; for now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your
only son, from Me.
22:13 亚伯拉罕举目观看，不料，在他后面有一只公羊，两角扣在树丛中，亚伯拉罕就去取了那只公羊来，献为燔祭，代替他的儿子。
And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and there behind him was a ram, caught in the thicket by its horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and
offered it up for a burnt offering in place of his son.
22:14 亚伯拉罕给那地方起名叫耶和华以勒，直到今日人还说，在耶和华的山上必有预备。
And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovah-jireh, as it is said to this day, On the mount of Jehovah it will be provided.
22:15 耶和华的使者第二次从天上呼叫亚伯拉罕，说，
And the Angel of Jehovah called to Abraham a second time from the heavens
22:16 耶和华宣示说，你既行了这事，不留下你的儿子，就是你独生的儿子，我指着自己起誓：
And said, By Myself I have sworn, declares Jehovah: Because you have done this thing and have not withheld your son, your only son,
22:17 论福，我必赐福给你；论繁增，我必使你的后裔繁增，如同天上的星，海边的沙；你的后裔必得着仇敌的城门；
I will surely bless you and will greatly multiply your seed like the stars of the heavens and like the sand which is on the seashore; and your seed shall possess the
gate of his enemies.
22:18 并且地上万国，都必因你的后裔得福；因为你听从了我的话。
And in your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed, because you have obeyed My voice.
22:19 于是亚伯拉罕回到他仆人那里，他们一同起身往别是巴去，亚伯拉罕就住在别是巴。
21
So Abraham returned to his young men, and they rose up and went together to Beer-sheba. And Abraham dwelt in Beer-sheba.
22:20 这些事以后，有人告诉亚伯拉罕说，密迦给你兄弟拿鹤生了几个儿子，
And after these things it was told Abraham, saying, Milcah has now also borne children to your brother Nahor:
22:21 长子是乌斯，他的弟弟是布斯、亚兰的父亲基母利、
Uz his firstborn and Buz his brother and Kemuel the father of Aram
22:22 并基薛、哈琐、必达、益拉、彼土利。
And Chesed and Hazo and Pildash and Jidlaph and Bethuel;
22:23 彼土利生利百加，这八个人都是密迦给亚伯拉罕的兄弟拿鹤生的。
And Bethuel begot Rebekah. These eight Milcah bore to Nahor, Abraham's brother.
22:24 拿鹤的妾名叫流玛，生了提八、迦含、他辖和玛迦。
And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, also bore Tebah and Gaham and Tahash and Maacah.
创世记 Genesis 第 23 章
23:1 撒拉享寿一百二十七岁，这是撒拉一生的岁数。
And the life of Sarah was one hundred twenty-seven years. These were the years of the life of Sarah.
23:2 撒拉死在迦南地的基列亚巴，就是希伯仑。亚伯拉罕为她哀恸哭号。
And Sarah died in Kiriath-arba (that is, Hebron) in the land of Canaan. And Abraham proceeded to mourn for Sarah and to weep for her.
23:3 后来亚伯拉罕从死人面前起来，对赫人说，
Then Abraham rose up from before his dead wife and spoke to the children of Heth, saying,
23:4 我在你们中间是外人，是寄居的，求你们让我在这里得着一块坟地，我好埋葬我的死人，使她不在我眼前。
I am a stranger and a sojourner among you. Give me the possession of a burial place among you that I may bury my dead wife out of my sight.
23:5 赫人回答亚伯拉罕说，
And the children of Heth answered Abraham, saying to him,
23:6 我主请听，你在我们中间是神的王子，只管在我们最好的坟地埋葬你的死人；我们没有一人不容你在他的坟地埋葬你的死人。
Hear us, my lord. You are a prince of God in our midst. In the choicest of our burial places bury your dead wife. None of us will withhold from you his burial place
for burying your dead wife.
23:7 亚伯拉罕就起来，向那地的赫人下拜，
And Abraham rose up and bowed down to the people of the land, to the children of Heth.
23:8 对他们说，你们若有意叫我埋葬我的死人，使她不在我眼前，就请听我的话，为我求琐辖的儿子以弗仑，
And he spoke with them, saying, If it is your desire that I should bury my dead wife out of my sight, hear me, and entreat for me Ephron the son of Zohar
23:9 把他田地尽头那麦比拉洞给我；他可以按着足价卖给我，使我在你们中间得着一块坟地。
That he would give me the cave of Machpelah, which is his, and which is at the end of his field. For the full price let him give it to me in your midst for the
possession of a burial place.
23:10 当时以弗仑正坐在赫人中间。于是，赫人以弗仑在出入城门的赫人面前回答亚伯拉罕说，
Now Ephron was sitting in the midst of the children of Heth. And Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the hearing of the children of Heth, in the hearing of all
who went in at the gate of his city, saying,
23:11 不然，我主请听，我送给你这块田，连田间的洞也送给你，在我同族的人面前都给你，可以埋葬你的死人。
No, my lord, hear me. I give you the field and the cave that is in it, to you I give it. In the presence of the children of my people I give it to you; bury your dead wife.
23:12 亚伯拉罕就在那地的人面前下拜，
And Abraham bowed down before the people of the land.
23:13 在他们面前对以弗仑说，你若应允，请听我的话，我要把田价给你，求你收下，使我可以在那里埋葬我的死人。
And he spoke to Ephron in the hearing of the people of the land, saying, But if you will, please hear me; I will give the price of the field. Take it from me, that I may
bury my dead wife there.
23:14 以弗仑回答亚伯拉罕说，
And Ephron answered Abraham, saying to him,
23:15 我主请听。值四百舍客勒银子的一块地，在你我中间还算什么呢？只管埋葬你的死人罢。
My lord, listen to me. A piece of land worth four hundred shekels of silver, what is that between me and you? Therefore bury your dead wife.
23:16 亚伯拉罕听从了以弗仑，照着他在赫人面前所题说的，把买卖通用的银子称了四百舍客勒给以弗仑。
And Abraham listened to Ephron, and Abraham weighed out to Ephron the silver which he had named in the hearing of the children of Heth, four hundred
shekels of silver, current with the merchant.
23:17 于是，在幔利前的麦比拉，以弗仑的那块田和其中的洞，并田间四围的树木，
So the field of Ephron, which was in Machpelah and which was before Mamre, the field and the cave which was in it and all the trees that were in the field, which
were in all its territory, were assured
23:18 都定准归与亚伯拉罕为业，乃是他在出入城门的赫人面前买妥的。
To Abraham for a possession in the presence of the children of Heth, in the presence of all who went in at the gate of his city.
23:19 此后，亚伯拉罕把他妻子撒拉埋葬在迦南地幔利前，麦比拉田间的洞里。(幔利就是希伯仑。)
And after this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field of Machpelah before Mamre (that is, Hebron) in the land of Canaan.
23:20 从此，那块田和田间的洞，就定准从赫人归与亚伯拉罕为业，作坟地。
And the field and the cave that is in it were assured to Abraham for the possession of a burial place from the children of Heth.
创世记 Genesis 第 24 章
24:1 亚伯拉罕年纪老迈，向来在一切事上耶和华都赐福给他。
And Abraham was old, and advanced in age. And Jehovah had blessed Abraham in all things.
22
24:2 亚伯拉罕对管理他全业最老的仆人说，请你把手放在我大腿下。
And Abraham said to his servant, the oldest of his house, who ruled over all that he had, Put your hand under my thigh;
24:3 我要叫你指着耶和华天地的神起誓，不要从我所住这迦南人中，为我儿子娶他们的女子为妻。
And I will make you swear by Jehovah, the God of heaven and the God of earth, that you will not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites,
among whom I am dwelling.
24:4 你要往我本地、亲族那里去，为我的儿子以撒娶一个妻子。
But you shall go to my country and to my relatives, and take a wife for my son Isaac.
24:5 仆人对他说，倘若女子不肯跟我到这地来，我必须将你的儿子带回你原出之地么？
And the servant said to him, Perhaps the woman will not be willing to follow me to this land. Must I then take your son back to the land from where you came?
24:6 亚伯拉罕对他说，你要谨慎，不要带我的儿子回那里去。
And Abraham said to him, Be certain not to take my son back there.
24:7 耶和华天上的神曾带领我离开父家和我的出生地，对我说话，向我起誓说，我要将这地赐给你的后裔。祂必差遣使者在你前面，你就可以从那里为我
儿子娶一个妻子。
Jehovah, the God of heaven, who took me from my father's house and from the land of my birth, and who spoke to me, and who swore to me, saying, To your
seed I will give this land, He will send His angel before you; and you shall take a wife for my son from there.
24:8 倘若女子不肯跟你来，我使你起的这誓就与你无关了，只是不可带我的儿子回那里去。
And if the woman is not willing to follow you, you shall be free from this oath of mine; only you shall not take my son back there.
24:9 仆人就把手放在他主人亚伯拉罕的大腿下，为这事向他起誓。
So the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master and swore to him concerning this matter.
24:10 那仆人从他主人的骆驼中取了十匹骆驼，手里带了他主人各样的美物，就起身往米所波大米去，到了拿鹤的城。
And the servant took ten camels from the camels of his master and departed, having all kinds of his master's good things in his hand. And he rose up and went
to Aram-naharaim, to the city of Nahor.
24:11 天将晚，众女子出来打水的时候，他便叫骆驼跪在城外的水井旁。
And he made the camels to kneel down outside the city by the well of water at the time of evening, at the time when women go out to draw water.
24:12 他说，耶和华我主人亚伯拉罕的神阿，求你以恩慈待我主人亚伯拉罕，使我今日办事顺利。
And he said, O Jehovah, the God of my master Abraham, Please grant me success today, and show kindness to my master Abraham.
24:13 我现今站在水井旁，城内居民的女子们正出来打水。
I am standing here by the spring of water as the daughters of the men of the city are coming out to draw water.
24:14 我向那一个少女说，请你拿下水瓶，给我水喝；她若说，请喝，我也给你的骆驼喝；愿她就作你所定，给你仆人以撒的妻。这样，我便知道你以恩
慈待我主人了。
And may it be that the girl to whom I say, Please let down your pitcher that I may drink, and who says, Drink, and I will also give your camels a drink, may she be
the one whom You have appointed for Your servant, for Isaac; and in this I will know that You have shown kindness to my master.
24:15 话还没有说完，不料，利百加肩头上扛着水瓶出来。利百加是彼土利所生的；彼土利是亚伯拉罕兄弟拿鹤妻子密迦的儿子。
But before he had finished speaking, there was Rebekah, who was born to Bethuel the son of Milcah, the wife of Nahor, Abraham's brother, coming out with her
pitcher upon her shoulder.
24:16 那少女容貌极其美丽，还是处女，未曾有人亲近她。她下到井旁，打满了瓶，又上来。
And the girl was very beautiful in appearance, a virgin, and no man had known her. And she went down to the spring and filled her pitcher and came up.
24:17 仆人跑上前去迎着她，说，求你将瓶里的水给我一点喝。
And the servant ran to meet her and said, Please let me sip a little water from your pitcher.
24:18 她说，我主请喝。就急忙拿下水瓶，托在手上给他喝。
And she said, Drink, my lord. And she hurried and lowered her pitcher on her hand and gave him a drink.
24:19 少女给他喝了，就说，我再为你的骆驼打水，叫骆驼也喝足。
And when she had finished giving him a drink, she said, I will draw water for your camels also, until they have finished drinking.
24:20 她就急忙把瓶里的水倒在槽里，又跑到井旁打水，为所有的骆驼打上水来。
And she hurried and emptied her pitcher into the trough and ran again to the well to draw water, and she drew it for all his camels.
24:21 那人定睛看她，一句话也不说，要晓得耶和华赐他亨通的道路没有。
And the man gazed fixedly upon her in silence to know whether Jehovah had made his journey prosperous or not.
24:22 等骆驼喝足了，那人就拿一个金鼻环，重半舍客勒，两个金手镯，重十舍客勒，给那少女，
And when the camels had finished drinking, the man took a golden nose-ring weighing half a shekel and two bracelets for her hands weighing ten gold shekels,
24:23 说，请告诉我，你是谁的女儿？你父亲家里有我们住宿的地方没有？
And said, Whose daughter are you? Please tell me, is there room in your father's house for us to lodge in?
24:24 少女对他说，我是密迦与拿鹤之子彼土利的女儿；
And she said to him, I am the daughter of Bethuel the son of Milcah, whom she bore to Nahor.
24:25 又说，我们家里足有草料和饲粮，也有住宿的地方。
She also said to him, We have plenty of straw and fodder and also a place to lodge in.
24:26 那人就低头向耶和华敬拜，
And the man bowed and worshipped Jehovah.
24:27 说，耶和华我主人亚伯拉罕的神是当受颂赞的，因祂不断以慈爱信实待我主人。至于我，耶和华一路上引领我，直到我主人的兄弟家里。
And he said, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of my master Abraham, who has not forsaken His lovingkindness and His faithfulness toward my master. As for me,
Jehovah has led me in the way to the house of my master's brothers.
24:28 少女跑回去，把这些事告诉她母亲家里的人。
And the girl ran and told her mother's house about these things.
24:29 利百加有一个哥哥，名叫拉班，看见金环，又看见金镯在他妹妹的手上，并听见他妹妹利百加的话说，那人对我如此如此说；拉班就跑出来往井旁
去，到那人跟前，见他仍站在井旁骆驼旁边，
And Rebekah had a brother whose name was Laban, and Laban ran out to the man, to the spring.
24:30
23
As soon as he had seen the ring and the bracelets upon his sister's hands, and had heard the words of Rebekah his sister, saying, This is what the man spoke to
me, he went to the man. And there he was, standing by the camels at the spring.
24:31 便对他说，你这蒙耶和华赐福的，请进来，为什么站在外边？我已经收拾了房屋，也为骆驼预备了地方。
And he said, Come in, O blessed of Jehovah! Why do you stand outside when I have prepared the house and a place for the camels?
24:32 那人就进了拉班的家。拉班卸了骆驼，用草料和饲粮喂上，拿水给那人和跟随的人洗脚，
And the man came into the house, and Laban unloaded the camels. And he gave straw and fodder to the camels and water to wash his feet and the feet of the
men who were with him.
24:33 把食物摆在他面前，给他吃。他却说，我不吃，等我说明白我的事情再吃。拉班说，请说。
And food was set before him to eat. But he said, I will not eat until I have told my business. And he said, Speak on.
24:34 他说，我是亚伯拉罕的仆人。
And he said, I am Abraham's servant.
24:35 耶和华大大的赐福给我主人，使他昌大，又赐给他羊群、牛群、金银、仆人、婢女、骆驼和驴。
And Jehovah has blessed my master greatly, and he has become great. And He has given him flocks and herds, and silver and gold, and male servants and
female servants, and camels and donkeys.
24:36 我主人的妻子撒拉年老的时候，给我主人生了一个儿子；我主人也将一切所有的都给了这个儿子。
And Sarah my master's wife bore a son to my master after she had become old. And he has given all that he has to him.
24:37 我主人叫我起誓说，你不要从我所住迦南人之地，为我儿子娶他们的女子为妻。
And my master made me swear, saying, You shall not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I dwell.
24:38 你要往我父家、我本族那里去，为我儿子娶一个妻子。
But you shall go to my father's house and to my family, and take a wife for my son.
24:39 我对我主人说，恐怕女子不肯跟我来。
And I said to my master, Perhaps the woman will not follow me.
24:40 他就对我说，我行事为人都在祂面前的耶和华，必差遣祂的使者与你同去，叫你的道路亨通，你就得以从我本族、我父家，给我儿子娶一个妻子。
And he said to me, Jehovah, before whom I walk, will send His angel with you and make your journey prosperous. And you shall take a wife for my son from my
family, even from my father's house.
24:41 只要你到了我本族那里，我使你起的誓就与你无关。他们若不把女子交给你，我使你起的誓也与你无关。
Then you will be free from my oath, when you come to my family. And if they do not give her to you, you will be free from my oath.
24:42 我今日到了井旁，便说，耶和华我主人亚伯拉罕的神阿，愿你叫我所行的道路亨通。
And I came today to the spring and said, O Jehovah, the God of my master Abraham, if now You make my journey on which I go prosperous,
24:43 我如今站在水井旁，对那一个出来打水的童女说，请你把你瓶里的水给我一点喝；
I am standing here by the spring of water, so let the maiden who comes out to draw water, to whom I will say, Please give me a little water from your pitcher to
drink,
24:44 她若对我说，你只管喝，我也为你的骆驼打水；愿她就作耶和华给我主人儿子所定的妻。
And she will say to me, Drink, and I will also draw water for your camels-let her be the woman whom Jehovah has appointed for my master's son.
24:45 我心里的话还没有说完，利百加就出来，肩头上扛着水瓶，下到井旁打水。我便对她说，请你给我水喝。
Before I had finished speaking in my heart, there came Rebekah, and her pitcher was on her shoulder. And she went down to the spring and drew water. And I
said to her, Please let me drink.
24:46 她就急忙从肩头上拿下瓶来说，请喝，我也给你的骆驼喝。我便喝了；她又给我的骆驼喝了。
And she hurried and let down her pitcher from her shoulder and said, Drink, and I will also give your camels a drink. So I drank, and she also gave the camels a
drink.
24:47 我问她说，你是谁的女儿？她说，我是密迦与拿鹤之子彼土利的女儿。我就把鼻环戴在她鼻子上，把镯子戴在她两手上。
And I asked her and said, Whose daughter are you? And she said, The daughter of Bethuel, Nahor's son, whom Milcah bore to him. And I put the nose-ring
upon her nose and the bracelets upon her hands.
24:48 随后我低头向耶和华敬拜，颂赞耶和华我主人亚伯拉罕的神；因为祂引导了我走对的路，使我得着我主人兄弟的孙女，给我主人的儿子为妻。
And I bowed and worshipped Jehovah and blessed Jehovah, the God of my master Abraham, who had led me in the right way to take the daughter of my
master's brother for his son.
24:49 现在你们若愿以慈爱信实待我主人，就告诉我；若不然，也告诉我，使我可以或向左，或向右。
And now if you will deal kindly and truly with my master, tell me so; but if not, tell me so, that I may turn to the right hand or to the left.
24:50 拉班和彼土利回答说，这事乃出于耶和华，我们不能向你说好说歹。
Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, The matter comes from Jehovah; we cannot speak to you bad or good.
24:51 看哪，利百加在你面前，可以将她带去，照着耶和华所说的，给你主人的儿子为妻。
Here is Rebekah before you: Take her, and go; and let her be the wife of your master's son, as Jehovah has spoken.
24:52 亚伯拉罕的仆人听见他们这话，就向耶和华俯伏在地。
And when Abraham's servant heard their words, he bowed down to the earth to Jehovah.
24:53 当下仆人拿出银器、金器和衣服送给利百加，又将宝物送给她哥哥和她母亲。
And the servant brought forth silver jewelry and gold jewelry and clothing and gave them to Rebekah. He also gave precious things to her brother and to her
mother.
24:54 仆人和跟从他的人吃了喝了，住了一夜。早晨起来，仆人就说，请打发我回我主人那里去罢。
And they ate and drank, he and the men who were with him, and spent the night. And they rose up in the morning, and he said, Send me away to my master.
24:55 利百加的哥哥和她母亲说，让少女同我们再住几天，至少十天，然后她可以去。
And her brother and her mother said, Let the girl stay with us a few days, ten or so; after that she may go.
24:56 仆人对他们说，耶和华既赐给我亨通的道路，你们不要耽误我，请打发我走，回我主人那里去罢。
And he said to them, Do not delay me, since Jehovah has made my journey prosperous. Send me away that I may go to my master.
24:57 他们说，我们把少女叫来问问她，
And they said, Let us call the girl and ask her.
24:58 就叫了利百加来，问她说，你和这人同去么？利百加说，我去。
24
And they called Rebekah and said to her, Will you go with this man? And she said, I will go.
24:59 于是他们打发妹妹利百加和她的乳母，同亚伯拉罕的仆人，并跟从仆人的，都走了。
So they sent away Rebekah their sister and her nurse and Abraham's servant and his men.
24:60 他们就给利百加祝福说，我们的妹妹阿，愿你作千万人的母；愿你的后裔得着仇敌的城门。
And they blessed Rebekah and said to her, May you, our sister, become Thousands of ten thousands, And may your seed possess The gate of those who hate
them.
24:61 利百加和她的使女们起来，骑上骆驼，跟着那仆人；仆人就带着利百加走了。
And Rebekah arose with her maids, and they rode on the camels and followed the man. And the servant took Rebekah and went away.
24:62 那时，以撒刚从庇耳拉海莱回来，他原来住在南地。
Now Isaac had come from going to Beer-lahai-roi, for he was dwelling in the region of the Negev.
24:63 天将晚，以撒出来在田间默想，举目一看，见来了些骆驼。
And Isaac went out to meditate in the field toward evening. And he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, camels were coming.
24:64 利百加举目看见以撒，就急忙下了骆驼，
And Rebekah lifted up her eyes; and when she saw Isaac, she sprang off the camel.
24:65 问那仆人说，这在田间走来迎接我们的是谁？仆人说，是我的主人。利百加就拿帕子把自己的脸蒙起来。
And she said to the servant, Who is this man who is walking in the field to meet us? And the servant said, It is my master. And she took her veil and covered
herself.
24:66 仆人将所办的一切事都告诉以撒。
And the servant told Isaac all the things that he had done.
24:67 以撒便领利百加进他母亲撒拉的帐棚，娶她为妻，并且爱她。以撒自从他母亲不在了，这才得了安慰。
And Isaac brought her into the tent of Sarah his mother. And he took Rebekah, and she became his wife, and he loved her. And Isaac was comforted after the
death of his mother.
创世记 Genesis 第 25 章
25:1 亚伯拉罕又娶了一个妻子，名叫基土拉。
And Abraham took another wife, whose name was Keturah.
25:2 基土拉给他生了心兰、约珊、米但、米甸、伊施巴和书亚。
And she bore him Zimran and Jokshan and Medan and Midian and Ishbak and Shuah.
25:3 约珊生了示巴和底但。底但的子孙是亚书利人、利都是人和利乌米人。
And Jokshan begot Sheba and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were the Asshurim and the Letushim and the Leummim.
25:4 米甸的儿子是以法、以弗、哈诺、亚比大和以勒大。这些都是基土拉的子孙。
And the sons of Midian: Ephah and Epher and Hanoch and Abida and Eldaah. All these were the sons of Keturah.
25:5 亚伯拉罕将一切所有的都给了以撒。
And Abraham gave all that he had to Isaac.
25:6 但他只把一些礼物给他妾所生的众子，趁自己还活着的时候，打发他们离开他的儿子以撒，往东方之地去。
But to the sons of the concubines that Abraham had, Abraham gave gifts. And he sent them away from Isaac his son, while he was still living, eastward to the
east country.
25:7 亚伯拉罕一生的年日是一百七十五岁。
And these are the days of the years of Abraham's life which he lived, one hundred seventy-five years.
25:8 亚伯拉罕享大寿数，年迈寿足，气绝而死，归到他本民那里。
And Abraham expired and died in a good old age, an old man and full of days, and he was gathered to his people.
25:9 他两个儿子以撒、以实玛利把他埋葬在麦比拉洞里，这洞在幔利前、赫人琐辖的儿子以弗仑的田中，
And Isaac and Ishmael his sons buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which faces Mamre,
25:10 就是亚伯拉罕向赫人买的那块田。亚伯拉罕和他妻子撒拉都葬在那里。
The field which Abraham purchased of the children of Heth; there Abraham was buried with Sarah his wife.
25:11 亚伯拉罕死了以后，神赐福给他的儿子以撒。以撒靠近庇耳拉海莱居住。
And after the death of Abraham, God blessed Isaac his son. And Isaac dwelt by Beer-lahai-roi.
25:12 以下是以实玛利的后代，以实玛利是撒拉的使女埃及人夏甲给亚伯拉罕所生的儿子。
Now these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's female servant, bore to Abraham.
25:13 以实玛利儿子们的名字，按着他们的排行记在下面：以实玛利的长子是尼拜约，其次是基达、亚德别、米比衫、
And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names according to their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth; then Kedar and Adbeel and
Mibsam
25:14 米施玛、度玛、玛撒、
And Mishma and Dumah and Massa;
25:15 哈大、提玛、伊突、拿非施、基底玛。
Hadad and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah.
25:16 这些是以实玛利的众子，他们按自己的名字称呼他们的村庄、营寨，各按本族作了十二族长。
These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names by their villages and by their encampments, twelve princes according to their peoples.
25:17 以实玛利享寿一百三十七岁，气绝而死，归到他本民那里。
And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, one hundred thirty-seven years. And he expired and died and was gathered to his people.
25:18 他子孙的住处在他众弟兄东边，从哈腓拉直到埃及前的书珥，正在往亚述的路上。
And they dwelt from Havilah to Shur, which faces Egypt, as you go toward Assyria. He settled down opposite all his brothers.
25:19 亚伯拉罕的儿子以撒的后代记在下面：亚伯拉罕生以撒。
And these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son. Abraham begot Isaac.
25:20 以撒娶利百加为妻的时候，年四十岁。利百加是巴旦亚兰地亚兰人彼土利的女儿，是亚兰人拉班的妹妹。
25
And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah, the daughter of Bethuel the Aramaean of Paddan-aram, the sister of Laban the Aramaean, to be his wife.
25:21 以撒因他妻子不生育，就为她祈求耶和华；耶和华应允他的祈求，他的妻子利百加就怀了孕。
And Isaac entreated Jehovah for his wife because she was barren. And Jehovah was entreated of him, and Rebekah his wife conceived.
25:22 孩子们在她里面彼此相争，她就说，若是这样，我为什么活着呢？她就去求问耶和华。
And the children struggled with each other within her. And she said, If it is so, why am I like this? And she went to inquire of Jehovah.
25:23 耶和华对她说，两国在你腹中，两族要从你身内分出。这族必强于那族，将来大的要服事小的。
And Jehovah said to her, Two nations are in your womb, And two peoples shall be separated from your bowels. And the one people shall be stronger than the
other people. And the older shall serve the younger.
25:24 她生产的日子到了，腹中果然是双子。
And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb.
25:25 先出来的身体发红，浑身有毛，如同毛皮衣；他们就给他起名叫以扫。
And the first came forth red, all over like a hairy garment; and they called his name Esau.
25:26 随后以扫的弟弟也出来了，他的手抓住以扫的脚跟，因此给他起名叫雅各。利百加生下两个儿子的时候，以撒年六十岁。
And after that his brother came forth, and his hand was holding on to Esau's heel, so his name was called Jacob. And Isaac was sixty years old when she bore
them.
25:27 两个孩子渐渐长大，以扫善于打猎，常在田野；雅各为人安静，常在帐棚里。
And when the boys grew up, Esau became a skillful hunter, a man of the field; but Jacob was a quiet man, dwelling in tents.
25:28 以撒爱以扫，因为常吃他的野味；利百加却爱雅各。
Now Isaac loved Esau because he had a taste for game, but Rebekah loved Jacob.
25:29 有一天，雅各熬汤，以扫从田野回来累昏了。
And Jacob cooked a stew. And Esau came in from the field, and he was faint.
25:30 以扫对雅各说，我累昏了，求你给我一些红汤喝。因此以扫又叫以东。
And Esau said to Jacob, Let me swallow down some of the red stew, that red stew there, for I am faint. Therefore his name was called Edom.
25:31 雅各说，你先把长子的名分卖给我罢。
And Jacob said, First sell me your birthright.
25:32 以扫说，我现在快死了，这长子的名分对我有什么用？
And Esau said, I am now about to die, so of what use is this birthright to me?
25:33 雅各说，你先对我起誓罢。以扫就对他起誓，把长子的名分卖给雅各。
And Jacob said, First swear to me. And he swore to him and sold his birthright to Jacob.
25:34 于是雅各将饼和红豆汤给了以扫，以扫吃了喝了，便起身走了。以扫就这样轻看了他长子的名分。
And Jacob gave Esau bread and lentil stew, and he ate and drank and rose up and went away. Thus Esau despised his birthright.
创世记 Genesis 第 26 章
26:1 在亚伯拉罕的日子，那地有过一次饥荒；这时又有饥荒，以撒就往基拉耳去，到非利士人的王亚比米勒那里。
And there was a famine in the land, besides the former famine that had occurred in the days of Abraham. So Isaac went to Abimelech the king of the Philistines
at Gerar.
26:2 耶和华向以撒显现，说，你不要下埃及去，要住在我所指示你的地。
And Jehovah appeared to him and said, Do not go down to Egypt; dwell in the land of which I will tell you.
26:3 你寄居在这地，我必与你同在，赐福给你，因为我要将这些地都赐给你和你的后裔；我必坚定我向你父亚伯拉罕所起的誓。
Sojourn in this land, and I will be with you and will bless you; for to you and to your seed I will give all these lands, and I will establish the oath which I swore to
Abraham your father.
26:4 我要使你的后裔繁增，如同天上的星那样多，又要将这些地都赐给你的后裔；并且地上万国必因你的后裔得福；
And I will multiply your seed as the stars of heaven and will give to your seed all these lands; and in your seed all the nations of the earth will be blessed,
26:5 都因亚伯拉罕听从我的话，遵守我的吩咐、命令、律例、法度。
Because Abraham obeyed My voice and kept My charge, My commandments, My statutes, and My laws.
26:6 以撒就住在基拉耳。
So Isaac dwelt in Gerar.
26:7 那地方的人问到他的妻子，他便说，她是我的妹妹。原来他怕说，是我的妻子；他心里想，恐怕这地方的人为利百加的缘故杀我，因为她容貌美丽。
And the men of the place asked about his wife. And he said, She is my sister, for he was afraid to say, My wife, thinking, The men of this place might slay me on
account of Rebekah, because she is beautiful in appearance.
26:8 他在那里住了许久；有一天非利士人的王亚比米勒从窗户里往外观看，见以撒和他的妻子利百加戏玩。
And when he had been there a long time, Abimelech the king of the Philistines looked out through his window and saw, and there was Isaac playfully caressing
Rebekah his wife.
26:9 亚比米勒召了以撒来，说，她实在是你的妻子，你怎么说她是你的妹妹？以撒对他说，因为我想，恐怕我会因她而死。
And Abimelech called Isaac and said, So she is indeed your wife. How then did you say, She is my sister? And Isaac said to him, Because I thought I might die on
account of her.
26:10 亚比米勒说，你向我们作的是什么事？民中有人险些和你的妻同寝，那样你就使我们陷在罪里。
And Abimelech said, What is this you have done to us? One of the people might easily have lain with your wife, and you would have brought guilt upon us.
26:11 于是亚比米勒吩咐众民说，凡触犯这个人或他妻子的，定要把他治死。
And Abimelech charged all the people, saying, He who touches this man or his wife shall surely be put to death.
26:12 以撒在那地撒种，那一年有百倍的收成。耶和华赐福给他，
And Isaac sowed in that land and reaped in the same year a hundredfold. And Jehovah blessed him,
26:13 他就昌大，越发昌盛，成了巨富。
And the man became rich and continued to grow richer until he became very rich.
26:14 他有羊群、牛群，又有许多仆婢，非利士人就嫉妒他。
26
And he had possessions of flocks and possessions of herds and a great household, so that the Philistines envied him.
26:15 当他父亲亚伯拉罕在世的日子，他父亲的仆人所挖的井，非利士人全都塞住，填满了土。
Now all the wells which his father's servants had dug in the days of Abraham his father the Philistines had stopped up and filled with earth.
26:16 亚比米勒对以撒说，你离开我们去罢，因为你比我们强盛得多。
And Abimelech said to Isaac, Go away from us, for you are much mightier than we.
26:17 以撒就离开那里，在基拉耳谷支搭帐棚，住在那里。
So Isaac went away from there and camped in the valley of Gerar and dwelt there.
26:18 当他父亲亚伯拉罕在世之日所挖的水井，因非利士人在亚伯拉罕死后塞住了，以撒就重新挖出来，仍照他父亲所起的，叫那些井的名字。
And Isaac dug again the wells of water which had been dug in the days of Abraham his father, and which the Philistines had stopped up after the death of
Abraham; and he called them by the same names which his father had given them.
26:19 以撒的仆人在谷中挖掘，得了一口活水井。
And Isaac's servants dug in the valley and found there a well of flowing water.
26:20 基拉耳的牧人与以撒的牧人争闹，说，这水是我们的。以撒就给那井起名叫埃色，因为他们和他相争。
And the shepherds of Gerar strove with Isaac's shepherds, saying, The water is ours. So he called the name of the well Esek, because they contended with him.
26:21 以撒的仆人又挖了一口井，他们又为这井争闹，因此以撒给这井起名叫西提拿。
And they dug another well; and they strove over that also, so he called the name of it Sitnah.
26:22 以撒离开那里，又挖了一口井，他们不为这井争闹了，他就给那井起名叫利河伯。他说，耶和华现在给我们宽阔之地，我们必在这地繁衍。
And he moved away from there and dug another well, but they did not strive over it, so he called the name of it Rehoboth; and he said, Now Jehovah has made
room for us, and we will be fruitful in the land.
26:23 以撒从那里上别是巴去。
And he went up from there to Beer-sheba.
26:24 当夜耶和华向他显现，说，我是你父亲亚伯拉罕的神，不要惧怕，因为我与你同在，必赐福给你，并要为我仆人亚伯拉罕的缘故，使你的后裔繁增。
And Jehovah appeared to him the same night and said, I am the God of Abraham your father. Do not be afraid, for I am with you, and I will bless you and
multiply your seed for My servant Abraham's sake.
26:25 以撒就在那里筑了一座坛，呼求耶和华的名，并且支搭帐棚；他的仆人便在那里挖了一口井。
And he built an altar there and called upon the name of Jehovah and pitched his tent there. And there Isaac's servants dug a well.
26:26 亚比米勒同他的谋士亚户撒、和他的军长非各，从基拉耳来见以撒。
And Abimelech came to him from Gerar with Ahuzzath his adviser and Phicol the captain of his army.
26:27 以撒对他们说，你们既然恨我，打发我走了，为什么到我这里来？
And Isaac said to them, Why have you come to me, since you hate me and have sent me away from you?
26:28 他们说，我们明明看见耶和华与你同在；所以我们说，我们不如两下彼此起誓，让我们与你立约，
And they said, We see plainly that Jehovah is with you; so we say, Let there now be an oath between us, even between us and you, and let us make a covenant
with you,
26:29 使你不侵害我们，正如我们未曾触犯你，一味的善待你，并且打发你平平安安的走了。你是蒙耶和华赐福的了。
That you will not do us any harm, just as we have not touched you, and just as we have done to you nothing but good and have sent you away in peace. You are
now the blessed of Jehovah.
26:30 以撒就为他们设摆筵席，他们便吃了喝了。
And he made them a feast, and they ate and drank.
26:31 他们清早起来彼此起誓。以撒打发他们走，他们就平平安安的离开他走了。
And they rose up early in the morning and swore to one another. And Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in peace.
26:32 那一天，以撒的仆人来，将挖井的事告诉他说，我们得了水了。
And the same day Isaac's servants came and told him about the well which they had dug and said to him, We have found water.
26:33 他就给那井起名叫示巴；因此那城名叫别是巴，直到今日。
And he called it Shibah. Therefore the name of the city is Beer-sheba to this day.
26:34 以扫四十岁的时候娶了赫人比利的女儿犹滴，与赫人以伦的女儿巴实抹为妻。
Now when Esau was forty years old, he took as wife Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite and Basemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite.
26:35 她们使以撒和利百加灵里苦恼。
And they caused bitterness of spirit to Isaac and to Rebekah.
创世记 Genesis 第 27 章
27:1 以撒年老，眼睛昏花，不能看见，就叫了他大儿子以扫来，对他说，我儿。以扫说，我在这里。
Now when Isaac was old, and his eyes had become so dim that he could not see, he called Esau his older son and said to him, My son. And he said to him, Here
I am.
27:2 他说，我如今老了，不知道那一天死。
And he said, Behold now, I am old, and I do not know the day of my death.
27:3 现在拿你的器械，就是箭囊和弓，往田野去为我打些野味来，
Now then, please take your weapons, your quiver and your bow, and go out to the field, and hunt game for me,
27:4 照我所爱的作成美味，拿来给我吃，使我在未死之前给你祝福。
And prepare for me a tasty meal, such as I love, and bring it to me to eat, so that I may bless you before I die.
27:5 以撒对他儿子以扫说话的时候，利百加一直在听着。所以当以扫往田野去打猎，要得野味带回来，
Now Rebekah had been listening when Isaac spoke to Esau his son. So when Esau went to the field to hunt for game to bring it home,
27:6 利百加就对她儿子雅各说，我听见你父亲对你哥哥以扫说，
Rebekah spoke to Jacob her son, saying, I just heard your father speaking to Esau your brother, saying,
27:7 你去把野味带来，作成美味给我吃，我好在未死之前，在耶和华面前给你祝福。
Bring me game, and prepare for me a tasty meal so that I may eat it and bless you before Jehovah before my death.
27
27:8 现在，我儿，你要照着我所吩咐你的，听从我的话。
Now therefore, my son, obey my voice, according to that which I command you.
27:9 你到羊群去，给我拿两只肥山羊羔来，我便照你父亲所爱的，给他作成美味。
Go now to the flock, and take two choice kids for me from there, and I will prepare them as a tasty meal for your father, such as he loves.
27:10 你拿到你父亲那里给他吃，使他可以在未死之前给你祝福。
Then you shall bring it to your father to eat, so that he may bless you before his death.
27:11 雅各对他母亲利百加说，你看，我哥哥以扫浑身是有毛的，我身上是光滑的；
And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, Behold, Esau my brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man.
27:12 倘若我父亲摸着我，必以我为欺哄人的，我就招来咒诅，不得祝福。
Perhaps my father will feel me, and I will be as a deceiver in his sight, and I will bring upon myself a curse and not a blessing.
27:13 他母亲对他说，我儿，你招的咒诅归到我身上；你只管听我的话，去把羊羔给我拿来。
And his mother said to him, Your curse be on me, my son; only obey my voice, and go, get them for me.
27:14 他便去拿来，交给他母亲；他母亲就照他父亲所爱的，作成美味，
And he went and got them and brought them to his mother; and his mother prepared a tasty meal, such as his father loved.
27:15 利百加又把家里她所存大儿子以扫上好的衣服，给她小儿子雅各穿上；
And Rebekah took the best clothes of Esau her older son, which were with her in the house, and put them on Jacob her younger son.
27:16 又用山羊羔皮，包在雅各的手上、和颈项的光滑处；
And she put the skins of the kids on his hands and on the smooth part of his neck.
27:17 就把所作的美味和饼，交在她儿子雅各的手里。
And she put the tasty meal and the bread that she had prepared into the hand of Jacob her son.
27:18 雅各到他父亲那里说，我父亲。他说，我在这里。我儿，你是谁？
And he came to his father and said, My father. And he said, Here I am. Who are you, my son?
27:19 雅各对他父亲说，我是你的长子以扫；我已照你所吩咐我的行了。请起来坐着，吃我的野味，好给我祝福。
And Jacob said to his father, I am Esau your firstborn; I have done as you told me. Now rise up; sit up and eat some of my game, so that you may bless me.
27:20 以撒对他儿子说，我儿，你怎么找得这么快？他说，因为耶和华你的神使我遇见好机会得着的。
And Isaac said to his son, How is it that you have found it so quickly, my son? And he said, Because Jehovah your God put it in my way.
27:21 以撒对雅各说，我儿，你近前来，让我摸摸你，好知道你真是我的儿子以扫不是。
And Isaac said to Jacob, Please come near that I may feel you, my son, to know whether you are really my son Esau or not.
27:22 雅各就挨近他父亲以撒。以撒摸着他，说，声音是雅各的声音，手却是以扫的手。
And Jacob came near to Isaac his father. And he felt him and said, The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are Esau's hands.
27:23 以撒就辨不出他来，因为他手上有毛，像他哥哥以扫的手一样；以撒就给他祝福；
And he did not recognize him, because his hands were hairy like his brother Esau's hands; so he blessed him.
27:24 又说，你真是我儿子以扫么？他说，我是。
And he said, Are you really my son Esau? And he said, I am.
27:25 以撒说，你递给我，我好吃我儿子的野味，给你祝福。雅各就递给他，他便吃了；又拿酒给他，他也喝了。
And he said, Bring it near to me, and I will eat of my son's game, that I may bless you. So he brought it near to him, and he ate; and he brought him wine, and he
drank.
27:26 他父亲以撒对他说，我儿，你上前来与我亲嘴。
Then his father Isaac said to him, Please come near and kiss me, my son.
27:27 他就上前与父亲亲嘴，他父亲一闻他衣服上的香气，就给他祝福，说，我儿的香气如同耶和华赐福之田地的香气一样。
So he came near and kissed him; and when Isaac smelled the smell of his garments, he blessed him and said, See, the smell of my son-Like the smell of a field
Which Jehovah has blessed.
27:28 愿神赐你天上的甘露，地上的肥土，并丰盈的五谷和新酒。
And may God give you Of the dew of heaven and of the fatness of the earth, And an abundance of grain and new wine.
27:29 愿多民服事你，多国跪拜你。愿你作你弟兄的主，你母亲的儿子向你跪拜。凡咒诅你的，愿他受咒诅；为你祝福的，愿他蒙福。
Let peoples serve you, And nations bow down to you. Be lord over your brothers, And let your mother's sons bow down to you. Cursed be those who curse you,
And blessed be those who bless you.
27:30 以撒为雅各祝福完毕，雅各从他父亲以撒面前出来，他哥哥以扫正打猎回来。
And as soon as Isaac had finished blessing Jacob, when Jacob had just gone out from the presence of Isaac his father, Esau his brother came in from his hunting.
27:31 他也作了美味，拿来给他父亲，说，请父亲起来，吃你儿子的野味，好给我祝福。
And he also had prepared a tasty meal and brought it to his father. And he said to his father, Let my father rise up, and eat some of his son's game, that you may
bless me.
27:32 他父亲以撒对他说，你是谁？他说，我是你的长子以扫。
And Isaac his father said to him, Who are you? And he said, I am your son, your firstborn, Esau.
27:33 以撒就大大的战兢，说，那么是谁得了野味拿来给我呢？你未来之前我已经都吃了，也给他祝福了；他将来也必蒙福。
And Isaac trembled very greatly and said, Who was it then who hunted game and brought it to me, so that I ate of it all before you came and blessed him? And
blessed will he be.
27:34 以扫听了他父亲的话，就放声苦求，说，我父阿，求你也给我祝福！
When Esau heard the words of his father, he cried with a very great and bitter cry and said to his father, Bless me, even me also, O my father.
27:35 以撒说，你弟弟已经来用诡计将你的福分夺去了。
And he said, Your brother came deceitfully and has taken away your blessing.
27:36 以扫说，他名雅各，岂不是正对么？因为他两次抓夺了我：他从前夺了我长子的名分，你看，他现在又夺了我的福分。以扫又说，你没有为我留下
可祝的福么？
And Esau said, Is he not rightly named Jacob, for he has supplanted me these two times? He took away my birthright, and behold now he has taken away my
blessing. Then he said, Have you not reserved a blessing for me?
27:37 以撒回答以扫说，我已立他为你的主，使他的弟兄都给他作仆人，并赐他五谷新酒可以养生。我儿，现在我还能为你作什么？
28
And Isaac answered and said to Esau, I have already made him your lord, and all his brothers I have given to him for servants; and with grain and new wine I
have sustained him. And what then shall I do for you, my son?
27:38 以扫对他父亲说，父阿，你只有一样可祝的福么？父阿，求你也为我祝福。以扫就放声而哭。
And Esau said to his father, Do you have only one blessing, my father? Bless me, even me also, O my father. And Esau lifted up his voice and wept.
27:39 他父亲以撒回答说，看哪，地上的肥土必不为你所住；天上的甘露必不为你所得。
And Isaac his father answered and said to him, Behold, away from the fatness of the earth shall your dwelling be, And away from the dew of heaven from above.
27:40 你必倚靠刀剑度日，又必服事你的弟弟；到你不受驾驭的时候，必从你颈项上挣开他的轭。
And by your sword shall you live, And you shall serve your brother. And when you become restless, You shall break his yoke from off your neck.
27:41 以扫因他父亲给雅各祝的福，就怨恨雅各，心里说，为我父亲居丧的日子近了，到那时候，我要杀我的弟弟雅各。
And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing with which his father had blessed him; and Esau said in his heart, The days of mourning for my father are near;
then I will slay my brother Jacob.
27:42 有人把利百加大儿子以扫的话告诉利百加，她就打发人去，叫了她小儿子雅各来，对他说，你哥哥以扫想要杀你，消他的恨。
And the words of Esau her older son were told to Rebekah, so she sent and called Jacob her younger son and said to him, Now your brother Esau is consoling
himself concerning you by planning to kill you.
27:43 现在，我儿，你要听我的话；起来，逃往哈兰我哥哥拉班那里去，
Therefore, my son, obey my voice now, and rise up; flee to Laban my brother at Haran,
27:44 同他住些日子，直等你哥哥的忿怒转消了。
And stay with him a few days, until your brother's fury turns away,
27:45 等你哥哥向你消了怒气，忘了你向他所作的事，我便打发人去把你从那里带回来。我为什么要一日丧你们二人呢？
Until your brother's anger turns away from you, and he forgets what you have done to him; then I will send word and get you back from there. Why should I be
bereaved of both of you in one day?
27:46 利百加对以撒说，我因这些赫人的女子，厌烦到不想活了；倘若雅各也从这地的女子中，娶像这些赫人的女子为妻，我活着还有什么意思？
And Rebekah said to Isaac, I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth. If Jacob takes a wife of the daughters of Heth like these, from the daughters
of the land, what good will my life be to me?
创世记 Genesis 第 28 章
28:1 以撒叫了雅各来，给他祝福，并嘱咐他说，你不要娶迦南的女子为妻。
And Isaac called Jacob and blessed him; and he charged him and said to him, You shall not take a wife from the daughters of Canaan.
28:2 你起身往巴旦亚兰去，到你外祖父彼土利家里，在你母舅拉班的女儿中娶一个为妻。
Rise up, go to Paddan-aram, to the house of Bethuel your mother's father; and take from there a wife from the daughters of Laban your mother's brother.
28:3 愿全足的神赐福给你，使你繁衍增多，成为多族；
And may the All-sufficient God bless you and make you fruitful and multiply you, that you may become a company of peoples.
28:4 愿祂将应许亚伯拉罕的福赐给你和你的后裔，使你承受你所寄居的地为业，就是神赐给亚伯拉罕的地。
And may He give you the blessing of Abraham, to you and to your seed with you, that you may possess the land of your sojournings, which God gave to
Abraham.
28:5 以撒打发雅各走了，他就往巴旦亚兰去，到亚兰人彼土利的儿子拉班那里；拉班是雅各、以扫的母亲利百加的哥哥。
And Isaac sent Jacob away, and he went to Paddan-aram, to Laban the son of Bethuel the Aramaean, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau's mother.
28:6 以扫见以撒已经给雅各祝福，打发他往巴旦亚兰去，在那里娶妻，并见以撒祝福的时候嘱咐他说，不要娶迦南的女子为妻，
Now Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob and had sent him away to Paddan-aram to take a wife from there, and that when he blessed him, he charged him,
saying, You shall not take a wife from the daughters of Canaan,
28:7 又见雅各听从父母的话，往巴旦亚兰去了，
And that Jacob had obeyed his father and his mother and had gone to Paddan-aram.
28:8 以扫就看出他父亲以撒不喜欢迦南的女子，
So Esau saw that the daughters of Canaan displeased Isaac his father.
28:9 便往以实玛利那里去，在他两个妻子之外，又娶了玛哈拉为妻。她是亚伯拉罕儿子以实玛利的女儿，尼拜约的妹妹。
Then Esau went to Ishmael and took Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael, Abraham's son, and the sister of Nebaioth to be his wife, in addition to the wives that he
had.
28:10 雅各出了别是巴，向哈兰走去；
And Jacob went out from Beer-sheba and went toward Haran.
28:11 到了一个地方，因为太阳落了，就在那里过夜；他拾起那地方的一块石头枕在头下，在那里躺卧睡了。
And he came to a certain place and spent the night there, because the sun had set; and he took one of the stones of the place and put it under his head, and he
lay down in that place.
28:12 他梦见一个梯子立在地上，梯子的顶通着天，有神的使者在梯子上，上去下来。
And he dreamed: There was a ladder set up on the earth, and its top reached to heaven; and there the angels of God were ascending and descending on it.
28:13 耶和华站在梯子以上，说，我是耶和华你祖亚伯拉罕的神，也是以撒的神；我要将你现在所躺卧之地，赐给你和你的后裔。
And there was Jehovah, standing above it; and He said, I am Jehovah, the God of Abraham your father and the God of Isaac. The land on which you lie, I will give
to you and to your seed.
28:14 你的后裔必像地上的尘沙那样多，必向东西南北开展；地上万族必因你和你的后裔得福。
And your seed will be as the dust of the earth, and you will spread abroad to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south, and in you and in your
seed will all the families of the earth be blessed.
28:15 看哪，我与你同在；你无论往那里去，我必保守你，使你归回这地。我总不离弃你，直到我成就了向你所应许的。
And, behold, I am with you and will keep you wherever you go and will cause you to return to this land, for I will not leave you until I have done what I have
promised you.
28:16 雅各睡醒了，就说，耶和华真在这地方，我竟不知道。
And Jacob awoke from his sleep and said, Surely Jehovah is in this place, and I did not know it.
29
28:17 他就惧怕，说，这地方何等可畏！这不是别的，乃是神的家，也是天的门。
And he was afraid and said, How awesome is this place! This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.
28:18 雅各清早起来，把所枕的石头立作柱子，浇油在上面。
And Jacob rose up early in the morning and took the stone that he had put under his head, and he set it up as a pillar and poured oil on top of it.
28:19 他就给那地方起名叫伯特利；但那城起先名叫路斯。
And he called the name of that place Bethel, but the name of the city was Luz previously.
28:20 雅各许愿说，神若与我同在，在我去的路上保守我，又给我食物吃，衣服穿，
And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me and will keep me in this way that I go and will give me bread to eat and garments to put on,
28:21 使我平平安安的回到我父亲的家，我就必以耶和华为我的神。
So that I return to my father's house in peace, then Jehovah will be my God,
28:22 我所立为柱子的石头也必作神的家；凡你所赐给我的，我必将十分之一献给你。
And this stone, which I have set up as a pillar, will be God's house; and of all that You give me I will surely give one tenth to You.
创世记 Genesis 第 29 章
29:1 雅各往前行，到了东方人之地，
Then Jacob went on his journey and came to the land of the children of the east.
29:2 看见田间有一口井，有三群羊卧在井旁；因为人都是用那井里的水给羊群喝。井口上的石头很大。
And he looked, and there in the field was a well, and there three flocks of sheep were lying beside it; for from that well they watered the flocks. And the stone on
the mouth of the well was large.
29:3 当所有的羊群在那里聚齐了，人就把石头转离井口，给羊喝水，随后又把石头放回井口原处。
And when all the flocks would gather there, they would roll the stone from the mouth of the well and water the sheep; then they would put the stone back on the
mouth of the well in its place.
29:4 雅各对他们说，弟兄们，你们是那里来的？他们说，我们是哈兰来的。
And Jacob said to them, My brothers, where are you from? And they said, We are from Haran.
29:5 他问他们说，拿鹤的孙子拉班，你们认识么？他们说，我们认识。
And he said to them, Do you know Laban the son of Nahor? And they said, We do know him.
29:6 雅各说，他平安么？他们说，平安。看哪，他女儿拉结领着羊来了。
And he said to them, Is it well with him? And they said, It is well, and here is his daughter Rachel coming with the sheep.
29:7 雅各说，你们看，日头还高，不是聚集牲口的时候，你们不如给羊喝了水，再去牧放。
And he said, Look, it is still full day; and it is not time for the livestock to be gathered together. Water the sheep, and go feed them.
29:8 他们说，我们不能，必须等羊群都聚齐，人把石头转离井口，那时才可给羊喝水。
And they said, We cannot until all the flocks are gathered together and they roll the stone from the mouth of the well; then we water the sheep.
29:9 雅各正和他们说话的时候，拉结领着她父亲的羊来了，因为那些羊是她牧放的。
While he was still speaking with them, Rachel came with the sheep which belonged to her father, for she was a shepherdess.
29:10 雅各看见母舅拉班的女儿拉结和母舅拉班的羊群，就上前把石头转离井口，给他母舅拉班的羊群喝水。
Now when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban his mother's brother and the sheep of Laban his mother's brother, Jacob drew near and rolled the stone
from the mouth of the well, and watered the flock of Laban his mother's brother.
29:11 雅各与拉结亲嘴，就放声而哭。
Then Jacob kissed Rachel and lifted up his voice and wept.
29:12 雅各告诉拉结，自己是她父亲的外甥，是利百加的儿子；拉结就跑去告诉她父亲。
And Jacob told Rachel that he was her father's relative and that he was Rebekah's son. And she ran and told her father.
29:13 拉班听见外甥雅各的消息，就跑去迎接，抱着他，与他亲嘴，领他到自己的家。雅各将一切的情由告诉了拉班。
And when Laban heard the news of Jacob his sister's son, he ran to meet him. And he embraced him and kissed him and brought him to his house. Then Jacob
related to Laban all these things.
29:14 拉班对他说，你实在是我的骨肉。雅各就和他同住了一个月。
And Laban said to him, Surely you are my bone and my flesh. And he stayed with him a month.
29:15 拉班对雅各说，你虽是我的外甥，岂可白白的服事我？请告诉我，你要什么为工价？
And Laban said to Jacob, Because you are my relative, should you therefore serve me for nothing? Tell me, what shall your wages be?
29:16 拉班有两个女儿，大的名叫利亚，小的名叫拉结。
Now Laban had two daughters; the name of the older was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel.
29:17 利亚的眼睛没有神气，拉结却生得形貌美丽。
And Leah's eyes were dull, but Rachel was beautiful in form and beautiful in appearance.
29:18 雅各爱拉结，就说，我愿为你小女儿拉结服事你七年。
And Jacob loved Rachel. And he said, I will serve you seven years for Rachel your younger daughter.
29:19 拉班说，我把她给你，胜过给别人；你与我同住罢。
And Laban said, It is better that I give her to you than that I should give her to another man; stay with me.
29:20 雅各就为拉结服事了七年；他因为深爱拉结，就看这七年如同几天。
And Jacob served seven years for Rachel, but they seemed to him only a few days because of the love he had for her.
29:21 雅各对拉班说，日期已经满了，求你把我的妻子给我，我好与她同房。
And Jacob said to Laban, Give me my wife that I may go in to her, for my time is completed.
29:22 拉班就摆设筵席，请齐了那地方的众人。
And Laban gathered together all the men of the place and made a feast.
29:23 但到了晚上，拉班却将女儿利亚送来给雅各，雅各就与她同房。
But in the evening he took Leah his daughter and brought her to him, and he went in to her.
29:24 拉班又将自己的婢女悉帕给女儿利亚作使女。
30
And Laban gave Zilpah his female servant to his daughter Leah to be her female servant.
29:25 到了早晨，雅各一看，竟是利亚，就对拉班说，你向我作的是什么事？我服事你，不是为拉结么？你为什么欺哄我？
And in the morning there she was, Leah! And he said to Laban, What is this you have done to me? Did I not serve with you for Rachel? Why then have you
deceived me?
29:26 拉班说，大女儿还没有给人，先把小女儿给人，在我们这地方没有这样作的。
And Laban said, It is not done in this way in our place, to give the younger before the firstborn.
29:27 你为这一个满了七日，我们就把那一个也给你，只要你再为她服事我七年。
Complete the week of this one, and we will give you the other also for the service which you will serve with me for another seven years.
29:28 雅各就如此行；满了利亚的七日，拉班便将女儿拉结给雅各为妻。
And Jacob did so and completed her week, and he gave him Rachel his daughter as a wife.
29:29 拉班又将自己的婢女辟拉给女儿拉结作使女。
And Laban gave to Rachel his daughter Bilhah his female servant to be her female servant.
29:30 雅各也与拉结同房，并且爱拉结胜过爱利亚，于是又服事了拉班七年。
And he went in also to Rachel and also loved Rachel rather than Leah, and he served with Laban for another seven years.
29:31 耶和华见利亚失宠，就使她生育；拉结却不生育。
Now when Jehovah saw that Leah was hated, He opened her womb; but Rachel was barren.
29:32 利亚怀孕生子，就给他起名叫流便，因为她说，耶和华看见我的苦情，如今我的丈夫必爱我。
And Leah conceived and bore a son, and she called his name Reuben, for she said, Because Jehovah has looked upon my affliction, surely now my husband will
love me.
29:33 她又怀孕生子，就说，耶和华因为听见我失宠，所以又赐给我这个儿子，于是给他起名叫西缅。
And she conceived again and bore a son and said, Because Jehovah has heard that I am hated, He has therefore given me this son also; so she called his name
Simeon.
29:34 她又怀孕生子，说，我给丈夫生了三个儿子，这次他必与我联合，因此起名叫利未。
And she conceived again and bore a son and said, Now this time my husband will be joined to me, because I have borne him three sons. Therefore his name
was called Levi.
29:35 她又怀孕生子，说，这次我要赞美耶和华，因此给他起名叫犹大。这才停了生育。
And she conceived again and bore a son and said, This time I will praise Jehovah. Therefore she called his name Judah. Then she ceased bearing.
创世记 Genesis 第 30 章
30:1 拉结见自己没有给雅各生孩子，就嫉妒她姐姐，对雅各说，你给我孩子，不然我就死了。
And when Rachel saw that she bore Jacob no children, Rachel envied her sister and said to Jacob, Give me children, or else I die.
30:2 雅各向拉结生气，说，叫你不怀胎的是神，我岂能代替祂作主呢？拉结说，
And Jacob's anger burned against Rachel, and he said, Am I in the place of God, who has withheld from you the fruit of the womb?
30:3 有我的使女辟拉在这里，你可以与她同房，使她生子抱在我膝上，我便因她也得孩子。
And she said, Here is my servant Bilhah; go in to her, that she may bear upon my knees and that I also may have children through her.
30:4 拉结就把她的使女辟拉给丈夫为妻，雅各便与她同房。
And she gave him Bilhah her female servant as a wife, and Jacob went in to her.
30:5 辟拉就怀孕，给雅各生了一个儿子。
And Bilhah conceived and bore Jacob a son.
30:6 拉结说，神伸了我的冤，也听了我的声音，赐我一个儿子，因此给他起名叫但。
And Rachel said, God has judged me, and has also heard my voice and given me a son; therefore she called his name Dan.
30:7 拉结的使女辟拉又怀孕，给雅各生了第二个儿子。
And Bilhah Rachel's female servant conceived again and bore Jacob a second son.
30:8 拉结说，我在与神的角力中，与我姐姐角力，并且得了胜，于是给孩子起名叫拿弗他利。
And Rachel said, In wrestling with God, I have wrestled with my sister and have prevailed; so she called his name Naphtali.
30:9 利亚见自己停了生育，就把她的使女悉帕给雅各为妻。
Now when Leah saw that she ceased bearing, she took Zilpah her female servant and gave her to Jacob as a wife.
30:10 利亚的使女悉帕给雅各生了一个儿子。
And Zilpah Leah's female servant bore Jacob a son.
30:11 利亚说，万幸。于是给他起名叫迦得。
And Leah said, How fortunate! So she called his name Gad.
30:12 利亚的使女悉帕又给雅各生了第二个儿子。
And Zilpah Leah's female servant bore Jacob a second son.
30:13 利亚说，我真快乐，众女子都要称我为有福，于是给孩子起名叫亚设。
And Leah said, Happy am I! For the daughters will call me blessed; so she called his name Asher.
30:14 收割麦子的时候，流便出去，在田里寻见风茄，就拿来给他母亲利亚。拉结对利亚说，请你把你儿子的风茄给我一些。
And Reuben went out in the days of wheat harvest and found mandrakes in the field and brought them to his mother Leah. Then Rachel said to Leah, Please give
me some of your son's mandrakes.
30:15 利亚说，你夺了我的丈夫还算小事么？你又要夺我儿子的风茄？拉结说，那么，为了交换你儿子的风茄，今夜他可以与你同寝。
And she said to her, Is it a small matter that you have taken away my husband? And would you take away my son's mandrakes also? So Rachel said, Then he
may lie with you tonight in return for your son's mandrakes.
30:16 到了晚上，雅各从田里回来，利亚出来迎接他，说，你要与我同寝，因为我实在是用我儿子的风茄把你雇下了。那一夜，雅各就与她同寝。
And Jacob came from the field in the evening, and Leah went out to meet him and said, You must come in to me, for I have surely hired you with my son's
mandrakes. So he lay with her that night.
30:17 神垂听了利亚，她就怀孕，给雅各生了第五个儿子。
31
And God gave heed to Leah, and she conceived and bore Jacob a fifth son.
30:18 利亚说，神给了我工价，因为我把使女给了我丈夫，于是给孩子起名叫以萨迦。
And Leah said, God has given me my hire, because I gave my female servant to my husband; so she called his name Issachar.
30:19 利亚又怀孕，给雅各生了第六个儿子。
And Leah conceived again and bore a sixth son to Jacob.
30:20 利亚说，神赐我厚礼；这次我丈夫必与我同住，因为我给他生了六个儿子，于是给孩子起名叫西布伦。
And Leah said, God has endowed me with a good dowry; now my husband will dwell with me, because I have borne him six sons; so she called his name
Zebulun.
30:21 后来又生了一个女儿，给她起名叫底拿。
And afterward she bore a daughter and called her name Dinah.
30:22 神记念拉结，垂听了她，使她能生育。
Then God remembered Rachel, and God gave heed to her and opened her womb.
30:23 拉结怀孕生子，说，神除去了我的羞辱，
And she conceived and bore a son and said, God has taken away my reproach.
30:24 就给他起名叫约瑟，说，愿耶和华再给我增添一个儿子。
And she called his name Joseph, saying, May Jehovah add to me another son.
30:25 拉结生约瑟之后，雅各对拉班说，请打发我走，叫我回到我本乡本地去。
And when Rachel had borne Joseph, Jacob said to Laban, Send me away, that I may go to my own place and to my own country.
30:26 请你把我服事你所得的妻子和儿女给我，让我走；我怎样服事你，你都知道。
Give me my wives and my children for whom I have served you, that I may go; for you indeed know my service by which I have served you.
30:27 拉班对他说，我若在你眼前蒙恩，请你仍与我同住，因为我已算定，耶和华赐福与我是因你的缘故；
And Laban said to him, If you please, I have divined that Jehovah has blessed me on account of you.
30:28 又说，请你指明你的工价，我就给你。
And he said, Name me your wages, and I will give it.
30:29 雅各对他说，我怎样服事你，你的牲口在我手里怎样，你是知道的。
And Jacob said to him, You indeed know how I have served you, and how your livestock have fared with me.
30:30 我未来之前，你所有的很少，现今却发达增多，耶和华随我的脚步赐福与你。如今，我什么时候也为自己的家作些事呢？
For you had little before I came, and it has spread into a multitude, and Jehovah has blessed you wherever I turned. But now when shall I provide for my own
house also?
30:31 拉班说，我当给你什么？雅各说，你什么也不必给我；只要你为我作这一件事，我便仍旧牧放看守你的羊群。
And he said, What shall I give you? And Jacob said, You shall not give me anything. Just do this one thing for me: Let me again feed your flock and keep it.
30:32 今天我要走遍你的羊群，把其中凡有点的、有斑的，就是绵羊中黑色的，并山羊中有斑的、有点的，都挑出来；将来这一等的就算是我的工价。
Let me pass through all your flock today, removing from there every speckled and spotted animal, that is, every black animal among the sheep, and the spotted
and speckled among the goats; and such will be my wages.
30:33 以后你来查看我的工价，凡在我手里的山羊不是有点有斑的，绵羊不是黑色的，那就算是我偷的；这样便可证出我的公义。
So my righteousness will testify for me later, when you come concerning my wages, by what is before you. Every one that is not speckled and spotted among the
goats and black among the sheep, if found with me, will be counted stolen.
30:34 拉班说，好阿，就照着你的话行罢。
And Laban said, Fine; let it be according to your word.
30:35 当日，拉班把有纹的、有斑的公山羊，有点的、有斑的母山羊，就是凡杂有白色的山羊，并黑色的绵羊，都挑出来，交在他儿子们的手下，
But on that day he removed the male goats that were streaked and spotted, and all the female goats that were speckled and spotted, every one that had white
in it, and all the black ones among the sheep, and gave them into the care of his sons;
30:36 又使自己和雅各相离三天的路程；雅各就牧养拉班其余的羊。
And he set a distance of a three days' journey between himself and Jacob, and Jacob fed the rest of Laban's flocks.
30:37 雅各拿杨树、杏树、枫树的嫩枝，将皮剥成白纹，使枝子露出白的来；
And Jacob took rods of fresh poplar and almond and plane trees and peeled white stripes in them, exposing the white which was in the rods.
30:38 他将剥了皮的枝子，对着羊群，插在羊群喝水的水槽里；羊来喝水的时候，公母交配。
And he set the rods which he had peeled in front of the flocks in the troughs, that is, in the watering places where the flocks came to drink; and they bred when
they came to drink.
30:39 羊对着枝子交配，就生下有纹的、有点的、有斑的来。
And the flocks bred before the rods; and the flocks brought forth young that were streaked, speckled, and spotted.
30:40 雅各把羊羔分出来，使拉班的羊与这有纹和黑色的羊相对，把自己的羊另放一处，不叫他的羊和拉班的羊混杂。
And Jacob separated the lambs and set the faces of the flock toward the streaked and all the black in the flock of Laban, and he put his own herds apart and did
not put them with Laban's flock.
30:41 当羊群中肥壮的交配的时候，雅各就把枝子插在水槽里，正在羊群的眼前，使羊对着枝子交配。
And whenever the stronger of the flock were breeding, Jacob placed the rods before the eyes of the flock in the troughs so that they might breed among the rods;
30:42 只是在羊群瘦弱的时候，就不插枝子。这样，瘦弱的就归拉班，肥壮的就归雅各。
But when the flock was feebler, he did not put them in; so the feebler were Laban's, and the stronger Jacob's.
30:43 于是雅各极其发达，得了许多的羊群、仆人、婢女、骆驼和驴。
And the man became spread out exceedingly, and had large flocks, and female servants and male servants, and camels and donkeys.
创世记 Genesis 第 31 章
31:1 雅各听见拉班的儿子们有话说，雅各把我们父亲所有的都夺去了，他是从我们父亲所有的得了这一切的财富；
Now Jacob heard the words of Laban's sons, saying, Jacob has taken away all that belonged to our father; and from what belonged to our father he has made
all this wealth.
32
31:2 并且雅各见拉班的脸色向他不如从前了。
And Jacob saw Laban's countenance, and now it was not favorable toward him as previously.
31:3 耶和华对雅各说，你要回你祖你父之地，到你亲族那里去，我必与你同在。
And Jehovah said to Jacob, Return to the land of your fathers and to your relatives, and I will be with you.
31:4 雅各就打发人，叫拉结和利亚到田野他的羊群那里去，
So Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to his flock in the field,
31:5 对她们说，我看你们父亲的脸色向我不如从前了；但我父亲的神向来与我同在。
And he said to them, I see that your father's countenance is not favorable toward me as previously, but the God of my father has been with me.
31:6 你们自己也知道，我尽了我的力量服事你们的父亲。
And you yourselves know that with all my strength I have served your father.
31:7 你们的父亲欺哄我，十次改了我的工价；然而神不容许他害我。
And your father has cheated me and changed my wages ten times, but God did not allow him to harm me.
31:8 他若说，有点的归你作工价，羊群所生的都有点；他若说，有纹的归你作工价，羊群所生的都有纹。
If he spoke in this way, The speckled shall be your wages, then all the flock bore speckled; and if he spoke in this way, The streaked shall be your wages, then all
the flock bore streaked.
31:9 这样，神把你们父亲的牲畜夺来赐给我了。
Thus God has taken away your father's livestock and given them to me.
31:10 羊群交配的时候，我在梦中举目一看，见跳母羊的公山羊都是有纹的、有点的、有花斑的。
And at the time the flock was breeding, I lifted up my eyes and saw in a dream; and there were the male goats, leaping upon the flock-streaked, speckled, and
spotted.
31:11 神的使者在那梦中对我说，雅各。我说，我在这里。
And the Angel of God said to me in the dream, Jacob; and I said, Here I am.
31:12 祂说，你举目观看，跳母羊的公山羊都是有纹的、有点的、有花斑的；凡拉班向你所作的，我都看见了。
And He said, Lift up now your eyes, and see that all the male goats which leap upon the flock are streaked, speckled, and spotted; for I have seen all that Laban
has been doing to you.
31:13 我是伯特利的神；你在那里用油抹过柱子，向我许过愿。现在你起来，离开这地，回你的出生地去罢。
I am the God of Bethel, where you anointed a pillar, where you vowed a vow to Me. Rise up now; go out from this land, and return to the land of your birth.
31:14 拉结和利亚回答雅各说，在我们父亲的家里还有我们可得的分么？还有我们的产业么？
And Rachel and Leah answered and said to him, Do we still have any portion or inheritance in our father's house?
31:15 我们不是被他当作外人么？因为他卖了我们，吞尽了我们的身价。
Are we not regarded by him as foreigners? For he has sold us and has even entirely used up the money given for us.
31:16 神从我们父亲所夺出来的一切财富，那就是我们和我们孩子们的。现今凡神所吩咐你的，你只管去行罢。
Surely all the wealth which God has taken away from our father is ours and our children's. So do now whatever God has said to you.
31:17 于是雅各起来，使他的儿子和妻子都骑上骆驼，
Then Jacob rose up and set his sons and his wives upon the camels;
31:18 又带着他在巴旦亚兰所得的一切牲畜和财物，往迦南地他父亲以撒那里去了。
And he drove away all his livestock and all his property which he had acquired, the livestock in his possession which he had acquired in Paddan-aram, in order
to go to Isaac his father in the land of Canaan.
31:19 当时拉班剪羊毛去了，拉结偷了他父亲的神像。
Now Laban had gone to shear his sheep, and Rachel stole the household idols that were her father's.
31:20 雅各瞒着亚兰人拉班逃走了，并不告诉他，
And Jacob deceived Laban the Aramaean by not telling him that he was fleeing.
31:21 就带着所有的逃跑。他起身过了大河，面向基列山地行去。
So he fled with all that he had, and he rose up and crossed over the River and set his face toward the hill country of Gilead.
31:22 到第三日，有人告诉拉班，雅各逃跑了。
And it was told Laban on the third day that Jacob had fled.
31:23 拉班带领他的众弟兄去追赶，追了七日，就在基列山地追上了。
And he took his brothers with him and pursued after him the distance of a seven days' journey; and he overtook him in the hill country of Gilead.
31:24 夜间，神到亚兰人拉班那里，在梦中对他说，你要小心，不可与雅各说好说歹。
And God came to Laban the Aramaean in a dream of the night and said to him, Be careful that you do not speak to Jacob either good or bad.
31:25 拉班追上雅各。雅各在山地支搭帐棚；拉班和他的众弟兄也在基列山地支搭帐棚。
And Laban caught up with Jacob. Now Jacob had pitched his tent in the hill country, and Laban with his brothers also pitched tents in the hill country of Gilead.
31:26 拉班对雅各说，你作的是什么事呢？你瞒着我逃走了，又把我的女儿们带走了，如同用刀剑掳去的一般。
And Laban said to Jacob, What are you doing deceiving me and carrying away my daughters like captives of the sword?
31:27 你为什么暗暗的逃跑，偷着走，并不告诉我，叫我可以欢乐、唱歌、击鼓、弹琴来给你送行？
Why did you flee secretly and steal away from me and not tell me, when I might have sent you away with joy and with songs, with tambourine and with lyre?
31:28 又不让我与外孙和女儿亲嘴？你所行的真是愚昧。
And you did not allow me to kiss my sons and my daughters. Now you have acted foolishly.
31:29 我原有能力害你，只是你父亲的神昨夜对我说，你要小心，不可与雅各说好说歹。
It is in my power to do you harm, but the God of your father spoke to me last night, saying, Be careful that you do not speak to Jacob either good or bad.
31:30 现在你虽然很想你父家，不得不去，为什么又偷了我的神像呢？
And now, though you had to go because you longed greatly for your father's house, why did you steal my gods?
31:31 雅各回答拉班说，因为我害怕，以为你会把你的女儿从我手里夺去。
And Jacob answered and said to Laban, Because I was afraid, for I thought that you might take your daughters from me by force.
31:32 至于你的神像，你在谁那里搜出来，谁就不得存活。当着我们的众弟兄，你认一认，在我这里有什么东西是你的，就拿去。原来雅各不知道拉结偷
了那些神像。
33
The one with whom you find your gods shall not live. In the presence of our brothers indicate what there is with me that is yours, and take it. Now Jacob did not
know that Rachel had stolen them.
31:33 拉班进了雅各、利亚、并两个使女的帐棚，都没有搜出来，就从利亚的帐棚出来，进了拉结的帐棚。
And Laban went into Jacob's tent and into Leah's tent and into the two female servants' tent, but he did not find them. Then he went from Leah's tent and entered
Rachel's tent.
31:34 拉结已经把神像藏在骆驼的驮篓里，并且坐在上头。拉班摸遍了那帐棚，并没有摸着。
Now Rachel had taken the household idols and put them in the camel's saddle, and she sat upon them. And Laban rummaged through all the tent but did not
find them.
31:35 拉结对她父亲说，现在我身上不便，不能在你面前起来，求我主不要动怒。这样，拉班搜寻神像，竟没有搜出来。
And she said to her father, Let not my lord be angry that I cannot rise up before you, for the manner of women is upon me. So he searched but did not find the
household idols.
31:36 雅各就发怒，与拉班争论，说，我有什么过犯，有什么罪，你竟这样火速的追我？
And Jacob became angry and contended with Laban; and Jacob answered and said to Laban, What is my transgression? What is my sin, that you have so hotly
pursued me?
31:37 你摸遍了我一切的物件，搜出什么是你家的东西呢？可以放在你我的弟兄们面前，叫他们在我们二人中间判断判断。
Although you have rummaged through all my possessions, what have you found of all your household goods? Set it here before my brothers and your brothers,
that they may decide between the two of us.
31:38 我同你在一起这二十年，你的母绵羊、母山羊没有掉过胎；你群中的公羊，我没有吃过；
These twenty years have I been with you; your ewes and your female goats have not miscarried, and I have not eaten the rams of your flocks.
31:39 被野兽撕裂的，我没有带来给你，是我自己赔上。无论是白日，是黑夜，被偷去的，你都向我索要。
That which was torn by beasts I did not bring to you; I bore the loss of it myself. Of my hand you required it, whether stolen by day or stolen by night.
31:40 我白日受干热销磨，黑夜受寒霜侵蚀，不得合眼睡着，我常是这样。
Thus I was: By day the dry heat consumed me, and the frost by night, and my sleep fled from my eyes.
31:41 我这二十年在你家里，为你的两个女儿服事你十四年，为你的羊群服事你六年，你十次改了我的工价。
These twenty years have I been in your house; I served you fourteen years for your two daughters and six years for your flock, and you have changed my wages
ten times.
31:42 若不是我父亲的神，就是亚伯拉罕的神，以撒所敬畏的神与我同在，你如今必定打发我空手而去。神看见我的苦情和我的劳碌，就在昨夜责备你。
If the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the Dread of Isaac, had not been with me, surely now you would have sent me away empty. God has seen my
affliction and the labor of my hands and rebuked you last night.
31:43 拉班回答雅各说，女儿是我的女儿，孩子是我的孩子，羊群也是我的羊群；凡在你眼前的都是我的。我的女儿并她们所生的孩子，我今日能向他们
作什么呢？
And Laban answered and said to Jacob, The daughters are my daughters, and the children are my children, and the flocks are my flocks, and all that you see is
mine. But what can I do this day to these my daughters or to their children whom they have borne?
31:44 来罢，你我二人可以立约，作你我中间的证据。
So come now; let us make a covenant, I and you; and let it be a witness between me and you.
31:45 雅各就拿一块石头，立作柱子，
So Jacob took a stone and set it up as a pillar.
31:46 又对众弟兄说，你们捡聚石头。他们就拿石头来堆成一堆，大家便在旁边吃喝。
And Jacob said to his brothers, Gather stones. So they took stones and made a heap, and they ate there by the heap.
31:47 拉班称那石堆为伊迦尔撒哈杜他，雅各却称那石堆为迦累得。
And Laban called it Jegar-sahadutha, but Jacob called it Galeed.
31:48 拉班说，今日这石堆作你我中间的证据。因此那地方名叫迦累得，
And Laban said, This heap is witness between me and you today. Therefore its name was called Galeed
31:49 又叫米斯巴，因为他说，我们彼此离别以后，愿耶和华在你我中间鉴察。
And Mizpah, because he said, Jehovah watch between me and you when we are absent from one another.
31:50 你若苦待我的女儿，又在我的女儿以外另娶妻子，虽然没有人同我们在一起，却有神在你我中间作见证。
If you afflict my daughters, and if you take wives besides my daughters-even though no man is with us-see, God is witness between me and you.
31:51 拉班又对雅各说，你看这石堆，和我在你我中间所立的柱子。
And Laban said to Jacob, Here is this heap, and here is the pillar which I have set between me and you.
31:52 这石堆作证据，这柱子也作证据；我必不过这石堆去害你，你也不可过这石堆和柱子来害我。
This heap is a witness, and the pillar is a witness, that I will not pass beyond this heap to you and that you will not pass beyond this heap and this pillar to me, for
harm.
31:53 但愿亚伯拉罕的神和拿鹤的神，就是他们父亲的神，在你我中间判断。雅各就指着他父亲以撒所敬畏的神起誓，
The God of Abraham and the God of Nahor, the God of their father, judge between us. And Jacob swore by the Dread of his father Isaac.
31:54 又在山上献祭，请众弟兄来吃饭。他们吃了饭，便在山上过夜。
And Jacob offered a sacrifice on the mountain and called his brothers to eat a meal, and they ate a meal and spent the night in the mountain.
31:55 拉班清早起来，与他外孙和女儿亲嘴，给他们祝福，就离开那里，回自己的地方去了。
And early in the morning Laban rose up and kissed his sons and his daughters and blessed them, and Laban departed and returned to his place.
创世记 Genesis 第 32 章
32:1 雅各仍旧行路，神的众使者遇见他。
And Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him.
32:2 雅各看见他们就说，这是神的军营，于是给那地方起名叫玛哈念。
And Jacob said when he saw them, This is God's camp. So he called the name of that place Mahanaim.
32:3 雅各打发报信的人先往西珥地，以东乡间，见他哥哥以扫；
34
And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother, into the land of Seir, the field of Edom.
32:4 他吩咐他们说，你们要对我主以扫这样说：你的仆人雅各这样说，我在拉班那里寄居，直留到如今。
And he commanded them, saying, Thus you shall say to my lord Esau: Thus says your servant Jacob, I have sojourned with Laban and stayed until now;
32:5 我有牛、驴、羊群、仆人、婢女，现在打发人来报告我主，为要在你眼前蒙恩。
And I have oxen and donkeys and flocks, and male servants and female servants; and I have sent to tell my lord this, that I may find favor in your sight.
32:6 报信的人回到雅各那里，说，我们到了你哥哥以扫那里，他正迎着你来，同他一起的有四百人。
And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to your brother Esau, and he also is coming to meet you; and four hundred men are with him.
32:7 雅各就甚惧怕，而且愁烦，便把那与他同在的人口和羊群、牛群、骆驼分作两队，
Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed; and he divided the people who were with him and the flocks and the herds and the camels into two camps;
32:8 说，以扫若来击杀这一队，剩下的那一队还可以逃避。
And he said, If Esau comes to the one camp and attacks it, then the camp which is left will escape.
32:9 雅各说，耶和华我祖亚伯拉罕的神，我父亲以撒的神阿，你曾对我说，回你本地，到你亲族那里去，我要善待你。
Then Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac, O Jehovah, who said to me, Return to your country and to your relatives, and I will do
you good,
32:10 你向仆人所施的一切慈爱和信实，我一点也不配得；我先前只拿着我的杖过这约但河，如今我却成了两队。
I am not worthy of all the lovingkindnesses and of all the faithfulness which You have shown to Your servant, for with my staff only I crossed over this Jordan, and
now I have become two camps.
32:11 求你救我脱离我哥哥以扫的手；因为我怕他来击杀我，连妻子带儿女一同击杀了。
Deliver me, please, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau, for I fear him, lest he come and attack me, even the mother with the children.
32:12 你曾说，我必定善待你，使你的后裔如同海沙，多得不可胜数。
But You have said, I will surely do you good and make your seed like the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude.
32:13 当夜，雅各在那里住宿，就从他所有的物中拿礼物要送给他哥哥以扫：
And he spent that night there. Then from what he had with him he took a present for Esau his brother:
32:14 母山羊二百只，公山羊二十只，母绵羊二百只，公绵羊二十只，
Two hundred female goats and twenty male goats, two hundred ewes and twenty rams,
32:15 奶崽子的骆驼三十只，各带着崽子，母牛四十只，公牛十只，母驴二十匹，公驴十匹；
Thirty nursing camels and their young, forty cows and ten bulls, twenty female donkeys and ten male donkeys.
32:16 每样各分一群，交在仆人手下，就对仆人说，你们要在我前头过去，使一群一群之间有个距离；
And he delivered them into the hand of his servants, every drove by itself, and said to his servants, Cross over before me, and put a space between each drove.
32:17 又吩咐尽先走的说，我哥哥以扫遇见你的时候，问你说，你是那家的人？要往那里去？你前头这些牲畜是谁的？
And he commanded the foremost, saying, When Esau my brother meets you and asks you, saying, To whom do you belong? And where are you going? And
whose animals are these before you?
32:18 你就说，是你仆人雅各的，是送给我主以扫的礼物；他自己也在我们后边。
Then you will say, Your servant Jacob's; it is a present sent to my lord Esau; and now he also is behind us.
32:19 又吩咐第二、第三、和一切赶群畜的人说，你们遇见以扫的时候，也要这样对他说；
And he commanded also the second and the third, and all who followed the droves, saying, In this way you shall speak to Esau when you find him,
32:20 并且你们要说，你仆人雅各就在我们后边。因为雅各心里说，我借着在我前头去的礼物解他的恨，然后再见他的面，或者他会接纳我。
And you shall also say, Your servant Jacob is right behind us. For he said, I will appease him with the present that goes before me, and afterward I will see his
face; perhaps he will accept me.
32:21 于是礼物在他前头过去了；那夜，他在队中住宿。
So the present crossed over before him, and he himself spent that night in the camp.
32:22 他夜间起来，带着两个妻子，两个使女，并十一个儿子，过雅博渡口。
And he rose up that night and took his two wives and his two female servants and his eleven children and crossed over the ford of the Jabbok.
32:23 他带着他们，打发他们过河，又打发所有的都过去。
And he took them and sent them over the stream and sent over what he had.
32:24 只剩下雅各一人，有一个人和他摔跤，直到黎明。
And Jacob was left alone, and a man wrestled with him until the break of dawn.
32:25 那人见自己胜不过他，就将他的大腿窝摸了一把；雅各正与那人摔跤的时候，他的大腿窝就脱了节。
And when the man saw that He did not prevail against him, He touched the socket of his hip; and the socket of Jacob's hip was dislocated as he wrestled with
Him.
32:26 那人说，天快亮了，让我去罢。雅各却说，你若不给我祝福，我就不让你去。
And the man said, Let Me go, for the dawn is breaking. But Jacob said, I will not let You go unless You bless me.
32:27 那人对他说，你名叫什么？他说，我名叫雅各。
And He said to him, What is your name? And he said, Jacob.
32:28 那人说，你的名不要再叫雅各，要叫以色列；因为你与神与人较力，都得了胜。
And He said, Your name will no longer be called Jacob, but Israel; for you have struggled with God and with men and have prevailed.
32:29 雅各问祂说，请将你的名告诉我。但那人说，你何必问我的名？于是祂在那里给雅各祝福。
And Jacob asked Him and said, Please tell me Your name. But He said, Why is it that you ask My name? And He blessed him there.
32:30 雅各便给那地方起名叫毗努伊勒，因为他说，我面对面看见了神，我的性命仍得保全。
And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel, for, he said, I have seen God face to face, and yet my life has been preserved.
32:31 日头升起，照在雅各身上，那时他渡过毗努伊勒，他的大腿就瘸了。
And the sun rose upon him as he crossed over Penuel, and he limped because of his hip.
32:32 故此，以色列人不吃大腿窝的筋，直到今日，因为那人摸了雅各大腿窝的筋。
Therefore the children of Israel do not eat the thigh muscle, which is upon the socket of the hip, to this day, because He touched the socket of Jacob's hip at the
thigh muscle.
35
创世记 Genesis 第 33 章
33:1 雅各举目观看，见以扫来了，同他一起的有四百人。他就把孩子们分开交给利亚、拉结、和两个使女，
And Jacob lifted up his eyes and looked, and there was Esau coming, and four hundred men with him. So he divided the children among Leah and among
Rachel and among the two female servants.
33:2 并且叫两个使女和她们的孩子在前面，利亚和她的孩子在后面，拉结和约瑟在最后面。
And he put the female servants and their children in front, and Leah and her children next, and Rachel and Joseph last.
33:3 他自己在他们前头过去，一连七次俯伏在地，直到就近他哥哥。
And he himself passed on before them and bowed down to the ground seven times until he came near to his brother.
33:4 以扫跑来迎接他，将他抱住，又伏在他的颈项上，与他亲嘴，两个人就哭了。
And Esau ran to meet him and embraced him and fell on his neck and kissed him, and they wept.
33:5 以扫举目看见妇人孩子，就说，这些和你同行的是谁？雅各说，这些孩子是神施恩给你仆人的。
And he lifted up his eyes and saw the women and the children and said, Who are these with you? And he said, The children whom God has graciously given your
servant.
33:6 于是两个使女和她们的孩子前来下拜；
Then the female servants came near, they and their children, and they bowed down.
33:7 利亚和她的孩子也前来下拜；随后约瑟和拉结也前来下拜。
And Leah also came near with her children, and they bowed down; and afterward Joseph came near with Rachel, and they bowed down.
33:8 以扫说，我所遇见的这一整队是什么意思？雅各说，是要在我主眼前蒙恩的。
And Esau said, What do you mean by all this camp which I met? And he said, To find favor in the sight of my lord.
33:9 以扫说，弟弟阿，我的已经够了，你的仍归你罢。
And Esau said, I have enough, my brother; let what you have be yours.
33:10 雅各说，不然，我若在你眼前蒙恩，就求你从我手里收下这礼物；因为我看见你的面，如同看见神的面，并且你悦纳了我。
And Jacob said, No, please, if now I have found favor in your sight, then take my present from my hand; for I see your face as one sees the face of God, and you
have received me favorably.
33:11 求你收下我带来给你的礼物；因为神恩待了我，并且我一切都有了。雅各再三的求他，他才收下了。
Please take my blessing which has been brought to you, because God has dealt graciously with me, and because I have all that I need. So he urged him, and he
took it.
33:12 以扫说，我们可以起身前去，我要在你前头走。
Then Esau said, Let us take our journey and go, and I will go before you.
33:13 雅各对他说，我主知道孩子们年幼娇嫩，正在乳养的牛羊也是我所挂心的，若是催赶一天，群畜都必死了。
And he said to him, My lord knows that the children are frail and that the nursing flocks and herds are a concern to me; and if they overdrive them for one day, all
the flock will die.
33:14 求我主在仆人前头走，我要按着在我前面群畜和孩子们的步速慢慢前行，直走到西珥我主那里。
Let my lord please pass on before his servant, and I will lead on slowly according to the pace of the cattle which are before me and according to the pace of the
children until I come to my lord at Seir.
33:15 以扫说，让我把跟随我的人留几个在你这里。雅各说，何必呢？只要在我主眼前蒙恩就是了。
So Esau said, Let me please leave with you some of the people who are with me. And he said, What need is there? Let me find favor in the sight of my lord.
33:16 于是，以扫当日起行，回西珥去了。
So Esau returned that day on his way to Seir.
33:17 雅各就往疏割去，在那里为自己盖造一座房屋，又为牲畜搭棚；因此那地方名叫疏割。
And Jacob journeyed to Succoth and built a house for himself and made booths for his livestock; therefore the name of the place is called Succoth.
33:18 雅各从巴旦亚兰回来的时候，平平安安的到了迦南地的示剑城，在城对面支搭帐棚，
And Jacob came safely to the city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, when he came from Paddan-aram; and he camped before the city.
33:19 就用一百块银子向示剑的父亲哈抹的子孙，买了支帐棚的那块地，
And he bought the piece of land where he had pitched his tent from the hand of the children of Hamor, Shechem's father, for a hundred qesitahs.
33:20 在那里筑了一座坛，起名叫伊利伊罗伊以色列。
And there he erected an altar and called it El-Elohe-Israel.
创世记 Genesis 第 34 章
34:1 利亚给雅各所生的女儿底拿出去，要见那地的女子们。
And Dinah the daughter of Leah, whom she had borne to Jacob, went out to see the daughters of the land.
34:2 那地的族长希未人哈抹的儿子示剑看见她，就拉住她，与她同寝，玷辱了她。
And when Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, the prince of the land, saw her, he took her and lay with her and humbled her.
34:3 示剑的心系恋雅各的女儿底拿，爱这少女，甜言蜜语的安慰她。
And his soul clung to Dinah the daughter of Jacob, and he loved the girl and spoke affectionately to the girl.
34:4 示剑对他父亲哈抹说，求你为我聘这女孩子为妻。
And Shechem spoke to his father Hamor, saying, Get me this young girl as a wife.
34:5 雅各听见示剑玷污了他的女儿底拿；那时他的儿子们正和群畜在田野，雅各就不作声，等他们回来。
Now when Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter, his sons were with his livestock in the field; so Jacob kept silent until they came in.
34:6 示剑的父亲哈抹出来见雅各，要和他商议。
And Hamor the father of Shechem went out to Jacob to speak with him.
34:7 雅各的儿子们听见这事，就从田野回来，人人悲愤，极其恼怒；因为示剑在以色列家作了愚妄的事，与雅各的女儿同寝，这本是不该作的事。
36
And the sons of Jacob came in from the field when they heard of it. And the men were grieved and became very angry, because he had committed folly in Israel
by lying with Jacob's daughter, for such a thing ought not to be done.
34:8 哈抹和他们商议说，我儿子示剑的心恋慕你们的女儿，求你们将她给我的儿子为妻。
And Hamor spoke with them, saying, The soul of my son Shechem longs for your daughter; please give her to him as a wife.
34:9 你们与我们彼此结亲，你们可以把女儿嫁给我们，也可以娶我们的女儿。
And make marriages with us: Give your daughters to us, and take our daughters for yourselves.
34:10 你们与我们同住罢。这地都在你们面前，只管住下来，在这里作买卖，置产业。
And you shall dwell with us, and the land will be before you; dwell and trade in it, and acquire holdings in it.
34:11 示剑对少女的父亲和弟兄们说，但愿我在你们眼前蒙恩，你们向我要什么，我必给你们。
And Shechem said to her father and to her brothers, Let me find favor in your sight, and whatever you say to me I will give.
34:12 任凭向我要多重的聘金和礼物，我必照你们向我所说的给你们；只要把少女给我为妻。
Impose upon me a very large bridal price and gift, and I will give whatever you say to me; but give me the girl as a wife.
34:13 雅各的儿子们因为示剑玷污了他们的姊妹底拿，就用诡诈的话回答示剑和他父亲哈抹，
Then the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father deceitfully; and because he had defiled Dinah their sister they spoke,
34:14 对他们说，我们不能作这事，把我们的姊妹给没有受割礼的人为妻，因为那是我们的羞辱。
And said to them, We are not able to do this thing, to give our sister to one who is uncircumcised, for that would be a reproach to us.
34:15 惟有一件事你们必须作，我们才可以应允：若你们所有的男丁都受割礼，和我们一样，
Only on this condition will we consent to you: If you become like us, and every male among you is circumcised,
34:16 我们就把女儿嫁给你们，也娶你们的女儿；我们便与你们同住，成为一样的人民。
Then we will give our daughters to you, and will take your daughters for ourselves; and we will dwell with you and become one people.
34:17 倘若你们不听我们，不受割礼，我们就带着我们的姊妹走了。
But if you will not listen to us and be circumcised, then we will take our daughter and go.
34:18 哈抹和他的儿子示剑认为这话甚好。
And their words seemed good to Hamor and Shechem, Hamor's son.
34:19 那少年人作这事并不迟延，因为他喜爱雅各的女儿；他在他父亲家中也是人最尊重的。
And the young man did not delay to do the thing, because he delighted in Jacob's daughter. Now he was honored above all the house of his father.
34:20 哈抹和他儿子示剑到本城的门口，对本城的人说，
And Hamor and Shechem his son came to the gate of their city and spoke with the men of their city, saying,
34:21 这些人与我们和睦相处，不如让他们在这地居住，作买卖；这地也宽阔，足可容纳他们。我们可以娶他们的女儿为妻，也可以把我们的女儿嫁给他
们。
These men are with us peacefully; therefore let them dwell in the land and trade in it, for here the land is large enough for them. Let us take their daughters for
ourselves as wives, and let us give them our daughters.
34:22 惟有一件事我们必须作，他们才应允和我们同住，成为一样的人民，就是我们中间所有的男丁都受割礼，和他们一样。
Only on this condition will the men consent to us to dwell with us, to become one people: that every male among us be circumcised as they are circumcised.
34:23 他们的群畜、财物、和一切的牲口岂不都归我们么？只要依从他们，他们就与我们同住。
Will not their livestock and their property and all their animals be ours? Only let us consent to them, and they will dwell with us.
34:24 凡从城门出入的人，就都听从哈抹和他儿子示剑的话；于是凡从城门出入的男丁都受了割礼。
And all who went out of the gate of his city listened to Hamor and to Shechem his son; and every male was circumcised, all who went out of the gate of his city.
34:25 到第三天，众人正在疼痛的时候，雅各的两个儿子，就是底拿的哥哥西缅和利未，各拿刀剑，趁着众人想不到的时候，来到城中，把一切男丁都杀
了，
Then on the third day, when they were still in pain, two of Jacob's sons, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brothers, each took his sword and came upon the city unawares,
and slew every male.
34:26 又用刀杀了哈抹和他儿子示剑，把底拿从示剑家里带出来走了。
And they slew Hamor and Shechem his son with the edge of the sword, and they took Dinah out of Shechem's house and went away.
34:27 雅各的儿子们因为他们的姊妹受了玷污，就来到被杀的人那里，掳掠那城，
The sons of Jacob came upon the slain and plundered the city, because they had defiled their sister.
34:28 夺了他们的羊群、牛群和驴，并城里田间所有的；
They took their flocks and their herds and their donkeys and whatever was in the city and whatever was in the field;
34:29 又把他们的一切财产、小孩、妇女，并房屋中所有的，都掳掠去了。
And they took captive and plundered all their wealth and all their little ones and their wives, and even all that was in the houses.
34:30 雅各对西缅和利未说，你们连累我，使我在这地的居民中，就是在迦南人和比利洗人中，有了臭名。我的人丁既然稀少，他们必聚集来攻击我，我
和全家的人都必灭绝。
And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, You have brought trouble upon me by making me odious among the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites and the
Perizzites; and I am few in number, and they will gather themselves together against me and strike me; and I will be destroyed, I and my house.
34:31 他们说，他岂可待我们的姊妹如同妓女么？
And they said, Should he treat our sister like a harlot?
创世记 Genesis 第 35 章
35:1 神对雅各说，起来，上伯特利去，住在那里；要在那里筑一座坛给神，就是你逃避你哥哥以扫的时候向你显现的那位。
And God said to Jacob, Rise up, go up to Bethel, and dwell there; and make an altar there to the God who appeared to you when you fled from your brother Esau.
35:2 雅各就对他家中的人，并一切与他同在的人说，你们要除掉你们中间的外邦神像，也要自洁，更换衣裳。
Then Jacob said to his household and to all who were with him, Put away the foreign gods that are among you, and purify yourselves, and change your
garments.
35:3 我们要起来，上伯特利去，在那里我要筑一座坛给神，就是在我遭难的日子应允我的祷告，在我所行的路上与我同在的那位。
37
And let us rise up and go up to Bethel, that I may make an altar there to the God who answered me in the day of my distress and has been with me wherever I
have gone.
35:4 他们就把手中的一切外邦神像和耳朵上的环子，交给雅各；雅各把这些都藏在示剑附近的橡树底下。
So they gave Jacob all the foreign gods which were in their hand and the rings which were in their ears, and Jacob hid them under the oak that was near
Shechem.
35:5 当他们起行往前时，神使周围城邑的人都惊惧，就不追赶雅各的众子。
And as they journeyed, the terror of God was upon the cities that were around them, so they did not pursue the sons of Jacob.
35:6 于是雅各和一切与他同在的人，到了迦南地的路斯，就是伯特利。
And Jacob came to Luz (that is, Bethel), which is in the land of Canaan, he and all the people who were with him.
35:7 他在那里筑了一座坛，并且称那地方为伊勒伯特利，因为当他逃避他哥哥的时候，神在那里向他启示祂自己。
And he built an altar there and called the place El-bethel, because there God had revealed Himself to him when he fled from his brother.
35:8 利百加的乳母底波拉死了，就葬在伯特利下边的橡树底下；那棵树名叫亚伦巴古。
And Deborah, Rebekah's nurse, died, and she was buried below Bethel under the oak; so its name was called Allon-bacuth.
35:9 雅各从巴旦亚兰回来，神又向他显现，赐福与他，
And God appeared to Jacob again when he came from Paddan-aram and blessed him.
35:10 并且对他说，你的名原是雅各，从今以后不要再叫雅各，要叫以色列。这样，神就给他起名叫以色列。
And God said to him, Your name is Jacob; Your name shall no longer be called Jacob, But Israel shall be your name. Thus He called his name Israel.
35:11 神又对他说，我是全足的神；你要繁衍增多，将来有一国，有多民从你而生，又有君王从你腰中而出。
And God said to him, I am the All-sufficient God: Be fruitful and multiply; A nation and a company of nations shall come from you, And kings shall come forth
from your loins.
35:12 我所赐给亚伯拉罕和以撒的地，我要赐给你；我也要把这地赐给你的后裔。
And the land which I gave to Abraham and to Isaac, I will give to you; And I will give the land to your seed after you.
35:13 神就从祂与雅各说话的地方，离开他升上去了。
Then God went up from him in the place where He had spoken with him.
35:14 雅各便在神与他说话的地方立了一根石柱，在柱上浇了奠祭，并且浇上油。
And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where He had spoken with him, a pillar of stone; and he poured out a drink offering on it and poured oil on it.
35:15 雅各就给神与他说话的地方起名叫伯特利。
And Jacob called the name of the place where God had spoken with him Bethel.
35:16 他们从伯特利起行，离以法他还有一段路程，拉结临产甚是艰难。
And they journeyed from Bethel. And while there was still some distance to come to Ephrath, Rachel began to give birth; and she had hard labor.
35:17 正在艰难的时候，收生婆对她说，不要怕，你又要得一个儿子了。
And while she was in hardest labor, the midwife said to her, Do not be afraid, for now you have another son.
35:18 她将近于死，魂要离开的时候，就给她儿子起名叫便俄尼；他父亲却给他起名叫便雅悯。
And as her soul was departing (for she died), she called his name Ben-oni; but his father called him Benjamin.
35:19 拉结死了，葬在通往以法他的路旁；以法他就是伯利恒。
So Rachel died and was buried on the way to Ephrath (that is, Bethlehem).
35:20 雅各在她的坟上立了一个碑，就是拉结的墓碑，到今日还在。
And Jacob set up a pillar on her grave; that is the pillar of Rachel's grave, which is there to this day.
35:21 以色列起行前往，在以得台的那一边支搭帐棚。
And Israel journeyed and pitched his tent beyond the tower of Eder.
35:22 以色列住在那地的时候，流便去与他父亲的妾辟拉同寝，以色列也听见了。雅各共有十二个儿子。
And while Israel dwelt in that land, Reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father's concubine, and Israel heard of it. Now the sons of Jacob were twelve:
35:23 利亚所生的是雅各的长子流便，还有西缅、利未、犹大、以萨迦、西布伦。
The sons of Leah: Reuben, Jacob's firstborn, and Simeon and Levi and Judah and Issachar and Zebulun.
35:24 拉结所生的是约瑟、便雅悯。
The sons of Rachel: Joseph and Benjamin.
35:25 拉结的使女辟拉所生的是但、拿弗他利。
And the sons of Bilhah, Rachel's female servant: Dan and Naphtali.
35:26 利亚的使女悉帕所生的是迦得、亚设。这些是雅各在巴旦亚兰所生的儿子。
And the sons of Zilpah, Leah's female servant: Gad and Asher. These are the sons of Jacob, who were born to him in Paddan-aram.
35:27 雅各来到他父亲以撒那里，到了基列亚巴的幔利，乃是亚伯拉罕和以撒寄居的地方；基列亚巴就是希伯仑。
And Jacob came to Isaac his father at Mamre, at Kiriath-arba (that is, Hebron), where Abraham and Isaac had sojourned.
35:28 以撒共活了一百八十岁。
And the days of Isaac were a hundred and eighty years.
35:29 以撒年纪老迈，日子满足，气绝而死，归到他本民那里；他两个儿子以扫、雅各把他埋葬了。
And Isaac expired and died and was gathered to his people, an old man and full of days; and Esau and Jacob his sons buried him.
创世记 Genesis 第 36 章
36:1 以扫就是以东，他的后代记在下面：
Now these are the generations of Esau (that is, Edom).
36:2 以扫娶迦南的女子为妻，就是赫人以伦的女儿亚大，和希未人祭便的孙女，亚拿的女儿阿何利巴玛，
Esau took his wives from the daughters of Canaan: Adah the daughter of Elon the Hittite; and Oholibamah the daughter of Anah, the daughter of Zibeon the
Hivite;
36:3 又娶了以实玛利的女儿，尼拜约的妹妹巴实抹。
And Basemath Ishmael's daughter, the sister of Nebaioth.
38
36:4 亚大给以扫生了以利法；巴实抹生了流珥；
And Adah bore Eliphaz to Esau, and Basemath bore Reuel,
36:5 阿何利巴玛生了耶乌施、雅兰、可拉。这些都是以扫的儿子，是在迦南地生的。
And Oholibamah bore Jeush and Jalam and Korah. These are the sons of Esau, who were born to him in the land of Canaan.
36:6 以扫带着他的妻子、儿女、与家中一切的人口，并他的牛羊、牲畜、和一切财物，就是他在迦南地所得的，往别地去，离开了他的弟弟雅各。
And Esau took his wives and his sons and his daughters and all his household and his livestock and all his cattle and all his possessions which he had acquired
in the land of Canaan, and he went into a land away from his brother Jacob.
36:7 因为二人的家产甚多，使他们不能同住一起，他们的群畜太多，寄居的地容不下他们。
For their property was too great for them to dwell together, and the land where they sojourned could not sustain them because of their livestock.
36:8 于是以扫住在西珥山；以扫就是以东。
And Esau dwelt in Mount Seir; Esau is Edom.
36:9 以扫是西珥山以东人的始祖，他的后代记在下面。
And these are the generations of Esau the father of the Edomites in Mount Seir:
36:10 以扫众子的名字如下：以扫的妻子亚大生以利法；以扫的妻子巴实抹生流珥。
These are the names of Esau's sons: Eliphaz the son of Esau's wife Adah, Reuel the son of Esau's wife Basemath.
36:11 以利法的儿子是提幔、阿抹、洗玻、迦坦、基纳斯。
And the sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam and Kenaz.
36:12 亭纳是以扫儿子以利法的妾；她给以利法生了亚玛力。这些是以扫妻子亚大的子孙。
And Timna was a concubine to Eliphaz Esau's son, and she bore Amalek to Eliphaz. These are the sons of Esau's wife Adah.
36:13 流珥的儿子是拿哈、谢拉、沙玛、米撒。这些是以扫妻子巴实抹的子孙。
And these are the sons of Reuel: Nahath and Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah. These were the sons of Esau's wife Basemath.
36:14 以扫的妻子阿何利巴玛是祭便的孙女，亚拿的女儿；她给以扫生了耶乌施、雅兰、可拉。
And these were the sons of Oholibamah the daughter of Anah, the daughter of Zibeon, Esau's wife: And she bore to Esau Jeush and Jalam and Korah.
36:15 以扫子孙中的各族记在下面：以扫的长子以利法的子孙中，有提幔族、阿抹族、洗玻族、基纳斯族、
These are the clans of the sons of Esau. The sons of Eliphaz the firstborn of Esau: Clan Teman, Clan Omar, Clan Zepho, Clan Kenaz,
36:16 可拉族、迦坦族、亚玛力族。这些是在以东地从以利法所出的各族，都是亚大的子孙。
Clan Korah, Clan Gatam, Clan Amalek; these are the clans of Eliphaz in the land of Edom. These are the sons of Adah.
36:17 以扫的儿子流珥的子孙中，有拿哈族、谢拉族、沙玛族、米撒族。这些是在以东地从流珥所出的各族，都是以扫妻子巴实抹的子孙。
And these are the sons of Reuel, Esau's son: Clan Nahath, Clan Zerah, Clan Shammah, Clan Mizzah; these are the clans of Reuel in the land of Edom. These are
the sons of Basemath, Esau's wife.
36:18 以扫妻子阿何利巴玛的子孙中，有耶乌施族、雅兰族、可拉族。这些是从以扫的妻子，亚拿的女儿，阿何利巴玛所出的各族。
And these are the sons of Oholibamah, Esau's wife: Clan Jeush, Clan Jalam, Clan Korah. These are the clans of Oholibamah the daughter of Anah, Esau's wife.
36:19 以上的各族都是以扫的子孙；以扫就是以东。
These are the sons of Esau (that is, Edom), and these are their clans.
36:20 那地原有的居民，何利人西珥的子孙记在下面，就是罗坍、朔巴、祭便、亚拿、
These are the sons of Seir the Horite, the inhabitants of the land: Lotan and Shobal and Zibeon and Anah
36:21 底顺、以察、底珊。这些是从以东地西珥的子孙，何利人中所出的族长。
And Dishon and Ezer and Dishan; these are the clans of the Horites, the children of Seir in the land of Edom.
36:22 罗坍的儿子是何利、希幔；罗坍的妹妹是亭纳。
And the sons of Lotan were Hori and Heman; and Lotan's sister was Timna.
36:23 朔巴的儿子是亚勒文、玛拿辖、以巴录、示玻、阿南。
And these are the sons of Shobal: Alvan and Manahath and Ebal, Shepho and Onam.
36:24 祭便的儿子是亚雅、亚拿。当时在旷野放他父亲祭便的驴，发现温泉的，就是这亚拿。
And these are the sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah. This is the Anah who found the hot springs in the wilderness as he fed the donkeys of Zibeon his father.
36:25 亚拿的儿子是底顺；亚拿的女儿是阿何利巴玛。
And these are the children of Anah: Dishon and Oholibamah the daughter of Anah.
36:26 底顺的儿子是欣但、伊是班、益兰、基兰。
And these are the sons of Dishon: Hemdan and Eshban and Ithran and Cheran.
36:27 以察的儿子是辟罕、撒番、亚干。
These are the sons of Ezer: Bilhan and Zaavan and Akan.
36:28 底珊的儿子是乌斯、亚兰。
These are the sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.
36:29 从何利人所出的各族记在下面，就是罗坍族、朔巴族、祭便族、亚拿族、
These are the clans of the Horites: Clan Lotan, Clan Shobal, Clan Zibeon, Clan Anah,
36:30 底顺族、以察族、底珊族。这些是从何利人所出的各族，都在西珥地，各按各族。
Clan Dishon, Clan Ezer, Clan Dishan. These are the clans of the Horites, according to their clans in the land of Seir.
36:31 以色列人未有君王治理以前，在以东地作王的记在下面。
And these are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before a king of the children of Israel reigned:
36:32 比珥的儿子比拉在以东作王，他的京城名叫亭哈巴。
Now Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom, and the name of his city was Dinhabah.
36:33 比拉死了，波斯拉人谢拉的儿子约巴接续他作王。
And Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his place.
36:34 约巴死了，提幔地的人户珊接续他作王。
And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his place.
36:35 户珊死了，比达的儿子哈达接续他作王；这哈达就是在摩押田野击杀米甸人的，他的京城名叫亚未得。
And Husham died; and Hadad the son of Bedad, who struck Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his place; and the name of his city was Avith.
39
36:36 哈达死了，玛士利加人桑拉接续他作王。
And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his place.
36:37 桑拉死了，大河边的利河伯人扫罗接续他作王。
And Samlah died, and Shaul of Rehoboth by the River reigned in his place.
36:38 扫罗死了，亚革波的儿子巴勒哈南接续他作王。
And Shaul died, and Baal-hanan the son of Achbor reigned in his place.
36:39 亚革波的儿子巴勒哈南死了，哈达接续他作王，他的京城名叫巴乌；他的妻子名叫米希他别，是米萨合的孙女，玛特列的女儿。
And Baal-hanan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar reigned in his place. And the name of his city was Pau; and his wife's name was Mehetabel the daughter of
Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
36:40 从以扫所出的各族，按着他们的家族、地方，名字记在下面，就是亭纳族、亚勒瓦族、耶帖族、
And these are the names of the clans of Esau, according to their families, according to their places, by their names: Clan Timna, Clan Alvah, Clan Jetheth,
36:41 阿何利巴玛族、以拉族、比嫩族、
Clan Oholibamah, Clan Elah, Clan Pinon,
36:42 基纳斯族、提幔族、米比萨族、
Clan Kenaz, Clan Teman, Clan Mibzar,
36:43 玛基叠族、以兰族。这些是以东人在所得为业的地上，按着他们住处的各族。以东人的始祖就是以扫。
Clan Magdiel, Clan Iram. These are the clans of Edom according to their habitations in the land of their possession. This is Esau the father of the Edomites.
创世记 Genesis 第 37 章
37:1 雅各住在迦南地，就是他父亲寄居的地。
And Jacob dwelt in the land where his father had sojourned, in the land of Canaan.
37:2 雅各的记略如下。约瑟十七岁时与他哥哥们一同牧羊。他是个少年人，与他父亲的妻辟拉、悉帕的儿子们常在一处。约瑟将他哥哥们的恶行报给他们
的父亲。
These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, when he was seventeen years old, was shepherding the flock with his brothers while he was still a youth, with the
sons of Bilhah and with the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives. And Joseph brought an evil report of them to their father.
37:3 以色列原来爱约瑟过于爱他的众子，因为约瑟是他年老生的；他给约瑟作了一件彩衣。
Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his sons, because he was the son of his old age; and he had made him a coat of many colors.
37:4 约瑟的哥哥们见父亲爱约瑟过于爱他们，就恨约瑟，不与他说和睦的话。
And when his brothers saw that their father loved him more than all his brothers, they hated him and could not speak peaceably to him.
37:5 约瑟作了一个梦，把这梦告诉他哥哥们，他们就越发恨他。
Then Joseph had a dream; and when he told it to his brothers, they hated him even more.
37:6 约瑟对他们说，请听我所作的这梦：
And he said to them, Listen to this dream which I have had:
37:7 我们在田里捆禾稼，忽然间我的禾捆起来站着，你们的禾捆来围着我的禾捆下拜。
There we were, binding sheaves in the field, when suddenly my sheaf rose up and remained standing; and then your sheaves gathered around and bowed
down to my sheaf.
37:8 他的哥哥们对他说，难道你真要作我们的王，真要管辖我们么？他们就因为他的梦和他的话越发恨他。
And his brothers said to him, Will you indeed reign over us and actually be a ruler among us? So they hated him even more for his dreams and for his words.
37:9 后来他又作了一个梦，也把这梦告诉他的哥哥们说，看哪，我又作了一个梦，梦见太阳、月亮与十一颗星，向我下拜。
And he had still another dream and told it to his brothers and said, Now I have had another dream: There were the sun and the moon and eleven stars, bowing
down to me.
37:10 约瑟将这梦告诉他父亲和他哥哥们，他父亲就责备他说，你作的这是什么梦！难道我和你母亲、你弟兄，果然要来俯伏在地，向你下拜么？
And he told it to his father and to his brothers; and his father rebuked him and said to him, What is this dream that you have had? Shall I and your mother and
your brothers indeed come to bow down to the ground to you?
37:11 他哥哥们都嫉妒他，他父亲却把这话存在心里。
And his brothers were jealous of him, but his father kept the saying in his heart.
37:12 约瑟的哥哥们往示剑去放他们父亲的羊。
Then his brothers went to shepherd their father's flock in Shechem.
37:13 以色列对约瑟说，你哥哥们不是正在示剑放羊么？你来，我要打发你往他们那里去。约瑟说，我在这里。
And Israel said to Joseph, Your brothers are now shepherding the flock in Shechem. Come, and I will send you to them. And he said to him, Here I am.
37:14 以色列说，你去看看你哥哥们平安不平安，群羊平安不平安，就回来报信给我；于是打发他出希伯仑谷，他就往示剑去了。
And he said to him, Go now, see if it is well with your brothers and well with the flock, and bring word back to me. So he sent him from the valley of Hebron, and
he came to Shechem.
37:15 有人遇见他在田野走迷了路，就问他说，你找什么？
And a man found him; and there he was, wandering in the field, and the man asked him, saying, What are you seeking?
37:16 他说，我找我的哥哥们；求你告诉我，他们在那里放羊。
And he said, I am seeking my brothers. Please tell me where they are shepherding the flock.
37:17 那人说，他们已经离开这里走了，我听见他们说要往多坍去。约瑟就去追赶他哥哥们，在多坍找到他们。
And the man said, They have moved on from here; for I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brothers and found them in Dothan.
37:18 他们远远的看见他，趁他还没有走到跟前，大家就同谋要害死他，
And when they saw him from a distance and before he came near to them, they conspired against him to put him to death.
37:19 彼此说，你看，那作梦的来了。
And they said one to another, Here comes this master of dreams.
37:20 来罢，我们将他杀了，丢在一个坑里，就说有恶兽把他吃了；我们且看他的梦将来怎么样。
40
Now then, come and let us slay him and throw him into one of the pits; and we will say, A wild beast has devoured him; then we will see what will become of his
dreams.
37:21 流便听见了，要救他脱离他们的手，就说，我们不可害他的性命；
But when Reuben heard it, he tried to deliver him out of their hand and said, Let us not take his life.
37:22 又说，不可流他的血；可以把他丢在这野地的坑里，只是不可下手害他。流便的意思是要救他脱离他们的手，把他归还他的父亲。
And Reuben said to them, Shed no blood; throw him into this pit that is in the wilderness, but do not lay a hand on him-that he might deliver him out of their
hand to restore him to his father.
37:23 约瑟到了他哥哥们那里，他们就剥了他的外衣，就是他穿的那件彩衣，
And when Joseph came to his brothers, they stripped Joseph of his coat, the coat of many colors that was on him;
37:24 把他丢在坑里；那坑是空的，里头没有水。
And they took him and threw him into the pit. Now the pit was empty; there was no water in it.
37:25 于是他们坐下吃饭；他们举目观看，见有一伙米甸的以实玛利人从基列来，用骆驼驮着香胶、香油、没药，要带下埃及去。
Then they sat down to eat food; and they lifted up their eyes and looked, and there was a caravan of Ishmaelites, coming from Gilead, with their camels bearing
aromatic gum and balm and myrrh, going to carry it down to Egypt.
37:26 犹大对众弟兄说，我们杀我们的弟弟，藏了他的血，有什么益处呢？
Then Judah said to his brothers, What gain is there if we slay our brother and conceal his blood?
37:27 我们不如将他卖给以实玛利人，不可下手害他；因为他是我们的弟弟，我们的骨肉。众弟兄就听从了他。
Come, and let us sell him to the Ishmaelites, and let our hand not be on him; for he is our brother, our flesh. And his brothers listened to him.
37:28 所以当米甸的商人从那里经过，约瑟的哥哥们就把约瑟从坑里拉上来，讲定二十锭银子，把约瑟卖给以实玛利人。他们就把约瑟带到埃及去了。
So when some Midianite traders passed by, they pulled Joseph up, lifting him out of the pit, and they sold Joseph to the Ishmaelites for twenty pieces of silver.
And these brought Joseph into Egypt.
37:29 流便回到坑边，见约瑟不在坑里，就撕裂衣服，
And when Reuben returned to the pit and saw that Joseph was not in the pit, he tore his clothes.
37:30 回到弟弟们那里，说，童子没有了，我怎么办？
And he returned to his brothers and said, The boy is not there; so as for me, what shall I do?
37:31 他们宰了一只公山羊，把约瑟的外衣蘸了血。
Then they took Joseph's coat and slaughtered a male goat and dipped the coat in the blood.
37:32 他们打发人把那件彩衣送到他们父亲那里，说，我们捡到了这个；请认一认是你儿子的外衣不是？
And they sent the coat of many colors and had it brought to their father and said, We found this; please examine it, and see if it is your son's coat or not.
37:33 他认得，就说，这是我儿子的外衣。有恶兽把他吃了，约瑟必定被撕碎了！
And he recognized it and said, It is my son's coat. A wild beast has devoured him; Joseph is without doubt torn to pieces.
37:34 雅各便撕裂衣服，腰间围上麻布，为他儿子悲哀了许多日子。
And Jacob tore his garments and put sackcloth upon his loins and mourned for his son many days.
37:35 他的儿子女儿都起来安慰他，他却不肯受安慰，说，我必悲悲哀哀的下阴间，到我儿子那里。约瑟的父亲就为他哀哭。
And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him; but he refused to be comforted and said, Surely I will go down to Sheol to my son, mourning. Thus
his father wept for him.
37:36 米甸人在埃及把约瑟卖给法老的内臣，护卫长波提乏。
Meanwhile the Midianites had sold him in Egypt to Potiphar, an official of Pharaoh, the captain of the guard.
创世记 Genesis 第 38 章
38:1 那时，犹大离开他弟兄们下去，到一个名叫希拉的亚杜兰人那里去。
Now at that time Judah went down from his brothers and pitched his tent near a certain Adullamite, whose name was Hirah.
38:2 犹大在那里看见一个迦南人名叫书亚的女儿，就娶她为妻，与她同房。
And Judah saw there the daughter of a certain Canaanite whose name was Shua. And he took her and went in to her.
38:3 她就怀孕生了一个儿子，犹大给他起名叫珥。
And she conceived and bore a son, and he called his name Er.
38:4 她再怀孕生了一个儿子，给他起名叫俄南。
And she conceived again and bore a son, and she called his name Onan.
38:5 她又生了一个儿子，给他起名叫示拉。她生示拉的时候，犹大正在基悉。
And yet again she bore a son and called his name Shelah, and she was in Chezib when she bore him.
38:6 犹大为长子珥娶妻，名叫他玛。
And Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn, and her name was Tamar.
38:7 犹大的长子珥在耶和华眼中看为恶，耶和华就叫他死了。
And Er, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of Jehovah. And Jehovah put him to death.
38:8 犹大对俄南说，你当与你哥哥的妻子同房，向她尽你为弟的本分，为你哥哥生子立后。
And Judah said to Onan, Go in to your brother's wife, and perform the duty of a brother-in-law to her, and raise up seed to your brother.
38:9 但俄南知道生子不归自己，所以每当同房便遗在地，免得给他哥哥留后。
But since Onan knew that the seed would not be his, whenever he went in to his brother's wife, he spilled it on the ground, so that he would not give seed to his
brother.
38:10 他所作的在耶和华眼中看为恶，耶和华也叫他死了。
But what he did was evil in the sight of Jehovah, so He put him to death also.
38:11 犹大心里说，恐怕示拉也死，像他两个哥哥一样，就对他儿媳他玛说，你去，在你父亲家里守寡，等我儿子示拉长大。他玛就回去，住在她父亲家
里。
Then Judah said to Tamar his daughter-in-law, Remain a widow in your father's house until Shelah my son grows up. For he thought, He also may die, like his
brothers. So Tamar went and dwelt in her father's house.
41
38:12 过了许久，犹大的妻子，书亚的女儿死了。后来犹大得了安慰，就和他的朋友亚杜兰人希拉上亭拿去，到他剪羊毛的人那里。
And in process of time Shua's daughter, the wife of Judah, died; and Judah was comforted and went up to his sheepshearers at Timnah, he and his friend Hirah
the Adullamite.
38:13 有人告诉他玛说，你的公公上亭拿剪羊毛去了。
And it was told to Tamar, saying, Your father-in-law is now going up to Timnah to shear his sheep.
38:14 他玛见示拉已经长大，还没有娶她为妻，就脱了她作寡妇的衣裳，用帕子蒙着脸，又遮住身体，坐在往亭拿路上的伊拿印城门口。
And she removed from herself her widow's garments and covered herself with a veil and wrapped herself and sat in the gate of Enaim, which is on the way to
Timnah; for she saw that Shelah had grown up, and she had not been given to him as his wife.
38:15 犹大看见她，以为是妓女，因为她蒙着脸。
And when Judah saw her, he thought she was a harlot, for she had covered her face.
38:16 犹大就转到她那里去，说，来罢，让我与你同寝。他原不知道是他的儿媳。他玛说，你要与我同寝，把什么给我呢？
And he turned aside to her by the way and said, Come now, let me come in to you; for he did not know that she was his daughter-in-law. And she said, What
will you give me, that you may come in to me?
38:17 犹大说，我从羊群里取一只山羊羔，打发人送来给你。他玛说，在未送以先，你要给我一个抵押才行。
And he said, I will send you a kid from the flock. And she said, Only if you give me a pledge until you send it.
38:18 他说，我给你什么作抵押呢？他玛说，你的印、你的带子、和你手里的杖。犹大就给了她，与她同寝，她就从犹大怀了孕。
And he said, What pledge shall I give you? And she said, Your seal and your cord and your staff that is in your hand. And he gave them to her and went in to her,
and she conceived by him.
38:19 他玛起来走了，除去帕子，仍旧穿上作寡妇的衣裳。
And she arose and went away, and removed her veil from herself and put on her widow's garments.
38:20 犹大托他朋友亚杜兰人送一只山羊羔去，要从那女人手里取回抵押，却找不着她，
And Judah sent the kid by the hand of his friend the Adullamite, to receive the pledge from the woman's hand; but he did not find her.
38:21 就问那地方的人说，伊拿印路旁的妓女在那里？他们说，这里从来没有妓女。
Then he asked the men of her place, saying, Where is the prostitute who was by the road at Enaim? And they said, There has been no prostitute here.
38:22 他回去见犹大说，我没有找着她，并且那地方的人说，这里从来没有妓女。
And he returned to Judah and said, I did not find her; and also the men of the place said, There has been no prostitute here.
38:23 犹大说，我把这山羊羔送去了，你竟找不着她。任凭她留着那些东西罢，免得我们成了笑柄。
And Judah said, Let her keep the things for herself, lest we become a laughing stock; you see, I sent her this kid, but you did not find her.
38:24 约过了三个月，有人告诉犹大说，你的儿媳他玛作了妓女，且因行淫有了身孕。犹大说，拉出她来，把她烧了！
And about three months later it was told Judah, saying, Tamar your daughter-in-law has played the harlot; moreover, now she is pregnant by harlotry. And
Judah said, Bring her out, and let her be burned.
38:25 他玛被拉出来的时候，打发人去见她公公，对他说，这些东西是谁的，我就是从谁怀的孕。请你认一认，这印和带子并杖都是谁的？
As she was being brought out, she sent word to her father-in-law, saying, I am pregnant by the man to whom these belong. And she said, Please note whose
these are, the seal and the cords and the staff.
38:26 犹大认出这些东西，就说，她比我更有义，因为我没有将她给我的儿子示拉。从此犹大不再与她同寝了。
And Judah took note of them and said, She is more righteous than I, because I did not give her to my son Shelah. And he did not know her again anymore.
38:27 他玛将要生产，不料她腹里是孪生子。
And at the time of her delivery, there were twins in her womb.
38:28 到生产的时候，一个孩子伸出一只手来；收生婆拿一条朱红线拴在他手上，说，这一个是先生出来的。
And while she was giving birth, one put out a hand; and the midwife took and tied on his hand a scarlet thread, saying, This one came out first.
38:29 随后这孩子把手收回去，他哥哥生出来了；收生婆说，你为什么抢着来呢？因此他名叫法勒斯。
But when he drew back his hand, his brother suddenly came out; and she said, What a breach you have made for yourself! Therefore his name was called Perez.
38:30 后来，他那手上有朱红线的弟弟也生出来，他就名叫谢拉。
And afterward his brother came out, who had the scarlet thread on his hand; and his name was called Zerah.
创世记 Genesis 第 39 章
39:1 约瑟被带下埃及去。有一个埃及人，法老的内臣，护卫长波提乏，从那些带他下来的以实玛利人手下把他买去。
Now Joseph was brought down to Egypt; and Potiphar, an official of Pharaoh, the captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him from the Ishmaelites who had
brought him down there.
39:2 约瑟住在他主人埃及人的家中，耶和华与他同在，他就凡事亨通。
And Jehovah was with Joseph, and he became a prosperous man; and he was in the house of his Egyptian master.
39:3 他主人见耶和华与他同在，又见耶和华使他手里所办的尽都顺利，
And his master saw that Jehovah was with him and that Jehovah caused all that he did to prosper in his hand.
39:4 约瑟就在主人眼前蒙恩，伺候他主人；主人派他管理家务，把一切所有的都交在他手里。
And Joseph found favor in his sight, and he ministered to him; and he made him overseer of his house and put all that he hadin his charge.
39:5 自从主人派约瑟管理家务和他一切所有的，耶和华就因约瑟的缘故赐福与那埃及人的家；他家里和田间一切所有的，都蒙耶和华赐福。
And from the time he made him overseer in his house and put him over all that he had, Jehovah blessed the Egyptian's house on account of Joseph; and the
blessing of Jehovah was upon all that he had, in the house and in the field.
39:6 波提乏将一切所有的都交在约瑟的手中，除了自己所吃的饭，别的事一概不管。约瑟原来形貌俊美。
And he left all that he had in Joseph's charge; and with him there, he was not concerned about anything except the food that he ate. And Joseph was handsome
in form and handsome in appearance.
39:7 这事以后，约瑟主人的妻子以目送情给约瑟，说，你与我同寝罢。
Now after these things his master's wife cast her eyes upon Joseph and said, Lie with me.
39:8 约瑟不肯，对他主人的妻子说，看哪，有我在，家里一切事务我主人都不管；他把所有的都交在我手里。
42
But he refused and said to his master's wife, Behold, with me here, my master is not concerned about anything in the house, and he has put everything he has in
my charge.
39:9 在这家里没有比我大的；并且他没有留下一样不交给我，只留下了你，因为你是他的妻子。我怎能作这大恶，得罪神呢？
There is no one greater in this house than I, and he has withheld nothing from me except you, because you are his wife. How then can I do this great evil, and sin
against God?
39:10 后来她天天对约瑟说，约瑟却不听从，不与她同寝，也不和她在一处。
And although she spoke to Joseph day after day, he would not listen to her to lie beside her or be with her.
39:11 有一天，约瑟进屋里去办事，家中的人没有一个在屋里，
And one such day he went into the house to do his work, and none of the men of the house were there in the house.
39:12 妇人就拉住他的衣裳，说，你与我同寝罢。约瑟把衣裳撇在妇人手里，跑到外面去了。
And she grabbed him by his garment, saying, Lie with me! But he left his garment in her hand, and fled and went outside.
39:13 妇人看见约瑟把衣裳撇在她手里跑出去了，
And when she saw that he had left his garment in her hand and had fled outside,
39:14 就叫了家里的人来，对他们说，你们看，他带了一个希伯来人到我们这里，要戏弄我们。他到我这里来，要与我同寝，我就大声喊叫。
She called to the men of her house and spoke to them, saying, See, he has brought in a Hebrew man to us to mock us. He came in to me to lie with me, and I
called out with a loud voice;
39:15 他听见我放声喊起来，就把衣裳撇在我身边，跑到外面去了。
And when he heard that I lifted up my voice and called out, he left his garment beside me, and fled and went outside.
39:16 妇人把约瑟的衣裳放在自己身边，等着他主人回家，
And she placed his garment beside her until his master came home.
39:17 就对他如此说：你所带到我们这里的那希伯来仆人，进来要戏弄我，
And she spoke to him with these words, saying, The Hebrew servant, whom you have brought to us, came in to me to mock me.
39:18 我放声喊起来，他就把衣裳撇在我身边，跑出去了。
And when I lifted up my voice and called out, he left his garment beside me and fled outside.
39:19 约瑟的主人听见他妻子对他所说的话，说，你的仆人如此待我，他就发怒，
And when his master heard the words of his wife that she had spoken to him, saying, This is the way your servant treated me; his anger burned.
39:20 把约瑟拿住，下在监里，就是王的囚犯被囚的地方。但是当约瑟在监里的时候，
And Joseph's master took him and put him into the prison, the place where the king's prisoners were confined. But while he was there in the prison,
39:21 耶和华与约瑟同在，向他施恩慈，使他在狱长眼前蒙恩。
Jehovah was with Joseph; and He extended kindness to him and gave him favor in the sight of the chief jailer.
39:22 狱长把监里所有的囚犯都交在约瑟手下；他们在那里无论作什么事，都是经他的手作的。
And the chief jailer put in Joseph's charge all the prisoners who were in the prison; and whatever was done there, he was the one to do it.
39:23 凡在约瑟手下的事，狱长一概不察，因为耶和华与约瑟同在；耶和华使他所作的尽都顺利。
The chief jailer did not supervise anything that was in his charge, because Jehovah was with him; and whatever he did, Jehovah caused it to prosper.
创世记 Genesis 第 40 章
40:1 这些事以后，埃及王的司酒和司膳得罪了他们的主埃及王，
And after these things, the cupbearer and the baker of the king of Egypt offended their lord, the king of Egypt.
40:2 法老就恼怒司酒长和司膳长这两个内臣，
And Pharaoh was angry with his two officials, the chief of the cupbearers and the chief of the bakers.
40:3 把他们拘禁在护卫长府内的监里，就是约瑟被囚的地方。
And he put them in custody at the house of the captain of the guard, in the prison, the place where Joseph was confined.
40:4 护卫长把他们交给约瑟，约瑟便伺候他们；他们被拘禁了一些日子。
And the captain of the guard put Joseph in charge of them, and he ministered to them; and they were in custody for some time.
40:5 被囚在监之埃及王的司酒和司膳，二人同夜各作了一个梦，各梦都有讲解。
And the cupbearer and the baker of the king of Egypt, who were confined in the prison, both of them had a dream, each man with his own dream in one night,
and each dream with its own interpretation.
40:6 到了早晨，约瑟到他们那里，见他们甚是愁闷。
And Joseph came to them in the morning and looked at them, and they were troubled.
40:7 他便问法老的两个内臣，就是与他同被拘禁在他主人府里的，说，你们今日为什么面带愁容？
And he asked Pharaoh's officials, who were with him in custody in his master's house, saying, Why are your faces so sad today?
40:8 他们对他说，我们各人作了一个梦，没有人能解。约瑟说，解梦不是神的事么？请你们将梦告诉我。
And they said to him, We have had a dream, and there is no one to interpret it. And Joseph said to them, Do not interpretations belong to God? Please tell it to
me.
40:9 司酒长便将他的梦告诉约瑟，说，我梦见在我面前有一棵葡萄树，
And the chief of the cupbearers told his dream to Joseph and said to him, In my dream there was a vine before me,
40:10 树上有三根枝子，一发了芽，就开花，并且上头一挂一挂的葡萄都成熟了。
And on the vine were three branches. And as soon as it budded, its blossoms came out, and its clusters ripened into grapes.
40:11 法老的杯在我手中，我就拿葡萄挤在法老的杯里，将杯递在他手中。
And Pharaoh's cup was in my hand, and I took the grapes and squeezed them into Pharaoh's cup, and I put the cup in Pharaoh's hand.
40:12 约瑟对他说，这梦的讲解是这样：三根枝子就是三天；
And Joseph said to him, This is its interpretation: The three branches are three days.
40:13 三天之内，法老必提你出监，叫你恢复原职，你就要照先前作司酒时的惯例，递杯在法老的手中。
Within three more days Pharaoh will lift up your head and restore you to your office, and you will put Pharaoh's cup into his hand according to your former custom
when you were his cupbearer.
43
40:14 但你得好处的时候，求你记得我，施恩慈与我，向法老题说我，救我出这府牢。
But remember my being with you when it is well with you, and please do me a kindness and make mention of me to Pharaoh and so have me brought out of this
house.
40:15 我实在是从希伯来人之地被拐来的；我在这里也没有作过什么，叫他们把我下在牢里。
For I was actually kidnapped out of the land of the Hebrews, and here also I have not done anything that they should put me into the dungeon.
40:16 司膳长见梦解得好，就对约瑟说，我也作了一个梦，见我头上顶着三筐白饼；
Now when the chief of the bakers saw that the interpretation was good, he said to Joseph, I also saw this in my dream: There were three baskets of white bread
on my head.
40:17 最上面的筐子里有为法老烤的各样食物，但是有飞鸟来吃我头上筐子里的食物。
And in the uppermost basket there were all sorts of baked food for Pharaoh, but the birds were eating them out of the basket on my head.
40:18 约瑟回答说，这梦的讲解是这样：三个筐子就是三天；
And Joseph answered and said, This is its interpretation: The three baskets are three days.
40:19 三天之内，法老必斩你的头，把你挂在木头上，必有飞鸟来吃你身上的肉。
Within three more days Pharaoh will lift up your head from you and will hang you on a tree, and the birds will eat your flesh from you.
40:20 到了第三天，是法老的生日，他为众臣仆设摆筵席，把司酒长和司膳长提出监来，
And on the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday, he made a feast for all his servants; and he lifted up the head of the chief of the cupbearers and the head of
the chief of the bakers among his servants.
40:21 使司酒长恢复司酒的职位，他就递杯在法老手中；
And he restored the chief of the cupbearers to his cupbearing, and he put the cup into Pharaoh's hand;
40:22 却把司膳长挂起来，正如约瑟向他们所讲解的。
But the chief of the bakers he hanged, just as Joseph had interpreted to them.
40:23 司酒长却不记得约瑟，竟把他忘了。
Yet the chief of the cupbearers did not remember Joseph, but forgot him.
创世记 Genesis 第 41 章
41:1 过了整整两年，法老作了一个梦，见自己站在河边，
And at the end of two full years Pharaoh had a dream, and there he was, standing by the River.
41:2 有七只母牛从河里上来，又美好又肥壮，在芦苇中吃草。
And there came up out of the River seven cows, fine looking and fat fleshed; and they grazed in the reed grass.
41:3 随后又有七只母牛从河里上来，又丑陋又干瘦，站在河岸上那七只母牛的旁边。
Then there came up after them seven other cows out of the River, ugly looking and thin fleshed; and they stood beside the other cows on the bank of the River.
41:4 这些又丑陋又干瘦的母牛，吃尽了那七只又美好又肥壮的母牛；法老就醒了。
And the ugly looking and thin fleshed cows ate up the seven fine looking and fat cows. Then Pharaoh awoke.
41:5 他又睡着，第二次作梦，见一棵麦子长了七个穗子，又肥大又佳美，
And he slept and dreamed a second time. And there were seven ears of grain, coming up on one stalk, fat and good.
41:6 随后又长了七个穗子，又细弱，又被东风吹焦了。
Then there were seven ears, thin and scorched by the east wind, that sprouted after them.
41:7 这些细弱的穗子，吞下了那七个又肥大又饱满的穗子；法老醒了，原来是个梦。
And the thin ears swallowed up the seven fat and full ears. Then Pharaoh awoke, and it was a dream.
41:8 到了早晨，法老灵里不安，就差人召了埃及所有的术士和智慧人来；法老把所作的梦告诉他们，却没有人能给法老讲解。
And in the morning his spirit was troubled, so he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt and all her wise men; and Pharaoh told them his dream, but there
was no one who could interpret them to Pharaoh.
41:9 那时司酒长对法老说，我今日想起我的罪来。
Then the chief cupbearer spoke to Pharaoh, saying, I do remember my sins today.
41:10 从前法老恼怒臣仆，把我和司膳长拘禁在护卫长府内。
Pharaoh was angry with his servants, and he put me in custody at the house of the captain of the guard, both me and the chief baker.
41:11 我们二人同夜各作了一个梦，各梦都有讲解。
And we both had a dream in one night, I and he; each of us had a dream with its own interpretation.
41:12 在那里同着我们有一个希伯来的少年人，是护卫长的仆人，我们将梦告诉他，他就给我们讲解，是按着各人的梦讲解的。
And a young Hebrew man was there with us, a servant of the captain of the guard. And we told him our dreams, and he interpreted them for us; to each one he
interpreted according to his dream.
41:13 后来正如他给我们讲解的成就了；法老使我官复原职，却把司膳长挂了起来。
And as he interpreted to us, so it happened; Pharaoh restored me to my office, and he hanged the baker.
41:14 于是法老差人去召约瑟，他们便急忙带他出牢，他就剃头刮脸，换衣裳，进到法老面前。
Then Pharaoh sent and called for Joseph, and they brought him hastily out of the dungeon; and he had shaved himself and changed his garments, and he came
to Pharaoh.
41:15 法老对约瑟说，我作了一个梦，没有人能解；我听见人说，你听了梦就能解。
And Pharaoh said to Joseph, I have had a dream, but there is no one who can interpret it; and I have heard it said of you that when you hear a dream you can
interpret it.
41:16 约瑟回答法老说，这不在于我，神必将平安的话回答法老。
And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not of me; God will give Pharaoh a favorable answer.
41:17 法老对约瑟说，我梦见我站在河岸上，
And Pharaoh spoke to Joseph, In my dream, there I was, standing on the bank of the River.
41:18 有七只母牛从河里上来，又肥壮又美好，在芦苇中吃草。
And there came up out of the River seven cows, fat fleshed and fine looking; and they grazed in the reed grass.
44
41:19 随后又有七只母牛上来，又软弱又丑陋又干瘦，在埃及遍地，我没有见过这样不好的。
Then there came up after them seven other cows, poor and very ugly looking and thin fleshed; I had never seen such in all the land of Egypt for ugliness.
41:20 这些又干瘦又丑陋的母牛，吃尽了那以先的七只肥母牛，
And the thin and ugly looking cows ate up the first seven fat cows.
41:21 吞吃了以后，却看不出是吞吃了，它们丑陋的样子仍和先前一样；我就醒了。
And when they had swallowed them, no one would have known that they had swallowed them, for they were still as ugly looking as at the beginning. Then I
awoke.
41:22 我又梦见一棵麦子，长了七个穗子，又饱满又佳美；
And I saw this in my next dream: There were seven ears of grain, coming up on one stalk, full and good.
41:23 随后又长了七个穗子，枯槁细弱，被东风吹焦了。
Then there were seven ears, withered, thin, and scorched by the east wind, that sprouted after them.
41:24 这些细弱的穗子，吞下了那七个佳美的穗子。我将这梦告诉了术士，却没有人能给我解说。
And the thin ears swallowed up the seven good ears. And I told it to the magicians, but there was no one who could explain it to me.
41:25 约瑟对法老说，法老的梦乃是一个；神已将祂要作的事指示法老了。
Then Joseph said to Pharaoh, Pharaoh's dream is one dream; what God is about to do He has told Pharaoh.
41:26 七只好母牛是七年，七个好穗子也是七年；这梦乃是一个。
The seven good cows are seven years, and the seven good ears are seven years; the dream is one.
41:27 那随后上来的七只又干瘦又丑陋的母牛是七年，那七个中空、被东风吹焦的穗子也是七年，都是七个荒年。
And the seven thin and ugly looking cows that came up after them are seven years, and so are the seven empty ears scorched by the east wind; they will be
seven years of famine.
41:28 这就是我对法老所说，神已将祂要作的事显明给法老了。
This matter is just as I have spoken to Pharaoh; what God is about to do He has shown to Pharaoh.
41:29 埃及遍地必来七个大丰年；
Seven years of great abundance are now about to come throughout all the land of Egypt.
41:30 随后又来七个荒年，甚至埃及地都忘了先前的丰收，这地必被饥荒所耗尽。
Then seven years of famine will arise after them, and all the abundance in the land of Egypt will be forgotten, and the famine will consume the land.
41:31 因那后来的饥荒极重，这地便不觉得先前的丰收了。
And the abundance will be unknown in the land because of that famine which follows, for it will be very severe.
41:32 至于法老两次重复作梦，是因这事乃神所命定，而且神必速速成就。
And as for the repeating of the dream to Pharaoh twice, it means that the matter is determined by God, and God will quickly bring it about.
41:33 所以法老当拣选一个精明、智慧的人，派他治理埃及地。
Now therefore let Pharaoh look out for a discerning and wise man, and set him over the land of Egypt.
41:34 法老当这样行：派官员管理这地，在七个丰年的时候，征收埃及地出产的五分之一；
Let Pharaoh take action to appoint overseers over the land and take a fifth of the produce of the land of Egypt in the seven years of abundance.
41:35 叫他们把将来好年一切的粮食聚敛起来，积蓄谷物，收存在各城里作粮食，归于法老的手下。
And let them gather all the food of these coming good years and lay up grain under Pharaoh's authority for food in the cities, and let them keep it.
41:36 所储存的粮食，可以防备埃及地将有的七个荒年，免得这地被饥荒所灭。
And let the food become a reserve for the land against the seven years of famine that will be in the land of Egypt, so that the land does not perish in the famine.
41:37 法老和他的众臣仆，都以这话为美。
And the word seemed good to Pharaoh and to all his servants.
41:38 法老对臣仆说，像这样的人，有神的灵在他里面，我们岂能找得着呢？
And Pharaoh said to his servants, Can we find such a man like this, in whom the Spirit of God is?
41:39 法老对约瑟说，神既将这事都指示你，可见没有人像你这样精明、智慧。
And Pharaoh said to Joseph, Since God let you know all this, there is no one as discerning and wise as you.
41:40 你必掌管我的家，我的民都必照你的话受管理；惟独在宝座上我比你大。
You shall be over my household, and according to your word all my people shall be ruled; only in the throne will I be greater than you.
41:41 法老又对约瑟说，看哪，我派你治理埃及全地。
Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, See, I have set you over all the land of Egypt.
41:42 法老就摘下手上打印的戒指，戴在约瑟的手上，给他穿上细麻衣，把金链戴在他的颈项上；
And Pharaoh took off his signet ring from his hand and put it upon Joseph's hand, and clothed him in garments of fine linen, and put a gold chain around his
neck.
41:43 又叫约瑟坐他的副车，喝道的在前呼叫说，跪下。这样，法老派他治理埃及全地。
And he made him ride in the chariot of his second-in-command, and they cried out before him, Bow the knee! And he set him over all the land of Egypt.
41:44 法老对约瑟说，我是法老，在埃及全地，若没有你的许可，人不得擅自办事。
And Pharaoh said to Joseph, I am Pharaoh, yet without your consent no man will lift up his hand or his foot in all the land of Egypt.
41:45 法老赐名给约瑟，叫撒发那忒巴内亚，又将安城的祭司波提非拉的女儿亚西纳给他为妻。约瑟就出去巡行埃及地。
And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphenath-paneah, and he gave him Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera priest of On, as his wife. And Joseph went out over
the land of Egypt.
41:46 约瑟开始侍立在埃及王法老面前的时候，年三十岁。他从法老面前出去，遍行埃及全地。
Now Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh and passed through all
the land of Egypt.
41:47 七个丰年之内，地的出产极丰极盛。
And in the seven years of abundance the earth produced copiously.
41:48 约瑟聚敛埃及地那七年一切的粮食，把粮食积存在各城里；各城周围田地的粮食，都积存在本城里。
And he gathered up all the food of the seven years which came upon the land of Egypt and put the food in the cities; he placed the food from the surrounding
fields within each city.
45
41:49 约瑟积蓄谷物甚多，如同海沙，多到不再加以计算，因为无法计算。
And Joseph stored grain in great abundance like the sand of the sea until he stopped measuring it; for it was beyond measure.
41:50 荒年未到以前，安城的祭司波提非拉的女儿亚西纳，给约瑟生了两个儿子。
And before the year of famine came, two sons were born to Joseph, whom Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera priest of On, bore to him.
41:51 约瑟给长子起名叫玛拿西，因为他说，神使我忘了一切的困苦，和我父的全家。
And Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh, for, he said, God has made me forget all my trouble and all my father's house.
41:52 他给次子起名叫以法莲，因为他说，神使我在受苦之地繁衍。
And he called the name of the second Ephraim, for, he said, God has made me fruitful in the land of my affliction.
41:53 埃及地的七个丰年一过，
And the seven years of plenty that came upon the land of Egypt came to an end.
41:54 七个荒年就来了，正如约瑟所说的。各地都有饥荒，惟独埃及全地有粮食。
And the seven years of famine began to come, as Joseph had said. And there was famine in all lands, but in all the land of Egypt there was bread.
41:55 等到埃及全地有了饥荒，众民就向法老哀求粮食。法老对所有的埃及人说，你们往约瑟那里去，凡他所说的，你们都要作。
So when all the land of Egypt became hungry, the people cried out to Pharaoh for bread. And Pharaoh said to all the Egyptians, Go to Joseph; whatever he says
to you, you shall do.
41:56 当时饥荒遍满地面，约瑟开了各处的粮仓，卖粮给埃及人；在埃及地的饥荒逐渐加重。
And when the famine was over all the face of the earth, Joseph opened all the storehouses of grain and sold grain to the Egyptians; and the famine became
severe in the land of Egypt.
41:57 全地的人都往埃及去，到约瑟那里买粮，因为全地的饥荒甚重。
And all the earth came to Joseph in Egypt to buy grain, because the famine was severe in all the earth.
创世记 Genesis 第 42 章
42:1 雅各见埃及有粮，就对儿子们说，你们为什么彼此观望呢？
Now when Jacob saw that there was grain in Egypt, Jacob said to his sons, Why do you keep looking at one another?
42:2 我听见埃及有粮，你们可以下去，从那里为我们买些来，使我们可以存活，不至于死。
And he said, I have now heard that there is grain in Egypt; go down there, and buy grain for us from there, that we may live and not die.
42:3 于是，约瑟的十个哥哥都下埃及买粮去了。
So Joseph's ten brothers went down to buy grain from Egypt.
42:4 但雅各没有打发约瑟的弟弟便雅悯与他哥哥们同去，因为雅各说，恐怕他遭害。
But Jacob did not send Joseph's brother Benjamin with his brothers, for he said, Perhaps harm may befall him.
42:5 来买粮的人中有以色列的儿子们，因为迦南地也有饥荒。
And the sons of Israel came to buy grain among those who also came, for the famine was in the land of Canaan.
42:6 当时治理埃及地的是约瑟；卖粮给那地众民的就是他。约瑟的哥哥们来了，面伏于地，向他下拜。
Now Joseph was the governor over the land; it was he who sold grain to all the people of the land. And Joseph's brothers came and bowed down to him with
their faces to the ground.
42:7 约瑟看见他哥哥们，就认得他们，却装作生人，向他们说些严厉的话，问他们说，你们从那里来？他们说，我们从迦南地来买粮。
And Joseph saw his brothers and recognized them, but he disguised himself to them and spoke harshly with them. And he said to them, Where have you come
from? And they said, From the land of Canaan, to buy grain for food.
42:8 约瑟认得他哥哥们，他们却不认得他。
And Joseph recognized his brothers, but they did not recognize him.
42:9 约瑟想起从前所作关于他们的那两个梦，就对他们说，你们是奸细，来窥探这地的虚实。
And Joseph remembered the dreams that he had dreamed about them, and he said to them, You are spies; you have come to see the nakedness of the land.
42:10 他们对他说，我主阿，不是的，仆人们是来买粮食的。
And they said to him, No, my lord; rather your servants have come to buy grain for food.
42:11 我们都是一个人的儿子，是诚实人；仆人们从来没有作过奸细。
We are all sons of one man. We are honest men; your servants have never been spies.
42:12 约瑟说，不然，你们必是来窥探这地虚实的。
And he said to them, No; but you have come to see the nakedness of the land.
42:13 他们说，仆人们本是弟兄十二人，是迦南地一个人的儿子，最小的现今在我们的父亲那里，还有一个没有了。
And they said, We, your servants, are twelve brothers, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan; and at this moment the youngest is with our father today, and
one is no more.
42:14 约瑟说，我才说你们是奸细，这话实在不错。
But Joseph said to them, It is just as I spoke to you, saying, You are spies.
42:15 我指着法老的性命起誓，若是你们最小的弟弟不到这里来，你们就不得出这地方，藉此就可以把你们试验出来了。
By this you shall be tested: As Pharaoh lives, you shall not go away from this place unless your youngest brother comes here.
42:16 要打发你们中间一个人去，把你们的弟弟带来。至于你们，都要囚在这里，好试验你们的话真不真；若不真，我指着法老的性命起誓，你们必定是
奸细。
Send one of you to get your brother, while you remain bound, that your words may be tested whether there is truth in you. And if not, as Pharaoh lives, surely you
are spies.
42:17 于是约瑟把他们一起拘禁了三天。
And he put them all together in custody three days.
42:18 到第三天，约瑟对他们说，我是敬畏神的；你们照我的话行，就可以存活。
And Joseph said to them on the third day, Do this and live, for I fear God.
42:19 你们如果是诚实人，可以留你们弟兄中的一个，囚在你们拘禁的地方，但你们其余的可以带着粮回去，救你们家里的饥荒。
If you are honest men, let one of your brothers remain bound in your place of custody; and the rest of you go, carry grain for the famine of your households.
46
42:20 把你们最小的弟弟带到我这里来，如此，你们的话便得证实，你们也不至于死。他们就这样行。
And bring your youngest brother to me, that your words may be verified; and you will not die. And they did so.
42:21 他们彼此说，我们对我们的弟弟实在有罪。他哀求我们的时候，我们见他魂里的痛苦，却不肯听，所以这场苦难临到了我们。
And they said one to another, We are indeed guilty concerning our brother, because we saw the distress of his soul when he pleaded with us, yet we would not
listen; therefore this distress has come to us.
42:22 流便说，我岂不是对你们说过，不可犯罪害那孩子么？只是你们不肯听，所以流他血的罪现在向我们追讨。
And Reuben answered them, saying, Did I not speak to you, saying, Do not sin against the child? But you would not listen. So now also his blood is required.
42:23 他们不知道约瑟听得懂，因为在他们中间有传译的人。
And they did not know that Joseph understood, for there was an interpreter between them.
42:24 约瑟转身退去，哭了一场，又回来对他们说话。他从他们中间挑出西缅来，在他们眼前把他捆绑了。
And he turned away from them and wept. Then he returned to them and spoke to them. And he took Simeon from among them and bound him before their eyes.
42:25 约瑟吩咐人把谷物装满他们的器皿，把各人的银子归还在各人的粮袋里，又给他们路上用的食物；人就照他的话办了。
Then Joseph gave orders to fill their bags with grain and to restore every man's silver pieces into his sack and to give them provisions for the way. And thus was it
done for them.
42:26 他们就把粮驮在驴上，离开那里去了。
And they loaded their grain upon their donkeys and departed from there.
42:27 到了住宿的地方，他们中间有一个人打开粮袋，要拿饲粮喂驴，才看见自己的银子仍在袋口；
And one of them opened his sack to give his donkey fodder at the lodging place, and he saw his silver; there it was in the mouth of his sack.
42:28 就对弟兄们说，我的银子归还了，看哪，仍在我袋子里。他们就提心吊胆，战战兢兢的彼此说，这是神向我们作什么呢？
And he said to his brothers, My silver has been returned; and here it is in my sack! And their heart stopped, and they turned trembling to one another, saying,
What is this that God has done to us?
42:29 他们来到迦南地他们的父亲雅各那里，将所遭遇的事都告诉他，说，
And they came to Jacob their father in the land of Canaan and told him all that had happened to them, saying,
42:30 那人，那地的主，对我们说严厉的话，把我们当作窥探那地的奸细。
The man, the lord of the land, spoke harshly to us and took us for spies on the land.
42:31 我们对他说，我们是诚实人，从来没有作过奸细。
But we said to him, We are honest men; we have never been spies.
42:32 我们本是弟兄十二人，都是一个父亲的儿子，有一个没有了，最小的如今同我们的父亲在迦南地。
We are twelve brothers, sons of our father; the one is no more, and the youngest is with our father today in the land of Canaan.
42:33 那人，那地的主，对我们说，若要我知道你们是诚实人，可以留下你们弟兄中的一个在我这里，你们带着粮食回去，救你们家里的饥荒。
And the man, the lord of the land, said to us, By this will I know that you are honest men: Leave one of your brothers with me, and take grain for the famine of
your households, and go.
42:34 把你们最小的弟弟带到我这里来，我便知道你们不是奸细，乃是诚实人。这样，我就把你们的弟兄交给你们，你们也可以在这地作买卖。
And bring your youngest brother to me that I may know that you are not spies but are honest men. I will give you your brother, and you may trade in the land.
42:35 后来他们倒粮袋，不料，各人的银包都在粮袋里；他们和父亲看见银包就都害怕。
And when they emptied their sacks, there was each man's bundle of silver pieces, in his sack. And when they and their father saw their bundles of silver, they
were afraid.
42:36 他们的父亲雅各对他们说，你们使我丧失我的儿子：约瑟没有了，西缅也没有了，你们又要将便雅悯带去；这些事都落到我身上了。
And Jacob their father said to them, You have bereaved me of my children: Joseph is no more, and Simeon is no more, and you would take Benjamin; all these
things are against me.
42:37 流便对他父亲说，我若不带他回来交给你，你可以杀我的两个儿子。只管把他交在我手里，我必带他回来交给你。
And Reuben spoke to his father, saying, You may put to death my two sons if I do not bring him to you. Put him in my hand, and I will return him to you.
42:38 雅各说，我的儿子不可与你们一同下去；他哥哥死了，只剩下他，他若在你们所行的路上遭害，那便是你们使我白发苍苍、悲悲惨惨的下阴间去了。
But he said, My son shall not go down with you, for his brother is dead, and he alone is left. And if harm should befall him on the way in which you go, then you
will bring down my gray hairs in sorrow to Sheol.
创世记 Genesis 第 43 章
43:1 那地的饥荒甚重。
Now the famine was severe in the land.
43:2 他们从埃及带来的粮吃尽了，他们的父亲就对他们说，你们再去给我们买一点粮食来。
And when they had completely consumed the grain which they had brought out of Egypt, their father said to them, Go back; buy us a little food.
43:3 但犹大对他说，那人郑重的警告我们说，你们的弟弟若不与你们同来，你们就不得见我的面。
But Judah spoke to him, saying, The man solemnly warned us, saying, You shall not see my face unless your brother is with you.
43:4 你若愿意打发我们的弟弟与我们同去，我们就下去给你买粮食；
If you are willing to send our brother with us, we will go down and buy you grain for food;
43:5 你若不愿意打发他去，我们就不下去，因为那人对我们说，你们的弟弟若不与你们同来，你们就不得见我的面。
But if you are not willing to send him, we will not go down; for the man said to us, You shall not see my face unless your brother is with you.
43:6 以色列说，你们为什么这样害我，告诉那人你们还有弟弟呢？
And Israel said, Why did you treat me so badly as to tell the man that you had another brother?
43:7 他们说，那人详细的问到我们和我们的亲属，说，你们的父亲还健在么？你们还有兄弟么？我们就按着他所问的告诉他。我们怎能知道他会说，把你
们的弟弟带下来呢？
And they said, The man asked very carefully about us and about our relatives, saying, Is your father still alive? Do you have another brother? So we told him about
these things. Could we possibly know that he would say, Bring your brother down?
43:8 犹大又对他父亲以色列说，你打发少年人与我同去，我们就起身下去，好叫我们和你，并我们的妇人孩子，都得存活，不至于死。
And Judah said to Israel his father, Send the boy with me, and we will rise up and go, that we may live and not die, we and you and our little ones.
47
43:9 我为他作保，你可以从我手中追讨。我若不带他回来交在你面前，我就永远在你面前担罪。
I myself will be surety for him; of my hand you may require him. If I do not bring him to you and set him before you, then I shall bear the blame of sinning before
you forever.
43:10 我们若没有耽搁，如今第二次都回来了。
For if we had not delayed, by now we could have returned twice.
43:11 他们的父亲以色列对他们说，若必须如此，你们就当这样行：可以取些这地佳美的出产，就是一点香油和一点蜂蜜、香胶和没药，榧子和杏仁，收
在器皿里，带下去送给那人作礼物；
And their father Israel said to them, If it must be so, then do this: Take some of the choice fruits of the land in your bags, and carry a present down to the man-a
little balm and a little honey, aromatic gum and myrrh, pistachio nuts and almonds.
43:12 又要手里带着加倍的银子，并要将归还在你们袋口的银子带回去；那或者是错了。
And take double the silver in your hand, and carry back in your hand the silver that was returned in the mouth of your sacks; perhaps it was a mistake.
43:13 也带着你们的弟弟，起身回去见那人。
Take your brother also, and rise up. Return to the man,
43:14 但愿全足的神在那人面前赐你们怜悯，使他释放你们的那弟兄和便雅悯回来。至于我，我若丧了儿子，就丧了罢。
And may the All-sufficient God grant you mercy before the man, that he may release to you your other brother and Benjamin. And as for me, if I am to be
bereaved of my children, I shall be bereaved.
43:15 于是，他们拿着礼物，手里带着加倍的银子，并且带着便雅悯，起身下到埃及，站在约瑟面前。
So the men took this present, and they took double the silver in their hand and Benjamin; and they rose up and went down to Egypt and stood before Joseph.
43:16 约瑟见便雅悯和他们同来，就对家宰说，将这些人领到屋里，要宰杀牲畜，预备筵席，因为正午这些人要同我吃饭。
And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to him who was over his house, Bring the men into the house, and slaughter an animal, and prepare it; for
the men will eat with me at noon.
43:17 家宰就遵着约瑟的命去行，领他们进约瑟的屋里。
And the man did as Joseph said, and the man brought the men into Joseph's house.
43:18 他们因为被领到约瑟的屋里，就害怕，说，必是因为头次归还在我们袋子里的银子，才领我们到这里来，要找机会下手害我们，强取我们作奴仆，
抢夺我们的驴。
And the men were afraid because they were brought to Joseph's house; and they said, It is because of the silver that was returned in our sacks the first time, that
we are being brought in, that he may come out against us and fall upon us and take us as slaves with our donkeys.
43:19 他们就挨近约瑟的家宰，在屋门口和他说话，
And they came near to the man who was over Joseph's house and spoke to him at the door of the house,
43:20 说，我主阿，我们头次下来实在是要买粮食。
And said, Please, my lord, we indeed came down the first time to buy grain for food;
43:21 后来到了住宿的地方，我们打开袋子，不料，各人的银子分量足数，仍在各人的袋口；现在我们手里又带回来了。
And when we came to the lodging place, we opened our sacks, and there was each man's silver, in the mouth of his sack, our silver in full weight. So we have
brought it back in our hand.
43:22 我们手里还另外带下银子来买粮食。我们不知道先前谁把银子放在我们的袋子里。
And we have also brought down extra silver in our hand to buy grain for food. We do not know who put our silver in our sacks.
43:23 家宰说，你们可以放心，不要害怕，是你们的神和你们父亲的神，赐给你们财宝在你们的袋子里；你们的银子，我早已收了。他就把西缅带出来，
交给他们。
And he said, Be at peace; do not fear. Your God and the God of your father has given you treasure in your sacks; your silver came to me. Then he brought Simeon
out to them.
43:24 家宰就领他们进约瑟的屋里，给他们水洗脚，又给他们饲粮喂驴。
And the man brought the men into Joseph's house and gave them water, and they washed their feet; and he gave their donkeys fodder.
43:25 他们就预备礼物，等候约瑟正午来，因为他们听见要在那里吃饭。
And they prepared the present for Joseph's coming at noon, for they had heard that they would eat a meal there.
43:26 约瑟来到家里，他们就把手中的礼物拿进屋去给他，又俯伏在地，向他下拜。
And when Joseph came into the house, they brought him the present which was in their hand into the house and bowed down to the ground to him.
43:27 约瑟问他们安，又说，你们的父亲，就是你们所说的那老人家平安么？他还健在么？
And he asked them about their welfare and said, Is your father well, the old man of whom you spoke? Is he still alive?
43:28 他们回答说，你仆人我们的父亲平安；他还健在。于是他们低头下拜。
And they said, Your servant our father is well; he is still alive. And they bowed and paid him homage.
43:29 约瑟举目看见他同母的弟弟便雅悯，就说，你们向我所说那最小的弟弟，就是这位么？又说，小儿阿，愿神赐恩给你。
And he lifted up his eyes and saw his brother Benjamin, his mother's son, and said, Is this your youngest brother, of whom you spoke to me? And he said, God
be gracious to you, my son.
43:30 约瑟爱弟之情发动，就急忙寻找可哭之处，进入自己的内室，哭了一场。
And Joseph hurried-for his inward parts burned for his brother-and sought a place to weep. So he entered into his chamber and wept there.
43:31 他洗了脸出来，勉强忍住，吩咐人摆饭。
Then he washed his face and came out, and he controlled himself and said, Serve the meal.
43:32 他们就为约瑟单摆了一席，为那些人又摆了一席，也为和约瑟同吃饭的埃及人另摆了一席，因为埃及人不可和希伯来人一同吃饭；那原是埃及人所
厌恶的。
And they served him by himself, and them by themselves, and the Egyptians who ate with him by themselves, because the Egyptians could not eat a meal with
the Hebrews, for that is an abomination to the Egyptians.
43:33 约瑟使众弟兄在他面前坐席，都按着长幼的次序，众弟兄就彼此惊奇相看。
And they sat before him, the firstborn according to his birthright and the youngest according to his youth, and the men looked at one another in astonishment.
43:34 约瑟把他面前的食物分出来，送给他们；但便雅悯所得的分，比别人多五倍。他们就饮酒，和约瑟一同宴乐。
And he had portions brought to them from before him; however Benjamin's portion was five times as much as any of theirs. And they drank and were merry with
him.
48
创世记 Genesis 第 44 章
44:1 约瑟吩咐家宰说，把粮食装满这些人的袋子，尽他们所能带的，又把各人的银子放在各人的袋口；
And he commanded him who was over his house, saying, Fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put each man's silver in the mouth of his
sack.
44:2 并将我的银杯，和那最年幼的买粮的银子，一同装在他的袋口。家宰就照约瑟所说的话行了。
And put my cup, the silver cup, in the mouth of the sack of the youngest with his silver for the grain. And he did so, according to the word that Joseph had spoken.
44:3 早晨天一亮，就打发那些人带着驴走了。
As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, they and their donkeys.
44:4 他们出城走了不远，约瑟对家宰说，起来，追那些人去，追上了就对他们说，你们为什么以恶报善？
When they had just gone out of the city and were not yet far off, Joseph said to him who was over his house, Rise up, follow after the men; and when you
overtake them, say to them, Why have you repaid evil for good?
44:5 这不是我主人饮酒的杯么？岂不是他占卜用的么？你们这样行是作恶了。
Is not this that from which my lord drinks, and which he indeed uses for divining? You have done wrong in so doing.
44:6 家宰追上他们，将这些话对他们说了。
And he overtook them and spoke these words to them.
44:7 他们回答说，我主为什么说这样的话？你仆人断不会作这样的事。
And they said to him, Why does my lord speak such words as these? Far be it from your servants to do such a thing.
44:8 你看，我们从前在袋口里所发现的银子，尚且从迦南地带来还你，我们怎能从你主人家里偷窃金银呢？
See how we brought back to you the silver which we found in the mouth of our sacks from the land of Canaan. How then could we steal silver or gold out of your
lord's house?
44:9 在你仆人中，无论从谁那里搜出来，就叫他死，我们也作我主的奴仆。
With whomever of your servants it is found, let him die; and we ourselves will become my lord's slaves.
44:10 家宰说，现在就照你们的话行罢。从谁那里搜出来，谁就作我的奴仆，你们其余的都没有罪。
And he said, Now also let it be according to your words: He with whom it is found will be my slave; and the rest of you will be blameless.
44:11 于是他们各人急忙把袋子卸在地上，各人打开自己的袋子。
Then each man hurried and lowered his sack to the ground, and each man opened his sack.
44:12 家宰就搜查，从最年长的起，到最年幼的为止，那杯竟在便雅悯的袋子里搜出来。
And he searched, beginning with the oldest and ending with the youngest; and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack.
44:13 他们就撕裂衣服，各人把驮子抬在驴上，回城去了。
Then they tore their garments, and each man loaded his donkey, and they returned to the city.
44:14 犹大和他弟兄们来到约瑟的屋中，约瑟还在那里，他们就在他面前俯伏于地。
And Judah and his brothers came to Joseph's house, and he was still there; and they fell to the ground before him.
44:15 约瑟对他们说，你们作的是什么事？你们岂不知像我这样的人必能占卜么？
And Joseph said to them, What deed is this that you have done? Do you not know that such a man as I can indeed divine?
44:16 犹大说，我们能对我主说什么？还能说什么呢？我们怎能表白自己？神已经查出你仆人们的罪孽了。我们与那在他手中搜出杯来的，都是我主的奴
仆。
And Judah said, What can we say to my lord? What can we speak? And how can we justify ourselves? God has found out the iniquity of your servants. Here we
are, my lord's slaves, both we and the one in whose hand the cup has been found.
44:17 约瑟说，我断不能这样行。在谁的手中搜出杯来，谁就作我的奴仆；至于你们其余的人，可以平平安安的上你们父亲那里去。
But he said, Far be it from me to do this. The man in whose hand the cup has been found, he will be my slave; but as for the rest of you, go up in peace to your
father.
44:18 犹大挨近他，说，我主阿，求你让仆人说一句话给我主听，不要向仆人发烈怒，因为你如同法老一样。
Then Judah came near to him and said, Please, my lord, let your servant speak a word in my lord's ears, and let not your anger burn against your servant; for you
are even as Pharaoh.
44:19 我主曾问仆人们说，你们有父亲、有兄弟没有？
My lord asked his servants, saying, Do you have a father or a brother?
44:20 我们对我主说，我们有年老的父亲，还有他老年所生的一个小孩子。他哥哥死了，他母亲只撇下他一个人，他父亲疼爱他。
And we said to my lord, We have an old father and a young child of his old age; and his brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother, and his father loves
him.
44:21 你对仆人们说，把他带下来到我这里，叫我可以亲眼看看他。
And you said to your servants, Bring him down to me, that I may set my eyes on him.
44:22 我们对我主说，少年人不能离开他父亲，若是离开，他父亲必会死。
And we said to my lord, The boy cannot leave his father; for if he should leave his father, his father would die.
44:23 你对仆人说，你们最小的弟弟若不与你们一同下来，你们就不得再见我的面。
And you said to your servants, Unless your youngest brother comes down with you, you shall see my face no more.
44:24 我们上到你仆人我们父亲那里，就把我主的话告诉了他。
And when we went up to your servant my father, we told him my lord's words.
44:25 我们的父亲说，你们再去给我们买一点粮食来。
And our father said, Return, buy us a little food.
44:26 但我们说，我们不能下去。我们最小的弟弟若与我们同往，我们就下去。因为最小的弟弟若不与我们同往，我们必不得见那人的面。
But we said, We cannot go down. If our youngest brother is with us, we will go down; for we cannot see the man's face unless our youngest brother is with us.
44:27 你仆人我父亲对我们说，你们知道我的妻子给我生了两个儿子。
And your servant my father said to us, You know that my wife bore me two sons;
44:28 一个离开我去了，我说他必是被撕碎了，直到如今我没有见到他。
49
And the one went away from me, and I said, Surely he has been torn to pieces; and I have not seen him to this day.
44:29 现在你们又要把这个带去离开我，倘若他遭害，那便是你们使我白发苍苍、悲悲惨惨的下阴间去了。
And if you take this one also from me and harm befalls him, you will bring down my gray hairs in misery to Sheol.
44:30 我父亲的命与这少年人的命相连。如今我回到你仆人我父亲那里，若没有少年人与我们同在，
Now therefore when I come to your servant my father, and the boy is not with us, and his life being bound up in the boy's life,
44:31 我们的父亲见没有少年人，他就必死。这便是我们使你仆人我们的父亲白发苍苍、悲悲惨惨的下阴间去了。
When he sees that the boy is not with us, he will die; and your servants will bring down the gray hairs of your servant our father in sorrow to Sheol.
44:32 因为仆人曾向我父亲为这少年人作保，说，我若不带他回来交给你，我便永远在父亲面前担罪。
For your servant became surety for the lad to my father, saying, If I do not bring him to you, then I shall bear the blame of sinning before my father forever.
44:33 现在求你让仆人留下，替这少年人作我主的奴仆，叫他和哥哥们一同上去。
Now therefore, please let your servant remain as a slave to my lord instead of the boy, and let the boy go up with his brothers.
44:34 若这少年人不和我同去，我怎能上去见我父亲？我怕看见灾祸临到我父亲身上。
For how shall I go up to my father if the boy is not with me? I fear to see the evil that would come on my father.
创世记 Genesis 第 45 章
45:1 约瑟在左右侍立的人面前情不自禁，大声吩咐说，各人都要离开我出去！约瑟和他弟兄们相认的时候，并没有一个人站在他身边。
Then Joseph could not control himself before all those who attended him; and he cried out, Have everyone go out from me. So there was no one standing with
him when Joseph made himself known to his brothers.
45:2 他就放声大哭，埃及人和法老家中的人都听见了。
And he wept so loudly that the Egyptians heard it, and the household of Pharaoh heard it.
45:3 约瑟对他弟兄们说，我是约瑟；我的父亲还健在么？他弟兄们不能回答，因为在他面前都甚惊惶。
And Joseph said to his brothers, I am Joseph! Is my father still alive? But his brothers could not answer him, so troubled were they at his presence.
45:4 约瑟又对他弟兄们说，请你们近前到我这里来。他们就近前来。他说，我是你们的弟兄约瑟，就是你们所卖到埃及的。
And Joseph said to his brothers, Please come closer to me. And they came closer. And he said, I am your brother Joseph, whom you sold into Egypt.
45:5 现在，不要因为你们把我卖到这里，自忧自恨。这是神差我在你们以先来，为要保全生命。
And now do not be grieved or angry with yourselves because you sold me here, for God sent me before you to preserve life.
45:6 现在这地的饥荒已经二年了，并且还有五年不能耕种，不能收成。
For the famine has been in the midst of the land these two years, and there are still five years in which there will be neither plowing nor harvest.
45:7 神差我在你们以先来，为要给你们存留余种在地上，又要大施拯救，使你们存活。
And God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant in the earth and to keep you alive by a great deliverance.
45:8 这样看来，差我到这里来的不是你们，乃是神。祂又立我作法老的父，作他全家的主，并埃及全地的统治者。
So now it was not you who sent me here, but God; and He has made me a father to Pharaoh and lord of all his house and ruler over all the land of Egypt.
45:9 你们要赶紧上到我父亲那里，对他说，你的儿子约瑟这样说：神使我作全埃及的主，请你下到我这里来，不要耽延。
Hurry and go up to my father, and say to him, Thus says your son Joseph, God has made me lord of all Egypt; come down to me; do not delay.
45:10 你和你的儿子、孙子，连牛群、羊群，并一切所有的，都可以住在歌珊地，与我相近。
And you shall dwell in the land of Goshen and be near to me, you and your children and your children's children and your flocks and your herds and all that you
have.
45:11 我要在那里奉养你；因为还有五年的饥荒，免得你和你的眷属，并一切所有的，都穷乏了。
And there I will sustain you-for there are still five years of famine to come-so that you and your household and all that you have do not become impoverished.
45:12 况且你们的眼和我弟弟便雅悯的眼都看见，是我亲口对你们说话。
And now your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin see, that it is my own mouth that speaks to you.
45:13 你们也要将我在埃及一切的荣耀，和你们所看见一切的事，都告诉我父亲，又要赶紧将我父亲搬到这里来。
And you must tell my father of all my glory in Egypt and of all that you have seen, and you must hurry and bring my father down here.
45:14 于是约瑟伏在他弟弟便雅悯的颈项上哭，便雅悯也在他的颈项上哭。
And he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck and wept, and Benjamin wept upon his neck.
45:15 他又与众弟兄亲嘴，抱着他们哭，随后他弟兄们就和他说话。
And he kissed all his brothers and wept upon them, and after that his brothers talked with him.
45:16 这风声传到法老的宫里，说，约瑟的弟兄们来了。法老和他的臣仆都很喜欢。
And when the report was heard in Pharaoh's house, saying, Joseph's brothers have come, it was pleasing to Pharaoh and to his servants.
45:17 法老对约瑟说，你吩咐你的弟兄们说，你们要这样行：把驮子抬在牲口上，起程往迦南地去。
And Pharaoh said to Joseph, Say to your brothers, Do this: Load your beasts, and depart; go to the land of Canaan;
45:18 将你们的父亲和你们的眷属，都搬到我这里来，我要把埃及最好的地赐给你们，你们也要吃这地肥美的出产。
And take your father and your households, and come to me; and I will give you the best of the land of Egypt, and you will eat the fat of the land.
45:19 现在我吩咐你们要这样行：从埃及地带着车辆去，接你们的孩子和妻子，并把你们的父亲载来。
And you are commanded, Do this: Take wagons out of the land of Egypt for your little ones and for your wives; and bring your father, and come.
45:20 你们眼中不要顾惜你们的物件，因为埃及全地的美物都是你们的。
And do not be concerned for your possessions, for the best of all the land of Egypt is yours.
45:21 以色列的儿子们就如此行。约瑟照着法老的吩咐给他们车辆，和路上用的食物。
And the sons of Israel did so, and Joseph gave them wagons according to the command of Pharaoh and gave them provisions for the way.
45:22 又给他们各人一套衣服，惟独给便雅悯三百锭银子，五套衣服；
To each of them he gave changes of garments; but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver and five changes of garments.
45:23 送给他父亲公驴十匹，驮着埃及的美物；母驴十匹，驮着谷物、饼、和其他食物，为他父亲路上用。
And he sent to his father the following: ten donkeys loaded with the best of Egypt, and ten female donkeys loaded with grain and bread and provision for his
father on the way.
45:24 于是约瑟打发他弟兄们回去；他们走的时候，约瑟对他们说，你们在路上不要相争。
50
So he sent his brothers away; and as they departed, he said to them, Do not quarrel on the way.
45:25 他们从埃及上去，来到迦南地，他们的父亲雅各那里，
So they went up out of Egypt and came to the land of Canaan to Jacob their father.
45:26 告诉他说，约瑟还在，并且作了埃及全地的统治者。雅各心里麻木，因为不信他们。
And they told him, saying, Joseph is still alive, and he is ruler over all the land of Egypt. And his heart became numb, for he did not believe them.
45:27 他们便将约瑟对他们说的一切话，都告诉了他；他们父亲雅各又看见约瑟打发来接他的车辆，灵就苏醒了。
And they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said to them; and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of Jacob their
father revived.
45:28 以色列说，罢了！罢了！我的儿子约瑟还在，我要趁着未死以先，去见他一面。
And Israel said, It is enough. Joseph my son is still alive. I will go and see him before I die.
创世记 Genesis 第 46 章
46:1 以色列带着一切所有的，起行来到别是巴，就献祭给他父亲以撒的神。
So Israel set out with all that he had and came to Beer-sheba and offered sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac.
46:2 神在夜间的异象中对以色列说，雅各，雅各。他说，我在这里。
And God spoke to Israel in the visions of the night and said, Jacob, Jacob. And he said, Here I am.
46:3 神说，我是神，就是你父亲的神；你下埃及去不要害怕，因为我必使你在那里成为大国。
And He said, I am God, the God of your father; do not be afraid to go down to Egypt, for I will make of you a great nation there.
46:4 我要亲自同你下埃及去，也必定亲自再带你上来；约瑟必给你送终。
I Myself will go down with you to Egypt, and I Myself will also surely bring you up again; and Joseph's hand will close your eyes.
46:5 雅各就从别是巴起身。以色列的儿子们使他们的父亲雅各、和他们的孩子、妻子，都坐上法老所送来载雅各的车。
And Jacob rose up from Beer-sheba, and the sons of Israel carried Jacob their father and their little ones and their wives in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent
to carry him.
46:6 他们又带着在迦南地所得的牲畜、财物来到埃及，雅各和他的一切子孙都一同来了。
And they took their livestock and their possessions, which they had acquired in the land of Canaan, and Jacob and all his offspring with him came to Egypt.
46:7 雅各把他的儿子和孙子，女儿和孙女，他的一切子孙，一同带到埃及。
His sons and his grandsons with him, his daughters and his granddaughters, and all his offspring he brought with him to Egypt.
46:8 来到埃及的以色列人，就是雅各和他的子孙，名字记在下面：雅各的长子是流便。
And these are the names of the children of Israel, who came to Egypt, Jacob and his sons: Jacob's firstborn, Reuben.
46:9 流便的儿子是哈诺、法路、希斯伦、迦米。
And the sons of Reuben: Hanoch and Pallu and Hezron and Carmi.
46:10 西缅的儿子是耶母利、雅悯、阿辖、雅斤、琐辖，还有迦南女子所生的扫罗。
And the sons of Simeon: Jemuel and Jamin and Ohad and Jachin and Zohar and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman.
46:11 利未的儿子是革顺、哥辖、米拉利。
And the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
46:12 犹大的儿子是珥、俄南、示拉、法勒斯、谢拉；只是珥与俄南死在迦南地。法勒斯的儿子是希斯伦、哈母勒。
And the sons of Judah: Er and Onan and Shelah and Perez and Zerah; but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And the sons of Perez were Hezron and
Hamul.
46:13 以萨迦的儿子是陀拉、普瓦、约伯、伸仑。
And the sons of Issachar: Tola and Puvah and Iob and Shimron.
46:14 西布伦的儿子是西烈、以伦、雅利。
And the sons of Zebulun: Sered and Elon and Jahleel.
46:15 这些是利亚在巴旦亚兰给雅各所生的儿子，还有女儿底拿。儿孙共三十三人。
These are the sons of Leah, whom she bore to Jacob in Paddan-aram, along with his daughter Dinah. His sons and his daughters were thirty-three persons in
all.
46:16 迦得的儿子是洗非芸、哈基、书尼、以斯本、以利、亚罗底、亚列利。
And the sons of Gad: Ziphion and Haggi, Shuni and Ezbon, Eri and Arodi and Areli.
46:17 亚设的儿子是音拿、亦施瓦、亦施韦、比利亚，还有他们的妹妹西拉。比利亚的儿子是希别、玛结。
And the sons of Asher: Imnah and Ishvah and Ishvi and Beriah, and Serah their sister; and the sons of Beriah: Heber and Malchiel.
46:18 这些是拉班给他女儿利亚的婢女悉帕，从雅各所生的儿孙，共有十六人。
These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to his daughter Leah; and she bore these to Jacob, sixteen persons.
46:19 雅各之妻拉结的儿子是约瑟和便雅悯。
The sons of Rachel, Jacob's wife: Joseph and Benjamin.
46:20 约瑟在埃及地生了玛拿西和以法莲，他们是安城的祭司波提非拉的女儿亚西纳给约瑟生的。
And to Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and Ephraim, whom Asenath the daughter of Potiphera priest of On bore to him.
46:21 便雅悯的儿子是比拉、比结、亚实别、基拉、乃幔、以希、罗实、母平、户平、亚勒。
And the sons of Benjamin: Bela and Becher and Ashbel, Gera and Naaman, Ehi and Rosh, Muppim and Huppim and Ard.
46:22 这些是拉结给雅各所生的儿孙，共有十四人。
These are the sons of Rachel, who were born to Jacob, fourteen persons in all.
46:23 但的儿子是户伸。
And the sons of Dan: Hushim.
46:24 拿弗他利的儿子是雅薛、沽尼、耶色、示冷。
And the sons of Naphtali: Jahzeel and Guni and Jezer and Shillem.
46:25 这些是拉班给他女儿拉结的婢女辟拉，从雅各所生的儿孙，共有七人。
These are the sons of Bilhah, whom Laban gave to Rachel his daughter, and she bore these to Jacob, seven persons in all.
51
46:26 那与雅各同到埃及的除了他儿媳之外，凡从他所生的共有六十六人。
All the persons who came with Jacob into Egypt, who came out of his loins, besides the wives of Jacob's sons, were sixty-six persons in all.
46:27 还有约瑟在埃及所生的儿子，共二人。雅各家来到埃及的，共有七十人。
And the sons of Joseph, who were born to him in Egypt, were two persons. All the persons of the house of Jacob, who came to Egypt, were seventy.
46:28 雅各打发犹大先去见约瑟，请派人引路往歌珊去；于是他们来到歌珊地。
And he sent Judah before him to Joseph to show the way before him to Goshen, and they came to the land of Goshen.
46:29 约瑟套车上歌珊去，迎接他父亲以色列；等到见了面，就伏在父亲的颈项上哭了许久。
And Joseph made his chariot ready and went up to Goshen to meet Israel his father. And when he appeared before him, he fell on his neck and wept on his neck
a good while.
46:30 以色列对约瑟说，我既得见你的面，知道你还在，就是死我也甘心。
And Israel said to Joseph, Let me die now since I have seen your face and know that you are still alive.
46:31 约瑟对他的弟兄们和他父的全家说，我要上去告诉法老，对他说，我的弟兄们和我父的全家，从前在迦南地，现今都到我这里来了。
And Joseph said to his brothers and to his father's household, I will go up and tell Pharaoh, and will say to him, My brothers and my father's household, who
were in the land of Canaan, have come to me.
46:32 他们本是牧羊的人，以养牲畜为业；他们把羊群、牛群和一切所有的，都带来了。
And the men are shepherds, for they have been keepers of livestock; and they have brought their flocks and their herds and all that they have.
46:33 等法老召你们的时候，问你们说，你们以何事为业？
And when Pharaoh calls you and says, What is your occupation?
46:34 你们要说，你的仆人们从幼年直到如今，都以养牲畜为业，我们和我们的祖宗都是如此。这样，你们就可以住在歌珊地，因为凡牧羊的都被埃及人
所厌恶。
You shall say, Your servants have been keepers of livestock from our youth even until now, both we and our fathers; that you may dwell in the land of Goshen, for
every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians.
创世记 Genesis 第 47 章
47:1 约瑟进去告诉法老说，我的父亲和我的弟兄们带着羊群、牛群、并一切所有的，从迦南地来了，如今在歌珊地。
Then Joseph went in and told Pharaoh and said, My father and my brothers and their flocks and their herds and all that they have, have come out of the land of
Canaan; and now they are in the land of Goshen.
47:2 约瑟从他众弟兄中挑出五个人来，引他们去见法老。
And he took five men from among his brothers and presented them to Pharaoh.
47:3 法老问约瑟的弟兄们说，你们以何事为业？他们对法老说，你仆人们是牧羊的，我们和我们的祖宗都是如此。
And Pharaoh said to his brothers, What is your occupation? And they said to Pharaoh, Your servants are shepherds, both we and our fathers.
47:4 他们又对法老说，迦南地的饥荒甚重，那里没有草场供应你仆人们的羊群，所以我们来到这地寄居。现在求你让仆人们住在歌珊地。
And they said to Pharaoh, We have come to sojourn in the land because there is no pasture for your servants' flocks, for the famine is severe in the land of
Canaan. Now therefore, please let your servants dwell in the land of Goshen.
47:5 法老对约瑟说，你父亲和你弟兄们到你这里来了。
And Pharaoh spoke to Joseph, saying, Your father and your brothers have come to you.
47:6 埃及地都在你面前，只管叫你父亲和你弟兄们住在最好的地；他们可以住在歌珊地。你若知道他们中间有什么能干的人，就派他们看管我的牲畜。
The land of Egypt is before you; settle your father and your brothers in the best of the land; let them dwell in the land of Goshen. And if you know any capable
men among them, make them overseers over my livestock.
47:7 约瑟领他父亲雅各进去，站在法老面前，
And Joseph brought in Jacob his father and set him before Pharaoh, and Jacob blessed Pharaoh.
47:8 雅各就给法老祝福。法老问雅各说，你平生的年日是多少呢？
And Pharaoh said to Jacob, How many are the years of your life?
47:9 雅各对法老说，我寄居在世的年日是一百三十岁；我平生的年日又少又苦，不及我列祖在世寄居的年日。
And Jacob said to Pharaoh, The years of my sojourning are one hundred thirty years; few and evil have been the years of my life, and they have not attained to
the years of the lives of my fathers during the days of their sojourning.
47:10 雅各又给法老祝福，就从法老面前出去了。
And Jacob blessed Pharaoh and went forth from Pharaoh's presence.
47:11 约瑟遵着法老的命，叫他父亲和弟兄们住下，将埃及境内最好的地，就是兰塞地，给他们作为产业。
And Joseph settled his father and his brothers and gave them a possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land of Rameses, as Pharaoh had
commanded.
47:12 约瑟用粮食供养他父亲和他弟兄们，并他父亲全家的眷属，都是照各家的人口供养他们。
And Joseph sustained his father and his brothers and all his father's household with food according to the number of their little ones.
47:13 全地都绝了粮，因为饥荒极重，以致埃及地和迦南地因饥荒的缘故，都凋萎了。
And there was no food in all the land, for the famine was so very severe that the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan languished because of the famine.
47:14 约瑟收聚了埃及地和迦南地所有的银子，就是众人买粮的银子；约瑟就把那银子带到法老的宫里。
And Joseph collected all the money that was to be found in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan for the grain which they bought, and Joseph brought the
money into Pharaoh's house.
47:15 埃及地和迦南地的银子都花尽了，埃及众人都来见约瑟，说，我们的银子都用尽了，求你给我们粮食，我们为什么要死在你面前呢？
And when the money from the land of Egypt and from the land of Canaan had been spent, all the Egyptians came to Joseph saying, Give us food, for why should
we die in your presence? For our money is gone.
47:16 约瑟说，若是银子用尽了，可以把你们的牲畜带来，我就给你们粮食，来换你们的牲畜。
And Joseph said, Bring your livestock, and I will give you food in exchange for your livestock, if your money is gone.
47:17 于是他们把牲畜赶到约瑟那里，约瑟就拿粮食换了他们的马、羊群、牛群和驴；那一年因换他们一切的牲畜，就用粮食养活他们。
52
And they brought their livestock to Joseph, and Joseph gave them food in exchange for the horses and for the flocks of sheep and for the herds of cattle and for
the donkeys; and he fed them with food in exchange for all their livestock that year.
47:18 那一年过去，第二年他们又来见约瑟，说，我们不瞒我主，我们的银子都花尽了，牲畜也都归了我主。我们在我主眼前，除了我们的身体和田地之
外，一无所剩。
And when that year had ended, they came to him the second year and said to him, We cannot hide from my lord that our money has been spent, and the herds
of cattle are my lord's. There is nothing left in the sight of my lord except our bodies and our lands.
47:19 我们为什么要在你面前人死地荒呢？求你用粮食买我们和我们的地，我们和我们的地就要给法老效力；并且求你给我们种子，使我们得以存活，不
至死亡，地土也不至荒凉。
Why should we die before your eyes, both we and our land? Buy us and our land in exchange for food, and we and our land will become servants to Pharaoh.
And give us seed that we may live and not die, and that the land may not be desolate.
47:20 于是约瑟为法老买了埃及所有的地；埃及人因被饥荒所迫，各都卖了自己的田地；那地就都归了法老。
So Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh; for every Egyptian sold his field, because the famine was severe upon them; and the land became Pharaoh's.
47:21 至于百姓，约瑟叫他们从埃及境内的这边直到那边，都迁移到各城里。
And as for the people, he removed them to the cities from one end of the border of Egypt even to the other end.
47:22 惟有祭司的地，约瑟没有买，因为祭司有从法老所得的常俸。他们吃法老所给的常俸，所以他们不卖自己的地。
Only the land of the priests he did not buy, for the priests had an assigned portion from Pharaoh, and they lived off their portion which Pharaoh gave them;
therefore they did not sell their land.
47:23 那时约瑟对百姓说，看哪，我今日为法老买了你们和你们的地；这里有种子给你们，你们可以种地。
Then Joseph said to the people, Now that I have this day bought you and your land for Pharaoh, here is seed for you that you may sow the land.
47:24 到收割的时候，你们要把五分之一纳给法老，五分之四可以归你们自己作田地里的种子，也作你们、你们家人和孩童的食物。
And when harvest comes, you shall give a fifth to Pharaoh, and four-fifths shall be your own as seed of the field and as food for you and for those of your
households and as food for your little ones.
47:25 他们说，你救了我们的性命。但愿我们在我主眼前蒙恩，我们就作法老的仆人。
And they said, You have saved our lives. May we find favor in the sight of my lord and be Pharaoh's servants.
47:26 于是约瑟为埃及的地立下定例，直到今日：法老必得五分之一，惟独祭司的地不归法老。
And Joseph made it a statute concerning the land of Egypt that stands to this day, that Pharaoh should have the fifth; only the land of the priests alone did not
become Pharaoh's.
47:27 以色列人住在埃及的歌珊地；他们在那里置了产业，并且极其繁衍增多。
And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the land of Goshen; and they acquired possessions in it and were fruitful and multiplied exceedingly.
47:28 雅各住在埃及地十七年，雅各平生的年日是一百四十七岁。
And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years. Thus the days of Jacob, the years of his life, were one hundred forty-seven years.
47:29 以色列的死期临近了，他就叫了他儿子约瑟来，说，我若在你眼前蒙恩，请你把手放在我大腿下起誓；用恩慈和诚信待我，请你不要将我葬在埃及。
And the time for Israel to die drew near. And he called his son Joseph and said to him, If now I have found favor in your sight, please put your hand under my
thigh and deal with me in kindness and truth; please do not bury me in Egypt.
47:30 我与我祖我父同睡的时候，你要将我带出埃及，葬在他们所葬的地方。约瑟说，我必遵着你的话而行。
But when I lie down with my fathers, you shall carry me out of Egypt, and bury me in their burial place. And he said, I will do as you have said.
47:31 雅各说，你要向我起誓。约瑟就向他起了誓，于是以色列在床头上敬拜神。
And he said, Swear to me; and he swore to him. Then Israel bowed himself at the head of his bed.
创世记 Genesis 第 48 章
48:1 这些事以后，有人告诉约瑟说，你的父亲病了。他就带着两个儿子玛拿西和以法莲同去。
Now after these things Joseph was told, Your father is now sick. So he took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim.
48:2 有人告诉雅各说，请看，你儿子约瑟到你这里来了。以色列就勉强在床上坐起来。
And someone told Jacob and said, Your son Joseph is now coming to you. So Israel strengthened himself and sat up on his bed.
48:3 雅各对约瑟说，全足的神曾在迦南地的路斯向我显现，赐福与我，
And Jacob said to Joseph, The All-sufficient God appeared to me at Luz in the land of Canaan and blessed me.
48:4 对我说，我必使你繁衍增多，成为多族，又要把这地赐给你的后裔，永远为业。
And He said to me, Behold, I am going to make you fruitful and multiply you, and I will make of you a company of peoples and will give this land to your seed
after you for an everlasting possession.
48:5 我未到埃及见你之前，你在埃及地所生的两个儿子是我的；以法莲和玛拿西是我的，正如流便和西缅是我的一样。
And now your two sons, who were born to you in the land of Egypt before I came to you in Egypt, are mine; Ephraim and Manasseh will be mine, as Reuben and
Simeon are.
48:6 你在他们以后所生的就是你的，他们可以归于他们哥哥们的名下承继产业。
And your offspring whom you beget after them will be yours; they will be called by the name of their brothers in their inheritance.
48:7 至于我，我从巴旦来的时候，在迦南地的路上，离以法他还有一段路程，拉结在我悲痛中死了；我就把她葬在通往以法他的路旁(以法他就是伯利
恒。)
And as for me, when I came from Paddan, Rachel died to my sorrow in the land of Canaan on the way, while there was still some distance to go to Ephrath; and I
buried her there on the way to Ephrath (that is, Bethlehem).
48:8 以色列看见约瑟的两个儿子，就说，这两个是谁？
And when Israel saw Joseph's sons, he said, Who are these?
48:9 约瑟对他父亲说，他们是神在这里赐给我的儿子。以色列说，请你领他们到我跟前，我要给他们祝福。
And Joseph said to his father, They are my sons, whom God has given to me here. And he said, Bring them to me, that I may bless them.
48:10 以色列年纪老迈，眼睛昏花，不能看见；约瑟领他们挨近他，他就和他们亲嘴，抱着他们。
Now the eyes of Israel were dim with age, and he could not see. So Joseph brought them near to him, and he kissed them and embraced them.
48:11 以色列对约瑟说，我想不到得见你的面，不料，神又使我得见你的后裔。
53
And Israel said to Joseph, I never expected to see your face, and now God has let me see your seed also.
48:12 约瑟把两个儿子从以色列两膝中领出来，自己面伏于地下拜。
And Joseph brought them out from between his knees and bowed himself with his face to the ground.
48:13 随后约瑟又拉着他们两个，以法莲在他的右手里，对着以色列的左手；玛拿西在他的左手里，对着以色列的右手；领他们挨近以色列。
And Joseph took them both, Ephraim in his right hand toward Israel's left hand and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel's right hand, and brought them near
to him.
48:14 但以色列伸出右手来，按在以法莲的头上(以法莲乃是次子，)又剪搭过左手来，按在玛拿西的头上(玛拿西原是长子。)
But Israel stretched out his right hand and laid it upon Ephraim's head-although he was the younger-and his left hand upon Manasseh's head, guiding his
hands with insight, even though Manasseh was the firstborn.
48:15 他就给约瑟祝福说，愿我祖亚伯拉罕和我父以撒行事为人都在祂面前的神，就是一生牧养我直到今日的神，
And he blessed Joseph and said, The God before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac walked, The God who has shepherded me all my life to this day,
48:16 那救赎我脱离一切患难的使者，赐福与这两个少年人。愿他们归在我的名下，和我祖亚伯拉罕、我父以撒的名下。又愿他们在这地生养众多。
The Angel who has redeemed me from all evil, bless the boys; And may my name be named on them, and the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac; And
may they be a teeming multitude in the midst of the earth.
48:17 约瑟见他父亲把右手按在以法莲的头上，就不喜悦，便提起他父亲的手，要从以法莲的头上挪到玛拿西的头上。
And when Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand upon the head of Ephraim, it displeased him; and he took hold of his father's hand to remove it from
Ephraim's head onto Manasseh's head.
48:18 约瑟对他父亲说，我父，不是这样。这个才是长子，求你把右手按在他的头上。
And Joseph said to his father, Not so, my father, for this is the firstborn. Put your right hand upon his head.
48:19 他父亲不肯，说，我知道，我儿，我知道。他也必成为一族，也必昌大。只是他的弟弟将来比他还大；他弟弟的后裔必成为多族。
But his father refused and said, I know, my son, I know. He also will become a people, and he also will be great. However, his younger brother will become
greater than he, and his seed will become a multitude of nations.
48:20 当日以色列给他们祝福说，以色列人必指着你们祝福说，愿神使你如以法莲、玛拿西一样。于是立以法莲在玛拿西之前。
And he blessed them that day, saying, By you Israel will bless, saying, God make you like Ephraim and like Manasseh. Thus he set Ephraim before Manasseh.
48:21 以色列又对约瑟说，看哪，我快要死了，但神必与你们同在，领你们回到你们列祖之地。
And Israel said to Joseph, Now I am about to die, but God will be with you and will bring you again to the land of your fathers.
48:22 并且我从前用刀用弓，从亚摩利人手里夺取的那块地，我都赐给你，使你比众弟兄多得一分。
Moreover I have given to you one portion more than your brothers, which I took out of the hand of the Amorite with my sword and with my bow.
创世记 Genesis 第 49 章
49:1 雅各叫了他的儿子们来，说，你们都来聚集，我好把你们日后必遇的事告诉你们。
And Jacob called to his sons and said, Gather yourselves together that I may tell you what will happen to you in the last days.
49:2 雅各的儿子们哪，你们要聚集而听，听你们父亲以色列的话。
Assemble yourselves, and listen, O sons of Jacob; Yes, listen to Israel your father.
49:3 流便哪，你是我的长子，是我的能力，我强壮时首生的，本当尊荣居首，权力也居首。
Reuben, you are my firstborn, My might and the beginning of my strength, Preeminent in dignity and preeminent in power.
49:4 但你的情欲沸溢如水，你必不得居首；因为你上了你父亲的床，污秽了我的榻。
Boiling over like water, you will not have the preeminence, Because you went up to your father's bed; Then you defiled it-he went up to my couch.
49:5 西缅和利未是弟兄；他们的刀剑是强暴的器械。
Simeon and Levi are brothers; Weapons of violence are their swords.
49:6 我的魂哪，不要与他们共同商议；我的荣耀阿，不要与他们联合聚集；因为他们趁怒杀害人命，任意砍断牛腿大筋。
Come not into their council, O my soul; Be not united with their assembly, O my glory; For in their anger they slew men, And in their self-will they hamstrung oxen.
49:7 他们的怒气暴烈可咒，他们的忿恨残忍可诅；我必使他们分居在雅各家，散住在以色列地。
Cursed be their anger, for it is fierce; And their wrath, for it is cruel: I will divide them in Jacob, And scatter them in Israel.
49:8 犹大阿，你弟兄们必赞美你；你手必掐住仇敌的颈项；你父亲的儿子们必向你下拜。
Judah, your brothers will praise you; Your hand will be on the neck of your enemies; Your father's sons will bow down before you.
49:9 犹大是个小狮子；我儿阿，你抓了食便上山去。他蹲伏如公狮，又如母狮，谁敢惹他？
Judah is a young lion; From the prey, my son, you have gone up. He couches, he stretches out like a lion, And like a lioness; who will rouse him up?
49:10 权杖必不离犹大，王杖必不离他两脚之间，直到细罗来到，万民都必归顺。
The scepter will not depart from Judah, Nor the ruler's staff from between his feet, Until Shiloh comes, And to Him shall be the obedience of the peoples.
49:11 犹大把小驴拴在葡萄树上，把驴驹拴在美好的葡萄树上。他在葡萄酒中洗了衣服，在葡萄汁中洗了袍褂。
Binding his foal to the vine, And his donkey's colt to the choice vine, He washes his garment in wine, And his robe in the blood of grapes.
49:12 他的眼睛因酒红润；他的牙齿因奶白亮。
Dark are his eyes with wine, And white are his teeth with milk.
49:13 西布伦必住在海边，必成为停船的海口；他的境界必延到西顿。
Zebulun will dwell at the shore of the sea, And he will be a shore for ships, And his flank will be toward Sidon.
49:14 以萨迦是个强壮的驴，卧在羊圈之间。
Issachar is a strong donkey, Couching between the sheepfolds.
49:15 他看安息之处为佳，看那地为美，便低肩背重，成为服苦的仆人。
And he saw a resting place that was good And the land that was pleasant, And he bowed his shoulder to bear, And became a task worker to bring tribute.
49:16 但必判断他的民，作以色列支派之一。
Dan will judge his people, As one of the tribes of Israel.
49:17 但必作道上的蛇，路中的虺，咬伤马蹄，使骑马的向后坠落。
Dan will be a serpent in the way, A viper on the path, That bites the horse's heels, So that his rider falls backward.
49:18 耶和华阿，我向来等候你的救恩。
54
I have waited for Your salvation, O Jehovah.
49:19 迦得必被追击者追击，他却要追击他们的脚跟。
Gad, raiders will raid him, But he will raid at their heel.
49:20 亚设的食物丰美，他必出君王的美味。
Asher's food will be rich, And he will yield royal dainties.
49:21 拿弗他利是被释放的母鹿，他出嘉美的言语。
Naphtali is a hind let loose; He gives beautiful words.
49:22 约瑟是多结果子的树枝，是泉旁多结果子的枝子；他的枝条探出墙外。
Joseph is a fruitful bough, A fruitful bough by a fountain; His branches run over the wall.
49:23 弓箭手将他苦害，向他射箭，逼迫他。
The archers bitterly attacked him, And shot at him and harassed him;
49:24 但他的弓仍旧坚硬，他的手臂健壮敏捷；这是因雅各之大能者的手，那里有以色列的牧者，以色列的石头。
But his bow remained firm, And the arms of his hands were agile, By the hands of the Mighty One of Jacob-From there is the Shepherd, the stone of Israel -
49:25 你父亲的神必帮助你；那全足者必将天上所有的福，地下深渊所藏的福，以及生产乳养的福，都赐给你。
From the God of your father, who will help you, And from the All-sufficient One, who will bless you With blessings of heaven above, Blessings of the deep that lies
beneath, Blessings of the breasts and of the womb.
49:26 你父亲所祝的福，胜过我祖先所祝的福，直达到永世山岭的至极边界；这些福必降在约瑟的头上，临到那与他弟兄迥别之人的头顶。
The blessings of your father surpass The blessings of my ancestors To the utmost bound of the everlasting hills. They will be on the head of Joseph, And on the
crown of the head of the one who was separate from his brothers.
49:27 便雅悯是个撕掠的狼，早晨吃他所掠夺的，晚上分他所掳获的。
Benjamin is a ravenous wolf, In the morning devouring the prey And in the evening dividing the spoil.
49:28 这一切就是以色列的十二支派；这也是他们的父亲祝福他们时，对他们所说的话。他为他们所祝的福，都是按着各人的福分。
All these are the twelve tribes of Israel, and this is what their father spoke to them when he blessed them; he blessed them, each one according to his blessing.
49:29 他又嘱咐他们说，我将要归到我本民那里，你们要将我葬在赫人以弗仑田间的洞里，与我祖我父在一处，
And he charged them and said to them, I am being gathered to my people. Bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite,
49:30 就是在迦南地的幔利前、麦比拉田间的洞里；那洞和田是亚伯拉罕向赫人以弗仑买来为业，作坟地的。
In the cave that is in the field of Machpelah, which is before Mamre in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought along with the field from Ephron the Hittite for
the possession of a burial place -
49:31 他们在那里葬了亚伯拉罕和他的妻子撒拉，又在那里葬了以撒和他的妻子利百加；我也在那里葬了利亚。
There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife, there they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife, and there I buried Leah -
49:32 那块田和田间的洞，原是向赫人买的。
The field and the cave that is in it, purchased from the children of Heth.
49:33 雅各嘱咐众子完毕，就把脚收在床上，气绝而死，归到他本民那里去了。
And when Jacob had finished charging his sons, he gathered up his feet into the bed and expired, and he was gathered to his people.
创世记 Genesis 第 50 章
50:1 约瑟伏在他父亲的面上，为他哀哭，与他亲嘴。
Then Joseph fell upon his father's face and wept over him and kissed him.
50:2 约瑟吩咐伺候他的医生，用香料薰殓他父亲，医生就用香料薰殓了以色列。
And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his father. So the physicians embalmed Israel.
50:3 用香料薰殓的时间是四十天；那四十天满了，埃及人为他哀哭了七十天。
And forty days were spent for this, for this is the time to be spent for embalming. And the Egyptians wept for him seventy days.
50:4 为他哀哭的日子过了，约瑟对法老家中的人说，我若在你们眼前蒙恩，请你们报告法老说，
And when the days of weeping for him had passed, Joseph spoke to the house of Pharaoh, saying, If I have found favor in your eyes, please speak in the hearing
of Pharaoh, saying,
50:5 我父亲快要死的时候，叫我起誓说，你要将我葬在迦南地，在我为自己所掘的坟墓里。现在求你让我上去葬我父亲，以后我必回来。
My father made me swear, saying, Now I am about to die; in my grave which I dug for myself in the land of Canaan, there shall you bury me. Now therefore
please let me go up and bury my father; then I will return.
50:6 法老说，你可以上去，照着你父亲叫你起的誓，将他葬埋。
And Pharaoh said, Go up, and bury your father, as he made you swear.
50:7 于是约瑟上去葬他父亲；与他一同上去的，有法老的众臣仆，和法老家中的长老，并埃及地的众长老，
And Joseph went up to bury his father; and all the servants of Pharaoh went up with him, the elders of his house and all the elders of the land of Egypt,
50:8 还有约瑟的全家，和他的弟兄们，并他父亲的眷属；只有他们的妇人孩子，和羊群牛群，都留在歌珊地。
And all the house of Joseph and his brothers and his father's household; they left only their little ones and their flocks and their herds in the land of Goshen.
50:9 又有车辆马兵，和他一同上去；那一帮人甚多，
And chariots also went up with him, as well as horsemen; and it was a very great company.
50:10 他们到了约但河外亚达的禾场，就在那里大大的号啕痛哭；约瑟为他父亲哀哭了七天。
And they came to the threshing floor of Atad, which is beyond the Jordan, and they lamented there with a very great and grievous lamentation; and he observed
seven days of mourning for his father.
50:11 住在那地的迦南人，看见亚达禾场上的哀悼，就说，这是埃及人一场大的哀悼。因此那地方名叫亚伯麦西，是在约但河外。
And when the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the mourning at the threshing floor of Atad, they said, This is a grievous mourning for the Egyptians.
Therefore the name of it was called Abel-mizraim, which is beyond the Jordan.
50:12 雅各的儿子们，就遵着他们父亲所吩咐的，给他办了，
And thus his sons did to him as he commanded them;
50:13 把他搬到迦南地，葬在幔利前、麦比拉田间的洞里；那洞和田是亚伯拉罕向赫人以弗仑买来为业，作坟地的。
55
And his sons carried him into the land of Canaan and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah before Mamre, which Abraham had bought with the field
for a possession of a burial place from Ephron the Hittite.
50:14 约瑟葬了他父亲以后，就和众弟兄，并一切同他上去葬他父亲的人，都回埃及去了。
And after he had buried his father, Joseph returned into Egypt, he and his brothers and all who went up with him to bury his father.
50:15 约瑟的哥哥们见父亲死了，就说，或者约瑟会怀恨我们，照着我们从前待他一切的恶，足足的报复我们。
And when Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, What if Joseph bears a grudge against us and pays us back in full for all the evil which we
did to him?
50:16 他们就打发人去见约瑟，说，你父亲未死以前吩咐说，
And they sent a message to Joseph, saying, Your father charged before he died, saying,
50:17 你们要对约瑟这样说：从前你哥哥们恶待你，求你饶恕他们的过犯和罪。如今求你饶恕你父亲的神之仆人的过犯。他们对约瑟说这话，约瑟就哭了。
Thus shall you say to Joseph, Please forgive the transgression of your brothers and their sin, for they did you wrong. So now please forgive the transgression of
the servants of the God of your father. And Joseph wept when they spoke to him.
50:18 他的哥哥们又来俯伏在他面前，说，我们是你的仆人。
And his brothers also went and fell down before him and said, We are here as your servants.
50:19 约瑟对他们说，不要害怕，我岂能代替神呢？
And Joseph said to them, Do not be afraid, for am I in the place of God?
50:20 从前你们的意思是要害我，但神的意思原是好的，要使许多人存活，成就今日的光景。
Even though you intended evil against me, God intended it for good, to do as it is this day, to preserve alive a numerous people.
50:21 所以现在你们不要害怕，我必养活你们，和你们的妇人孩子。于是约瑟用亲切的话安慰他们。
Now therefore do not be afraid; I will sustain you and your little ones. And he comforted them and spoke kindly to them.
50:22 约瑟和他父亲的眷属，都住在埃及；约瑟活了一百一十岁。
And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he and his father's household; and Joseph lived one hundred ten years.
50:23 约瑟得见以法莲第三代的子孙。玛拿西之子玛吉的众子，也养在约瑟的膝上。
And Joseph saw Ephraim's children of the third generation; the children of Machir the son of Manasseh were also born on Joseph's knees.
50:24 约瑟对他弟兄们说，我快要死了，但神必眷顾你们，领你们出这地，上到祂起誓要赐给亚伯拉罕、以撒、雅各之地。
And Joseph said to his brothers, I am about to die, but God will surely visit you and bring you up out of this land to the land which He swore to Abraham, to Isaac,
and to Jacob.
50:25 约瑟叫以色列的子孙起誓，说，神必定看顾你们；你们要把我的骸骨从这里带上去。
And Joseph made the children of Israel swear, saying, God will surely visit you, and you shall bring my bones up from here.
50:26 约瑟死了，正一百一十岁。人用香料将他薰殓了，把他放在棺材里，停在埃及。
And Joseph died, being one hundred ten years old; and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt.
