58. 希伯来书 Hebrews
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 1 章
1:1 神既在古时，借着众申言者，多分多方向列祖说话，
God, having spoken of old in many portions and in many ways to the fathers in the prophets,
1:2 就在这末后的日子，在子里向我们说话；神已立祂作承受万有者，也曾借着祂造了宇宙；
Has at the last of these days spoken to us in the Son, whom He appointed Heir of all things, through whom also He made the universe;
1:3 祂是神荣耀的光辉，是神本质的印像，用祂大能的话维持、载着并推动万有；祂成就了洗罪的事，就坐在高处至尊至大者的右边；
Who, being the effulgence of His glory and the impress of His substance and upholding and bearing all things by the word of His power, having made
purification of sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high;
1:4 祂所承受的名，既比天使的名更超特，祂就比天使更美。
Having become as much better than the angels as to have inherited a more distinguished name than they.
1:5 神曾对那一个天使说过，“你是我的儿子，我今日生了你？”又说，“我要作祂的父，祂要作我的儿子？”
For to which of the angels has He ever said, "You are My Son; this day have I begotten You''? And again, "I will be a Father to Him, and He will be a Son to Me''?
1:6 再者，神再带长子到世上来的时候，就说，“神的众使者都要拜祂。”
And when He brings again the Firstborn into the inhabited earth, He says, "And let all the angels of God worship Him.''
1:7 论到使者，祂说，“神使祂的使者为风，并使祂的仆役为火焰。”
And of the angels He says, "Who makes His angels winds and His ministers a flame of fire'';
1:8 论到子却说，“神阿，你的宝座是永永远远的，你国的权杖是正直的权杖。
But of the Son, "Your throne, O God, is forever and ever, and the scepter of uprightness is the scepter of Your kingdom.
1:9 你爱公义，恨恶不法；所以神，就是你的神，用欢乐的油膏你，胜过膏你的同伙。”
You have loved righteousness and hated lawlessness; therefore God, Your God, has anointed You with the oil of exultant joy above Your partners'';
1:10 又说，“主阿，你起初立了地的根基，诸天也是你手的工作；
And, "You in the beginning, Lord, laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the works of Your hands;
1:11 天地都要灭没，你却长存；一切都要像衣服渐渐旧了，
They will perish, but You remain perpetually; and they all will become old like a garment,
1:12 你要将天地像外衣一样卷起来，天地就像衣服一样改变了；惟有你仍是一样，你的年数也没有穷尽。”
And like a mantle You will roll them up; like a garment they will also be changed; but You are the same, and Your years will not fail.''
1:13 神曾对那一个天使说过，“你坐在我的右边，等我使你的仇敌作你的脚凳？”
But to which of the angels has He ever said, "Sit at My right hand until I set Your enemies as a footstool for Your feet''?
1:14 天使岂不都是服役的灵，奉差遣为那些将要承受救恩的人效力么？
Are they not all ministering spirits, sent forth for service for the sake of those who are to inherit salvation?
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 2 章
2:1 所以，我们必须越发注重所听见的，恐怕我们随流漂去。
Therefore we ought to give heed more abundantly to the things which have been heard lest perhaps we drift away.
2:2 那借着天使所说的话，既是确定的，凡干犯、悖逆的，又都受了该受的报应；
For if the word spoken through angels proved firm and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense,
2:3 我们若忽略了这么大的救恩，怎能逃罪？这救恩起先是主亲自讲的，后来听见的人给我们证实了；
How shall we escape if we have neglected so great a salvation, which, having had its beginning in being spoken by the Lord, has been confirmed to us by those
who heard,
2:4 又有神按自己的旨意，用神迹、奇事、并各样的异能、以及圣灵分给的恩赐，同他们作见证。
God bearing witness with them both by signs and wonders and by various works of power and by distributions of the Holy Spirit according to His will?
2:5 我们所说要来的世界，神原没有交给天使管辖。
For it was not to angels that He subjected the coming inhabited earth, concerning which we speak.
2:6 但有人在经上某处郑重见证说，“人算什么，你竟顾念他？世人算什么，你竟眷顾他？
But one has solemnly testified somewhere, saying, "What is man, that You bring him to mind? Or the son of man, that You care for him?
2:7 你使祂比天使微小一点，赐祂荣耀尊贵为冠冕，并派祂管理你手所造的，
You have made Him a little inferior to the angels; You have crowned Him with glory and honor and have set Him over the works of Your hands;
2:8 叫万有都服在祂的脚下。”既叫万有都服祂，就没有留下一样不服祂的。只是如今我们还不见万有都服祂，
You have subjected all things under His feet.'' For in subjecting all things to Him, He left nothing unsubject to Him. But now we do not yet see all things subjected
to Him,
2:9 惟独看见耶稣得了荣耀尊贵为冠冕，祂为着受死的苦，成为比天使微小一点的，好叫祂因着神的恩，为样样尝到死味。
But we see Jesus, who was made a little inferior to the angels because of the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor, so that by the grace of God He
might taste death on behalf of everything.
2:10 原来万有因祂而有，藉祂而造的那位，为着要领许多的儿子进荣耀里去，就借着苦难成全他们救恩的创始者，这对祂本是合宜的。
For it was fitting for Him, for whom are all things and through whom are all things, in leading many sons into glory, to make the Author of their salvation perfect
through sufferings.
2:11 因那圣别人的，和那些被圣别的，都是出于一；因这缘故，祂称他们为弟兄，并不以为耻，说，
For both He who sanctifies and those who are being sanctified are all of One, for which cause He is not ashamed to call them brothers,
2:12 “我要向我的弟兄宣告你的名，在召会中我要歌颂你。”
Saying, "I will declare Your name to My brothers; in the midst of the church I will sing hymns of praise to You.''
2:13 又说，“我要信靠祂。”又说，“看哪，我与神所给我的儿女。”
And again, "I will trust in Him.'' And again, "Behold, I and the children whom God has given to Me.''
2:14 儿女既同有血肉之体，祂也照样亲自有分于血肉之体，为要借着死，废除那掌死权的，就是魔鬼，
Since therefore the children have shared in blood and flesh, He also Himself in like manner partook of the same, that through death He might destroy him who
has the might of death, that is, the devil,
2:15 并要释放那些一生因怕死而受挟于奴役的人。
And might release those who because of the fear of death through all their life were held in slavery.
2:16 诚然祂不是救援天使，乃是救援亚伯拉罕的后裔。
For assuredly it is not to angels that He gives help, but He gives help to the seed of Abraham.
2:17 所以祂凡事该与祂的弟兄一样，为要在关于神的事上，成为怜悯、忠信的大祭司，好为百姓的罪成就平息。
Hence He should have been made like His brothers in all things that He might become a merciful and faithful High Priest in the things pertaining to God, to make
propitiation for the sins of the people.
2:18 因为祂既然在所受的苦上被试诱，就能帮助被试诱的人。
For being tempted in that which He Himself has suffered, He is able to help those who are being tempted.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 3 章
3:1 所以，有分于属天呼召的圣别弟兄们，你们应当留意思想我们所承认为使徒、为大祭司的耶稣；
Therefore, holy brothers, partakers of a heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our confession, Jesus,
3:2 祂对那设立祂的忠信，如同摩西在神的全家忠信一样。
Who was faithful to Him who constituted Him, as also Moses was in all His house.
3:3 祂比摩西被断为配得更多的荣耀，就像建设房屋的比房屋更尊贵。
For He has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, by as much as He who built the house has more honor than the house.
3:4 因为每一座房屋都是由人建设的，但建设万有的乃是神。
For every house is built by someone, but He who built all things is God.
3:5 摩西为仆人，在神的全家忠信，为要给将来传讲的事作见证；
And Moses was faithful in all His house as a servant, for a testimony of the things to be spoken later;
3:6 但基督为儿子，治理神的家；我们若将因盼望而有的胆量和夸耀坚守到底，便是祂的家了。
But Christ was faithful as a Son over His house, whose house we are if indeed we hold fast the boldness and the boast of hope firm to the end.
3:7 所以，正如圣灵所说的，“你们今日若听见祂的声音，
Therefore, even as the Holy Spirit says, "Today if you hear His voice,
3:8 就不可硬着心，像在旷野惹祂发怒时，试探祂的日子一样；
Do not harden your hearts as in the provocation, in the day of trial in the wilderness,
3:9 在那里你们的祖宗以试验试探我，并且观看我的作为四十年。
Where your fathers tried Me by testing Me and saw My works for forty years.
3:10 所以我厌烦那一代的人，说，他们心里时常迷糊，竟不晓得我的法则；
Therefore I was displeased with this generation, and I said, They always go astray in their heart, and they have not known My ways;
3:11 我就在怒中起誓说，他们绝不可进入我的安息。”
As I swore in My wrath, They shall not enter into My rest!''
3:12 弟兄们，你们要谨慎，免得你们中间，或有人存着不信的恶心，将活神离弃了。
Beware, brothers, lest perhaps there be in any one of you an evil heart of unbelief in falling away from the living God.
3:13 总要趁着还有称为“今日”的时候，天天彼此相劝，免得你们中间有人被罪迷惑，心就刚硬了。
But exhort one another each day, as long as it is called "today,'' lest any one of you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin.
3:14 “你们今日若听见祂的声音，就不可硬着心，像惹祂发怒的时候一样。”当这话还在说的时候，
For we have become partners of Christ, if indeed we hold fast the beginning of the assurance firm to the end,
3:15 我们若将起初的确信坚守到底，就必作基督的同伙了。
While it is said, "Today if you hear His voice, do not harden your hearts as in the provocation.''
3:16 原来那听见而惹祂发怒的是谁？岂不是那些借着摩西从埃及出来的众人么？
For who provoked Him when they heard? Indeed was it not all who came out of Egypt by Moses?
3:17 神四十年之久，又厌烦了谁？岂不是那些犯罪，尸首倒在旷野的人么？
And with whom was He displeased for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose carcasses fell in the wilderness?
3:18 又向谁起誓说，他们必不得进入祂的安息？岂不是向那些不信从的人么？
And to whom did He swear that they should not enter into His rest, except to the disobedient?
3:19 这样我们看出，他们不能进入，是因为不信的缘故了。
And we see that they were not able to enter in because of unbelief.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 4 章
4:1 所以，我们应当畏惧，免得那进入祂安息的应许，虽然留给我们，你们中间却有人像是赶不上了。
Let us fear therefore, lest, a promise being left of entering into His rest, any one of you may seem to have come short of it.
4:2 因为有福音传给我们，像传给他们一样；只是所听见的话与他们无益，因为这话在听见的人里面，没有与信心调和。
For indeed we have had the good news announced to us, even as they also; but the word heard did not profit them, not being mixed together with faith in those
who heard.
4:3 但我们已经相信的人，却进入那安息，正如神所说，“我就在怒中起誓，他们绝不可进入我的安息。”其实造物之工，从创世以来已经完成了。
For we who have believed enter into the rest, even as He has said, "As I swore in My wrath, They shall not enter into My rest!'' although the works of creation
were completed from the foundation of the world.
4:4 因为论到第七日，祂在某处这样说，“到第七日，神就歇了祂一切的工，”
For He has spoken somewhere concerning the seventh day thus, "And God rested on the seventh day from all His works.''
4:5 而在这里又说，“他们绝不可进入我的安息。”
And in this place again, "They shall not enter into My rest!''
4:6 这样，这安息既留下给一些人进入，而那先前有福音传给他们的人，因为不信从，不得进入，
Since therefore it remains that some should enter into it and those who formerly had the good news announced to them did not enter because of disobedience,
4:7 神就再指定一个日子，就是过了这么长的时间，在大卫书上所说的今日，正如祂前面所说的：“你们今日若听见祂的声音，就不可硬着心。”
He again designates a certain day, today, saying in David after so long a time, even as He has said before, "Today, if you hear His voice, do not harden your
hearts.''
4:8 若是约书亚已经使他们得了安息，此后神就不会提起别的日子了。
For if Joshua had brought them into rest, He would not have spoken concerning another day after these things.
4:9 这样，必有一安息日的安息，为神的子民存留。
So then there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God.
4:10 因为那进入祂安息的，也歇了自己的工，正如神歇了自己的工一样。
For he who has entered into His rest has himself also rested from his works, as God did from His own.
4:11 所以我们务必竭力进入那安息，免得有人随着那不信从的样子跌倒了。
Let us therefore be diligent to enter into that rest lest anyone fall after the same example of disobedience.
4:12 因为神的话是活的，是有功效的，比一切两刃的剑更锋利，能以刺入、甚至剖开魂与灵，骨节与骨髓，连心中的思念和主意都能辨明。
For the word of God is living and operative and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing even to the dividing of soul and spirit and of joints and marrow,
and able to discern the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
4:13 并且被造的，没有一个在祂面前不是显明的，反而万有在我们必须向祂交账的主眼前，都是赤露敞开的。
And there is no creature that is not manifest before Him, but all things are naked and laid bare to the eyes of Him to whom we are to give our account.
4:14 所以，我们既有一位经过了诸天，尊大的大祭司，就是神的儿子耶稣，便当坚守所承认的。
Having therefore a great High Priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast the confession.
4:15 因我们并非有一位不能同情我们软弱的大祭司，祂乃是在各方面受过试诱，与我们一样，只是没有罪。
For we do not have a High Priest who cannot be touched with the feeling of our weaknesses, but One who has been tempted in all respects like us, yet without
sin.
4:16 所以我们只管坦然无惧的来到施恩的宝座前，为要受怜悯，得恩典，作应时的帮助。
Let us therefore come forward with boldness to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find grace for timely help.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 5 章
5:1 凡从人间选取的大祭司，都是被设立替人办理关于神的事，为要献上礼物和为着罪的祭物。
For every high priest, being taken from among men, is established on behalf of men in the things pertaining to God that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for
sins.
5:2 他能体谅那无知和失迷的，因为他自己也为软弱所困；
He is able to exercise compassion toward the ignorant and erring since he also is encompassed with weakness;
5:3 因此，他怎样为百姓为着罪献祭，也应当照样为自己献祭。
And because of it, he ought, even as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins.
5:4 这大祭司的尊贵，不是人自取的，乃是人蒙神呼召所得的，像亚伦一样。
And no one takes the honor upon himself, but only as he is called by God, just as Aaron also was.
5:5 这样，基督也不是自取荣耀作大祭司，乃是那向祂说“你是我的儿子，我今日生了你”的，荣耀了祂；
So also Christ did not glorify Himself in becoming a High Priest, but it was He who said to Him, "You are My Son; this day have I begotten You'';
5:6 就如神在另一处又说，“你是照着麦基洗德的等次，永远为祭司。”
Even as also in another place He says, "You are a Priest forever according to the order of Melchisedec.''
5:7 基督在肉身的日子，强烈的哭号，流泪向那能救祂出死的，献上祈祷和恳求，因祂的虔诚，就蒙了垂听；
This One, in the days of His flesh, having offered up both petitions and supplications with strong crying and tears to Him who was able to save Him out of death
and having been heard because of His piety,
5:8 祂虽然为儿子，还是因所受的苦难学了顺从；
Even though He was a Son, learned obedience from the things which He suffered.
5:9 祂既得以成全，就对凡顺从祂的人，成了永远救恩的根源，
And having been perfected, He became to all those who obey Him the source of eternal salvation,
5:10 蒙神照着麦基洗德的等次，称为大祭司。
Being addressed by God as a High Priest according to the order of Melchisedec;
5:11 关于麦基洗德，我们有许多话要说，且是难以解明的，因为你们听觉迟钝。
Concerning whom we have much to say that is also difficult to interpret since you have become dull of hearing.
5:12 按时间说，你们该作教师；可是你们还需要有人将神谕言开端的要纲教导你们；并且成了那必须用奶，不能吃干粮的人。
For when because of the time you ought to be teachers, you have need again for someone to teach you what the rudiments of the beginning of the oracles of
God are and have become those who have need of milk and not of solid food.
5:13 凡只能享用奶的，对公义的话都是没有经验的，因为他是婴孩；
For everyone who partakes of milk is inexperienced in the word of righteousness, for he is an infant;
5:14 只有长成的人，才能吃干粮，他们的官能因习用而受了操练，就能分辨好坏了。
But solid food is for the full-grown, who because of practice have their faculties exercised for discriminating between both good and evil.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 6 章
6:1 所以，我们既离开了那论到基督之开端的话，就当竭力前进，达到完全、成熟，不再立根基，就是悔改脱开死行，信靠神，
Therefore leaving the word of the beginning of Christ, let us be brought on to maturity, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith
in God,
6:2 浸洗的教训，按手，死人的复活，以及永远的审判。
Of the teaching of baptisms and of the laying on of hands, of the resurrection of the dead and of eternal judgment.
6:3 神若准许，我们必如此行。
And this we will do if God permits.
6:4 因为那些曾经蒙了光照，尝过属天的恩赐，又有分于圣灵，
For it is impossible for those who have once been enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift and have become partakers of the Holy Spirit
6:5 并尝过神美善的话，以及来世的能力，
And have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come,
6:6 而偏离的人，不可能再重新悔改，为自己把神的儿子重钉十字架，明明的羞辱祂。
And yet have fallen away, to renew themselves again unto repentance, crucifying again for themselves the Son of God and putting Him to open shame.
6:7 就如田地，吸收了屡次下在其上的雨水，并且生产菜蔬，合乎耕种的人用，就从神得享祝福；
For the earth, which drinks the rain which often comes upon it and produces vegetation suitable to those for whose sake also it is cultivated, partakes of blessing
from God.
6:8 但若长出荆棘和蒺藜，就被废弃，近于咒诅，结局就是焚烧。
But if it brings forth thorns and thistles, it is disapproved and near a curse, whose end is to be burned.
6:9 然而，亲爱的，我们虽是这样说，却深信你们的光景强过这些，且都是联于救恩的。
But we are persuaded of better things concerning you, beloved, and things which belong to salvation, though we speak thus.
6:10 因为神并非不公义，竟忘记你们所作的工，和你们为着祂的名所显出的爱，就是先前供应圣徒，如今还是供应。
For God is not unrighteous, so as to forget your work and the love which you have shown toward His name in having ministered to the saints and in ministering
still.
6:11 只是我们切愿你们各人都显出同样的殷勤，以致对你们所盼望的有充分的确信，一直到底；
But we desire earnestly that each of you show the same diligence unto the full assurance of our hope until the end,
6:12 使你们不怠惰，反倒效法那些借着信和恒忍承受应许的人。
That you may not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and long-suffering are inheriting the promises.
6:13 神应许亚伯拉罕的时候，因为没有比自己更大的可以指着起誓，就指着自己起誓，说，
For God, when He made the promise to Abraham, since He could swear by no one greater, swore by Himself,
6:14 “保定的，论福，我必赐福给你；论繁增，我必使你繁增。”
Saying, "Surely blessing, I will bless you; and multiplying, I will multiply you.''
6:15 这样，亚伯拉罕既恒久忍耐，就得了所应许的。
And thus when Abraham had patiently endured, he obtained the promise.
6:16 人都是指着比自己大的起誓，而起誓乃是人各样争论的了结，作为保证。
For men swear by the greater, and for all disputes among them an oath is final for confirmation.
6:17 这样，神既愿意向那承受应许的人，格外显明祂的旨意是不更改的，就介入以起誓担保；
Therefore God, intending to show more abundantly to the heirs of the promise the unchangeableness of His counsel, interposed with an oath,
6:18 好藉这两件不更改的事，就是神在其中不能说谎的，叫我们这逃往避难所，持定摆在前头盼望的人，可以得着有力的鼓励；
In order that by two unchangeable things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we may have strong encouragement, we who have fled for refuge to lay hold
of the hope set before us,
6:19 我们有这盼望如同魂的锚，又牢靠又坚固，且通入幔内；
Which we have as an anchor of the soul, both secure and firm and which enters within the veil,
6:20 作先锋的耶稣，既照着麦基洗德的等次，成了永远的大祭司，就为我们进入幔内。
Where the Forerunner, Jesus, has entered for us, having become forever a High Priest according to the order of Melchisedec.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 7 章
7:1 这麦基洗德，撒冷王，至高神的祭司，就是那当亚伯拉罕杀败诸王回来的时候，迎接他，并给他祝福的。
For this Melchisedec, king of Salem, priest of the Most High God, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him,
7:2 亚伯拉罕也将所得的一切，分了十分之一给他。首先，他的名字翻出来是公义王；其次，他又是撒冷王，就是平安王。
To whom also Abraham apportioned a tenth part of all; first being interpreted king of righteousness, and then also king of Salem, which is king of peace;
7:3 他无父，无母，无族谱，既无时日之始，也无生命之终，乃与神的儿子相似，是永久为祭司的。
Being without father, without mother, without genealogy; having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but likened to the Son of God, abides a priest
perpetually.
7:4 你们要想想，先祖亚伯拉罕把上等掳物中的十分之一给他，这人是何等尊大！
And consider how great this one was, to whom the patriarch Abraham gave a tenth of the choice spoils.
7:5 那些领受祭司职任的利未子孙，奉命照着律法从百姓，就是从他们的弟兄，收取十分之一，尽管他们的弟兄是从亚伯拉罕腰中出来的；
And they of the sons of Levi, who received the priestly service, have a commandment to take tithes from the people according to the law, that is, from their
brothers, though they have come forth from the loins of Abraham.
7:6 但那不与他们同谱系的，倒收取亚伯拉罕的十分之一，并为那蒙受应许的祝福。
But he whose genealogy is not counted from them has taken tithes from Abraham and has blessed him who has the promises.
7:7 向来都是卑小的蒙尊优的祝福，这是一无可驳的。
But without any dispute the lesser is blessed by the greater.
7:8 在这里，收取十分之一的，是必死的人；在那里，却是那被证实为活着的。
And here men, who die, receive tithes; but there, one of whom it is testified that he lives.
7:9 并且可以这样说，那收取十分之一的利未，也是借着亚伯拉罕纳了十分之一；
And, so to speak, through Abraham, Levi also, he who receives tithes, has been made to pay tithes,
7:10 因为麦基洗德迎接亚伯拉罕的时候，利未还在他祖宗的腰中。
For he was still in the loins of his father when Melchisedec met him.
7:11 这样，借着利未人的祭司职分，若真能使人得完全，（百姓原是根据这职分领受了律法，）又何需另外兴起一位祭司，照着麦基洗德的等次，不照着
亚伦的等次来称谓？
If indeed then perfection were through the Levitical priesthood (for under it the people have received the law), what need was there still that a different Priest
should arise according to the order of Melchisedec and that He should not be said to be according to the order of Aaron?
7:12 祭司的职分既已更换，律法也必须更换。
For since the priesthood is transferred, of necessity there comes into being a transfer of law also.
7:13 因为这些话所说到的人，原有分于别的支派，那支派里没有一人伺候过祭坛。
For He of whom these things are said belongs to a different tribe, from which no one has attended to the altar.
7:14 我们的主明显是从犹大支派出来的；论到这支派，摩西并没有讲到祭司的事。
For it is evident that our Lord has risen out of Judah, concerning which tribe Moses spoke nothing about priests.
7:15 既然照麦基洗德的样式，兴起一位不同的祭司来，我们的话就更是显然的了；
And it is still more abundantly evident since it is according to the likeness of Melchisedec that a different Priest arises,
7:16 祂成了祭司，不是照着属肉之诫命的律法，乃是照着不能毁坏之生命的大能；
Who has been appointed not according to the law of a fleshy commandment but according to the power of an indestructible life.
7:17 因为有为祂作见证的说，“你是照着麦基洗德的等次，永远为祭司。”
For it is testified, "You are a Priest forever according to the order of Melchisedec.''
7:18 一面是先前的诫命，因其软弱和无益，而被废掉，
For there is, on the one hand, the setting aside of the preceding commandment because of its weakness and unprofitableness
7:19 （律法原来一无所成，）另一面却在其上引进更美的盼望，藉此我们可以亲近神。
(For the law perfected nothing), and, on the other hand, the bringing in thereupon of a better hope, through which we draw near to God.
7:20 再者，耶稣为祭司，既不是不起誓立的，
And inasmuch as He was not made a Priest without the taking of an oath
7:21 （那些人为祭司，原不是起誓立的，耶稣却是起誓立的，是借着那对祂说，“主起了誓绝不后悔，你是永远为祭司”的，）
(For they are appointed priests without the taking of an oath, but He, with the taking of an oath by Him who said to Him, "The Lord has sworn and will not regret it,
You are a Priest forever''),
7:22 祂就成了更美之约的保证。
By so much Jesus has also become the surety of a better covenant.
7:23 那些为祭司的，人数众多，是因为有死拦阻，不能长久；
And they are appointed priests many in number because death prevents them from continuing;
7:24 但耶稣既是永远长存的，祂就有不能更换的祭司职分。
But He, because He abides forever, has His priesthood unalterable.
7:25 所以，那借着祂来到神面前的人，祂都能拯救到底；因为祂是长远活着，为他们代求。
Hence also He is able to save to the uttermost those who come forward to God through Him, since He lives always to intercede for them.
7:26 像这样圣而无邪恶、无玷污、与罪人分别，并且高过诸天的大祭司，原是与我们合宜的；
For such a High Priest was also fitting to us, holy, guileless, undefiled, separated from sinners and having become higher than the heavens,
7:27 祂不像那些大祭司，每天必须先为自己的罪，再为百姓的罪献上祭物，因为祂献上自己，就把这事一次永远的作成了。
Who does not have daily need, as the high priests do, to offer up sacrifices first for his own sins and then for those of the people; for this He did once for all when
He offered up Himself.
7:28 律法本是立软弱的人为大祭司，但在律法以后所起誓的话，却是立儿子为大祭司，乃是成全直到永远的。
For the law establishes men as high priests who have weakness, but the word of the oath, which was after the law, establishes the Son, perfected forever.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 8 章
8:1 我们所讲之事的要点，就是我们有这样的大祭司，祂已经坐在诸天之上至尊至大者宝座的右边，
Now in the things which are being said the chief point is this: We have such a High Priest, who sat down on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the
heavens,
8:2 作了圣所，就是真帐幕的执事；这帐幕是主所支的，不是人所支的。
A Minister of the holy places, even of the true tabernacle, which the Lord pitched, not man.
8:3 凡大祭司都是为献礼物和祭物设立的，所以这一位也必须有所献的。
For every high priest is established for the offering of both gifts and sacrifices; hence it is necessary that this One also have something which He may offer.
8:4 因此祂若在地上，必不得作祭司，因为已经有照律法献礼物的祭司；
Now then if He were on earth, He would not be a Priest at all, there being those who offer the gifts according to the law,
8:5 他们的事奉，乃是天上事物的样本和影儿，正如摩西将要完成帐幕的时候，蒙神指示他说，“你要谨慎，照着在山上所指示你的模型，作各样的物
件。”
Who serve the example and shadow of the heavenly things, even as Moses was divinely instructed when he was about to complete the tabernacle; for, "See,'' He
said, "that you make all things according to the pattern that was shown to you in the mountain.''
8:6 但如今耶稣已经得着更超特的职任，正如祂也是更美之约的中保；这约是凭更美的应许立定为法的。
But now He has obtained a more excellent ministry inasmuch as He is also the Mediator of a better covenant, which has been enacted upon better promises.
8:7 原来那第一约若没有瑕疵，就没有寻求第二约的必要了。
For if that first covenant had been faultless, no place would have been sought for a second.
8:8 但神既找出祂百姓的瑕疵，就说，“看哪，日子将到，主说，我要与以色列家和犹大家，立定新约，
For finding fault with them He says, "Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, and I will consummate a new covenant upon the house of Israel and upon the
house of Judah,
8:9 不是照着我拉他们祖宗的手，领他们出埃及地的日子，与他们所立的约；因为他们没有恒守我的约，我也不理他们；这是主说的。
Not according to the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by their hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, because they did
not continue in My covenant, and I disregarded them, says the Lord.
8:10 主又说，因为这是那些日子以后，我要与以色列家所立的约：我要将我的律法赐在他们心思里，并且将这些律法写在他们心上；我要作他们的神，他
们要作我的子民。
For this is the covenant which I will covenant with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord: I will impart My laws into their mind, and on their hearts I will
inscribe them; and I will be God to them, and they will be a people to Me.
8:11 他们各人绝不用教导自己同国之民，各人也绝不用教导自己的弟兄，说，你该认识主；因为他们从最小的到至大的，都必认识我；
And they shall by no means each teach his fellow citizen and each his brother, saying, Know the Lord; for all will know Me from the little one to the great one
among them.
8:12 因为我要宽恕他们的不义，绝不再记念他们的罪。”
For I will be propitious to their unrighteousnesses, and their sins I shall by no means remember anymore.''
8:13 既说新约，就以第一约为旧了。但那渐渐陈旧并衰老的，就快要消逝了。
In saying, A new covenant, He has made the first old. But that which is becoming old and growing decrepit is near to disappearing.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 9 章
9:1 这样，第一约的确有敬拜的章则，和属世界的圣幕。
Now then the first covenant also had ordinances of service, and its sanctuary was of this world.
9:2 因为有预备好的帐幕，头一层叫作圣所，里面有灯台、桌子和陈设饼；
For a tabernacle was prepared, the first, in which were the lampstand and the table and the loaves that were set forth, which is called the Holy Place;
9:3 第二幔子后，还有一层帐幕，叫作至圣所，
And after the second veil, a tabernacle, which is called the Holy of Holies,
9:4 有金香坛，和四面包金的约柜，柜里有盛吗哪的金罐、和亚伦发过芽的杖、并两块约版；
Having a golden altar and the ark of the covenant covered about everywhere with gold, in which were the golden pot that had the manna and Aaron's rod that
budded and the tablets of the covenant,
9:5 柜上面有荣耀的基路伯覆荫着平息处；关于这几件，现在不能一一细说。
And above it cherubim of glory overshadowing the propitiation place, concerning which it is not now the time to speak in detail.
9:6 这些物件都这样预备好了，众祭司就常常进入头一层帐幕，完成敬拜；
Now these things having been thus prepared, into the first tabernacle the priests enter continually, accomplishing their worship;
9:7 至于第二层帐幕，只有大祭司一年一次独自进去，没有不带着血，为自己和百姓误犯的罪献上的；
But into the second, only the high priest enters, once a year and not without blood, which he offers for himself and for the sins of ignorance of the people,
9:8 圣灵如此指明，当头一层帐幕仍然存立的时候，至圣所的路还未显明；
The Holy Spirit thus making this clear, that the way of the Holy of Holies has not yet been manifested while the first tabernacle still has its standing,
9:9 那头一层帐幕作现今时期的一个象征，按这象征所献的礼物和祭物，就着良心说，都不能叫敬拜的人得以完全；
Which is a figure for the present time. According to this tabernacle both gifts and sacrifices are offered, which are unable to perfect, according to conscience, him
who worships,
9:10 这些不过是在于饮食和各样的浸洗，都是属肉体的章则，制定到更正的时期。
Consisting only of foods and drinks and various washings, being ordinances of the flesh, imposed until the time of setting things right.
9:11 但基督已经来到，作了那已经实现之美事的大祭司，经过那更大、更全备的帐幕，不是人手所造的，就是不属这受造世界的；
But Christ, having come as a High Priest of the good things that have come into being, through the greater and more perfect tabernacle not made by hands, that
is, not of this creation,
9:12 并且不是借着山羊和牛犊的血，乃是借着祂自己的血，一次永远的进入至圣所，便得到了永远的救赎。
And not through the blood of goats and calves but through His own blood, entered once for all into the Holy of Holies, obtaining an eternal redemption.
9:13 若山羊和公牛的血，并母牛犊的灰，洒在污秽的人身上，尚且使人圣别，以致人的肉身得着洁净，
For if the blood of goats and bulls and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling those who are defiled sanctify to the purity of the flesh,
9:14 何况基督借着永远的灵，将自己无瑕无疵的献给神，祂的血岂不更洁净我们的良心，使其脱离死行，叫我们事奉活神么？
How much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered Himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve
the living God?
9:15 所以，祂作了新约的中保，既然受死，赎了人在第一约之下的过犯，便叫蒙召之人得着所应许永远的产业。
And because of this He is the Mediator of a new covenant, so that, death having taken place for redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant, those
who have been called might receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
9:16 凡有遗命，立遗命者的死必须证实出来；
For where there is a testament, the death of him who made the testament must of necessity be established.
9:17 因为留遗命的人死了，遗命才得确定；立遗命的人还活着的时候，遗命是没有效力的。
For a testament is confirmed in the case of the dead, since it never has force when he who made the testament is living.
9:18 所以第一约也不是不用血创立的。
Hence neither was the first covenant initiated without blood;
9:19 因为各条诫命既由摩西照着律法，向众百姓讲过了，他就拿牛犊和山羊的血，用水和朱红色绒并牛膝草，洒在那约书上，并众百姓身上，说，
For when every commandment according to the law had been spoken by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of the calves and the goats, with water and
scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the scroll of the covenant itself and all the people,
9:20 “这就是神与你们所立之约的血。”
Saying, "This is the blood of the covenant which God has commanded to you.''
9:21 他又照样把血洒在帐幕和一切敬拜用的器皿上。
And both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the service he sprinkled in like manner with the blood.
9:22 按着律法，凡物差不多都是用血洁净的，没有流血，就没有赦罪。
And almost all things are purified by blood according to the law, and without shedding of blood there is no forgiveness.
9:23 所以，诸天上之物的样本，必须用这些祭物去洁净；但那天上之物的本身，必须用比这些更美的祭物去洁净。
It was necessary therefore for the examples of the things in the heavens to be purified by these, but the heavenly things themselves, by better sacrifices than
these.
9:24 因为基督并不是进入人手所造的圣所，那不过是真圣所的复本，乃是进入了天的本身，如今为我们显在神面前；
For Christ did not enter into a holy place made by hands, a figure of the true, but into heaven itself, to appear now before the face of God for us;
9:25 祂也不是多次将自己献上，像那大祭司每年带着牛羊的血进入至圣所；
Nor in order that He might offer Himself often, just as the high priest enters into the Holy of Holies year by year by the blood of other creatures;
9:26 如果这样，从创世以来，祂就必须多次受苦了；但如今祂在诸世代的终结显明了一次，好借着献上自己为祭，把罪除掉。
Since then He would have had to suffer often since the foundation of the world. But now once at the consummation of the ages He has been manifested for the
putting away of sin through the sacrifice of Himself.
9:27 按着定命，人人都有一死，死后且有审判；
And inasmuch as it is reserved for men to die once, and after this comes judgment,
9:28 基督也是这样，既一次被献，担当了多人的罪，将来还要向那热切等待祂的人第二次显现，并与罪无关，乃为拯救他们。
So Christ also, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time to those who eagerly await Him, apart from sin, unto salvation.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 10 章
10:1 律法有要来美事的影儿，没有本物的形像，总不能借着每年不断献上的同样祭物，叫那些进前来的人得到完全。
For the law, having a shadow of the good things to come, not the image itself of the things, can never by the same sacrifices year by year, which they offer
continually, perfect those who draw near.
10:2 不然，敬拜的人既一次得了洁净，良心不再觉得有罪，献祭的事岂不就已停止了么？
Otherwise would they not have ceased to be offered, because those worshipping, having once been purified, would have no longer had the consciousness of
sins?
10:3 但那些祭物使人每年想起罪来；
But in those sacrifices there is a bringing to mind of sins year by year;
10:4 因为公牛和山羊的血是不能除罪的。
For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins.
10:5 所以基督到世上来的时候，就说，“祭物和供物是你不愿要的，你却为我预备了身体；
Therefore, coming into the world, He says, "Sacrifice and offering You did not desire, but a body You have prepared for Me.
10:6 燔祭和赎罪祭是你不喜悦的；
In burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin You did not delight.
10:7 于是我说，看哪，我来了，神阿，是要实行你的旨意。（我的事经卷上已经记载了。）”
Then I said, Behold, I have come (in the roll of the book it is written concerning Me) to do Your will, O God.''
10:8 以上说，“祭物和供物，燔祭和赎罪祭，是你不愿要的，也是你不喜悦的。”（这些都是按着律法献的。）
Saying above, "Sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin You did not desire nor delight in'' (which are offered according to the law),
10:9 后来又说，“看哪，我来了，是要实行你的旨意。”可见祂除去那先有的，为要立定那后来的；
He then has said, "Behold, I have come to do Your will.'' He takes away the first that He may establish the second,
10:10 我们凭这旨意，藉耶稣基督一次永远的献上身体，就得以圣别。
By which will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
10:11 再者，凡祭司都是天天站着供职，屡次献上同样永不能除罪的祭物。
And every priest stands daily, ministering and offering often the same sacrifices, which can never remove sins;
10:12 惟独这一位既为罪一次献上祭物，就永久在神的右边坐下了；
But this One, having offered one sacrifice for sins, sat down forever on the right hand of God,
10:13 从此等候祂的仇敌，放在祂的脚下作脚凳。
Henceforth waiting until His enemies are made the footstool for His feet.
10:14 因为祂一次献祭，便叫那些得以圣别的人永久完全。
For by one offering He has perfected forever those who are being sanctified.
10:15 圣灵也对我们作见证，因为祂说过，
And the Holy Spirit also testifies to us, for after having said,
10:16 “主说，这是那些日子以后，我要与他们所立的约：我要将我的律法赐在他们心里，并且将这些律法写在他们心思里。”
"This is the covenant which I will covenant with them after those days, says the Lord: I will impart My laws upon their hearts, and upon their mind I will inscribe
them,''
10:17 以后又说，“我绝不再记念他们的罪和不法。”
He then says, "And their sins and their lawlessnesses I shall by no means remember anymore.''
10:18 这些罪既都蒙了赦免，就不用再为罪献祭了。
Now where forgiveness of these is, there is no longer an offering for sin.
10:19 弟兄们，我们既因耶稣的血，得以坦然进入至圣所，
Having therefore, brothers, boldness for entering the Holy of Holies in the blood of Jesus,
10:20 是借着祂给我们开创了一条又新又活的路，从幔子经过，这幔子就是祂的肉体，
Which entrance He initiated for us as a new and living way through the veil, that is, His flesh,
10:21 又有一位尊大的祭司治理神的家，
And having a great Priest over the house of God,
10:22 并且在心一面，我们已经被基督的血洒过，脱开了邪恶的良心，在身体一面，也已经用清水洗净了，就当存着真诚的心，以十分确信的信，前来进
入至圣所；
Let us come forward to the Holy of Holies with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and having our bodies
washed with pure water.
10:23 又当坚守我们所承认的盼望，不至摇动，因为那应许我们的是信实的；
Let us hold fast the confession of our hope unwavering, for He who has promised is faithful;
10:24 且当彼此相顾，激发爱心，勉励行善；
And let us consider one another so as to incite one another to love and good works,
10:25 不可放弃我们自己的聚集，好像有些人习惯了一样，倒要彼此劝勉；既看见那日子临近，就更当如此。
Not abandoning our own assembling together, as the custom with some is, but exhorting one another; and so much the more as you see the day drawing near.
10:26 因为我们认识了真理之后，还故意犯罪，为着罪的牛羊祭物是不再有的了；
For when we sin willfully after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice of bulls and goats for sins,
10:27 惟有恐惧等候审判、和那将要吞灭众敌人的烈火。
But a certain fearful expectation of judgment and fervor of fire, which is to consume the adversaries.
10:28 任何人干犯摩西的律法，凭两三个见证人，尚且不得怜恤而死，
Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses dies without compassion on the testimony of two or three witnesses.
10:29 何况那践踏神的儿子，将他藉以成圣的立约之血当作俗物，又亵慢恩典之灵的，你们想，他该受怎样更重的刑罚？
By how much do you think he will be thought worthy of worse punishment who has trampled underfoot the Son of God and has considered the blood of the
covenant by which he was sanctified a common thing and has insulted the Spirit of grace?
10:30 因为我们知道谁曾说，“伸冤在我，我必报应。”又说，“主要审判祂的百姓。”
For we know Him who said, "Vengeance is Mine; I will repay''; and again, "The Lord will judge His people.''
10:31 落在活神的手里是可怕的。
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
10:32 然而你们要回想往日，那时你们蒙了光照，就忍受了各样苦难中的大争战；
But call to mind the former days, in which, having been enlightened, you endured a great conflict of sufferings;
10:33 一面被辱骂，遭患难，成了给众人观看的一台戏；一面作了那些受如此对待之人的同伴。
On one hand, being made a spectacle both in reproaches and in afflictions, and on the other, having become partakers with those who are treated the same.
10:34 因为你们同情了那些被捆锁的人，并且你们的家业被抢夺，你们也欢喜接受，知道自己有更美长存的家业。
For you both sympathized with those in bonds and accepted with joy the plundering of your possessions, knowing that you yourselves have a better possession
and one that abides.
10:35 所以不可丢弃你们的胆量；这胆量是会得大赏赐的。
Do not cast away therefore your boldness, which has great reward.
10:36 你们所需要的乃是忍耐，使你们行完了神的旨意，就可以得着所应许的。
For you have need of endurance in order that, having done the will of God, you may obtain the promise.
10:37 “因为还有一点点时候，那要来的就来，并不迟延。
"For in yet a very little while the Coming One will come and will not delay.
10:38 只是我的义人必本于信活着；他若退缩，我的心就不喜悦他。”
But My righteous one shall live by faith; and if he shrinks back, My soul does not delight in him.''
10:39 我们却不是退缩以致遭毁坏的人，乃是有信心以致得着魂的人。
But we are not of those who shrink back to ruin but of them who have faith to the gaining of the soul.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 11 章
11:1 信就是所望之事的质实，是未见之事的确证。
Now faith is the substantiation of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen.
11:2 古人在这信上得了美好的见证。
For in this the elders have obtained a good testimony.
11:3 我们因着信，知道宇宙是凭神的话结构起来的；这样，所看见的并不是从显然之物而成的。
By faith we understand that the universe has been framed by the word of God, so that what is seen has not come into being out of things which appear.
11:4 亚伯因着信献祭给神，比该隐所献的更美，藉此便得了称许为义的见证，就是神指着他的礼物所作的见证；他虽然死了，却借着这信仍旧说话。
By faith Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which he obtained the testimony that he was righteous, God testifying to his gifts; and
through faith, though he has died, he still speaks.
11:5 以诺因着信被接去，不至于见死，人也找不着他，因为神把他接去了；原来他被接去以前，已经得了蒙神喜悦的见证。
By faith Enoch was translated so that he should not see death; and he was not found, because God had translated him. For before his translation he obtained the
testimony that he had been well pleasing to God.
11:6 人非有信，就不能得神的喜悦；因为到神面前来的人，必须信有神，且信祂赏赐那寻求祂的人。
But without faith it is impossible to be well pleasing to Him, for he who comes forward to God must believe that He is and that He is a rewarder of those who
diligently seek Him.
11:7 挪亚因着信，既蒙神指示他未见的事，就为虔敬所动，预备了一只方舟，使他全家得救，藉此就定了那世界的罪，并且承受了那照着信而得的义。
By faith Noah, having been divinely instructed concerning things not yet seen and being moved by pious fear, prepared an ark for the salvation of his house,
through which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is according to faith.
11:8 亚伯拉罕因着信，蒙召的时候，就遵命出去，往将来要得为业的地方去；他出去了，还不知道往那里去。
By faith Abraham, being called, obeyed to go out unto a place which he was to receive as an inheritance; and he went out, not knowing where he was going.
11:9 他因着信，在应许之地作客，好像在异地，与承受同样应许的以撒、雅各一同居住在帐棚里；
By faith he dwelt as a foreigner in the land of promise as in a foreign land, making his home in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the fellow heirs of the same promise;
11:10 因为他等候那座有根基的城，其设计者并建筑者乃是神。
For he eagerly waited for the city which has the foundations, whose Architect and Builder is God.
11:11 因着信，连撒拉自己，即使过了年龄，还得了能力，怀孕生子，因她认为那应许她的是信实的。
By faith also Sarah herself received power to conceive seed, even beyond the season of age, since she considered Him faithful who promised.
11:12 所以从一个仿佛已死的人，生出子孙来，如同天上的星那样众多，海边的沙那样无数。
Therefore also there were born of one, and that of him who had become dead, as many as even the stars of heaven in multitude and as the sand by the
seashore innumerable.
11:13 这些人都是存着信心死的，并没有得着所应许的，却从远处望见，且欢喜迎接，又承认自己在地上是客旅，是寄居的。
All these died in faith, not receiving the promises but seeing them from afar and joyfully greeting them and confessing that they were strangers and sojourners on
the earth.
11:14 说这样话的人，是显明自己在寻找一个家乡。
For those who say such things make it manifest that they seek after a country of their own.
11:15 他们若真是想念着所离开的家乡，还有折回的机会；
And if indeed they continued to remember that country from which they went out, they would have had opportunity to return;
11:16 他们却羡慕一个更美、属天的家乡；所以神称为他们的神，并不以为耻，因为祂已经给他们预备了一座城。
But as it is, they long after a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God, for He has prepared a city for
them.
11:17 亚伯拉罕因着信，被试验的时候，就把以撒献上；这正是那欢喜领受应许的，将自己独生的儿子献上。
By faith Abraham, being tested, offered up Isaac; indeed he who gladly received the promises was offering up his only begotten,
11:18 论到这儿子，曾有话说，“从以撒生的，才要称为你的后裔。”
Of whom it was said, "In Isaac shall your seed be called'';
11:19 他算定神甚至能叫人从死人中复活；就表样说，他也实在从死人中得回了他的儿子。
Counting that God was able to raise men even from the dead, from which he also received him back in figure.
11:20 以撒因着信，指着要来的事，给雅各、以扫祝福。
By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, even concerning things to come.
11:21 雅各因着信，临死的时候，给约瑟的两个儿子各自祝福，并且扶着杖头敬拜神。
By faith Jacob, while he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph and worshipped God, while leaning on the top of his staff.
11:22 约瑟因着信，临终的时候，提到以色列子孙出埃及的事，并为自己的骸骨留下遗嘱。
By faith Joseph, nearing his end, made mention of the exodus of the sons of Israel and gave orders concerning his bones.
11:23 摩西生下来的时候，他的父母因见他是个俊美的孩子，就因着信，把他藏了三个月，并不怕王命。
By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents because they saw that the child was lovely, and they did not fear the king's
decree.
11:24 摩西因着信，长大了就拒绝称为法老女儿之子；
By faith Moses, when he had grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
11:25 他宁可选择和神的百姓同受苦害，也不愿有罪的短暂享受；
Choosing rather to be ill treated with the people of God than to have the temporary enjoyment of sin,
11:26 他算为基督受的凌辱，比埃及的财物更宝贵，因他望断以及于那赏赐。
Considering the reproach of the Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt; for he looked away to the reward.
11:27 他因着信，离开埃及，不怕王怒；因他坚定不移，如同看见那不能看见的主；
By faith he left Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he persevered as one seeing the unseen One.
11:28 他因着信，就立了逾越节并涂血的事，免得那灭长子的临及以色列人。
By faith he instituted the Passover and the pouring out of the blood so that the one destroying the firstborn would not touch them.
11:29 他们因着信，过红海如过干地；埃及人试着要过去，就被吞灭了。
By faith they passed through the Red Sea as through dry land, in which the Egyptians, while making the attempt, were swallowed up.
11:30 因着信，耶利哥的城墙被围绕七日，就倒塌了。
By faith the walls of Jericho fell, having been encircled for a period of seven days.
11:31 妓女喇合因着信，和和平平的接待探子，就不与那些不信从的人一同灭亡。
By faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with those who were disobedient, since she had received the spies with peace.
11:32 此外，我还要再说什么？若要一一细说基甸、巴拉、参孙、耶弗他、大卫、撒母耳和众申言者的事，时间就不够我用了。
And what more shall I say? For time will fail me if I tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, of David and Samuel and the prophets,
11:33 他们借着信，制伏了列国，行了公义，得了应许，堵了狮子的口，
Who through faith overcame kingdoms, worked righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions,
11:34 灭了烈火的猛势，脱了刀剑的锋刃，软弱得着加力，争战显出大能，打退外邦的军队。
Quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, were made strong in weakness, became mighty in war, routed the armies of foreigners.
11:35 有妇人得自己的死人复活；另有人受严刑至死，不肯接受释放，为要得着更美的复活；
Women received their dead by resurrection; and others were tortured to death, not accepting deliverance, in order that they might obtain a better resurrection.
11:36 又另有人受了戏弄和鞭打，甚至捆锁和监禁的试炼；
And still others underwent the trial of mockings and scourgings, even, moreover, of bonds and imprisonment.
11:37 他们被石头打死，被锯锯死，受到试探，被刀杀死；披着绵羊山羊的皮各处奔走，受穷乏，受患难，受苦害；
They were stoned, they were sawn in two, they were tempted, they died by the murder of the sword, they wandered about in sheepskins, in goatskins, destitute,
afflicted, ill treated
11:38 在旷野、山岭、山洞、地穴，飘流无定，是世界不配有的。
(Of whom the world was not worthy), wandering over deserts and mountains and in caves and holes of the earth.
11:39 这些人都借着信得了美好的见证，却没有得着所应许的；
And these all, having obtained a good testimony through their faith, did not obtain the promise,
11:40 因为神为我们预备了更美的事，叫他们若没有我们，就不能完全。
Because God has provided something better for us, so that apart from us they would not be made perfect.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 12 章
12:1 所以，我们既有这许多的见证人，如同云彩围着我们，就当脱去各样的重担，和容易缠累我们的罪，凭着忍耐奔那摆在我们前头的赛程，
Therefore let us also, having so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, put away every encumbrance and the sin which so easily entangles us and run with
endurance the race which is set before us,
12:2 望断以及于耶稣，就是我们信心的创始者与成终者；祂为那摆在前面的喜乐，就轻看羞辱，忍受了十字架，便坐在神宝座的右边。
Looking away unto Jesus, the Author and Perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before Him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down on the
right hand of the throne of God.
12:3 那忍受罪人这样顶撞自己的，你们要考量比较，免得疲倦灰心。
For compare Him who has endured such contradiction by sinners against Himself, so that you may not grow weary, fainting in your souls.
12:4 你们与罪争斗，还没有抵挡到流血；
You have not yet resisted unto blood, struggling against sin,
12:5 你们竟全然忘了那劝勉的话，就是对你们如同对儿子所讲论的，说，“我儿，你不可轻看主的管教，被祂责备的时候，也不可灰心；
And you have completely forgotten the exhortation which reasons with you as with sons, "My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor faint when
reproved by Him;
12:6 因为主所爱的，祂必管教，又鞭打凡所收纳的儿子。”
For whom the Lord loves He disciplines, and He scourges every son whom He receives.''
12:7 为了受管教，你们要忍受。神待你们如同待儿子；那有儿子是父亲不管教的？
It is for discipline that you endure; God deals with you as with sons. For what son is there whom the father does not discipline?
12:8 只是你们若不受众子所共受的管教，就是私生子，不是儿子了。
But if you are without discipline, of which all sons have become partakers, then you are illegitimate and not sons.
12:9 再者，我们曾有肉身的父管教我们，我们尚且敬重他们，何况万灵的父，我们岂不更当服从祂而得活着么？
Furthermore we have had the fathers of our flesh as discipliners and we respected them; shall we not much more be in subjection to the Father of spirits and live?
12:10 肉身的父是在短暂的日子里，照自己以为好的管教我们，惟有万灵的父管教我们，是为了我们的益处，使我们有分于祂的圣别。
For they disciplined for a few days as it seemed good to them; but He, for what is profitable that we might partake of His holiness.
12:11 一切的管教，当时固然不觉得喜乐，反觉得愁苦；后来却给那藉此受过操练的人，结出平安的义果。
Now no discipline at the present time seems to be a matter of joy, but of grief; but afterward it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been
exercised by it.
12:12 所以你们要把下垂的手，瘫弱的膝挺起来；
Therefore set straight the hands which hang down and the paralyzed knees,
12:13 也要为自己的脚把路径修直了，使瘸子不至脱臼，反得医治。
And make straight paths for your feet, that what is lame may not be put out of joint but rather may be healed.
12:14 你们要追求与众人和睦，并要追求圣别，非圣别没有人能见主；
Pursue peace with all men and sanctification, without which no one will see the Lord;
12:15 要监察，免得有人坠落离开神的恩典；免得有苦根长起来缠扰你们，许多人便因此沾染污秽；
Looking carefully lest anyone fall away from the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and through this many be defiled;
12:16 免得有淫乱的、或贪恋世俗如以扫的，他因一口食物把自己长子的名分卖了。
Lest there be any fornicator or profane person like Esau, who for one meal gave up his own birthright.
12:17 后来他也想要承受祝福，竟被拒绝；虽然带着泪苦求，还是没有反悔的余地，这是你们知道的。
For you know that also afterward, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected; for he found no place for repentance, even though he sought it with
tears.
12:18 你们原不是来到那可摸、有火烧着的山，和黑暗、幽暗、旋风、
For you have not come forward to a mountain which could be touched and which was set on fire, and to darkness and gloom and whirlwind,
12:19 角声、与说话的声音那里；那些听见这声音的，都恳求不要再对他们多说话；
And to the sound of a trumpet and to the voice of words, because of which those who heard entreated that no further word be spoken to them;
12:20 因为他们担当不起所嘱咐他们的话：“即使是走兽摸了这山，也要用石头打死。”
For they could not bear that which was being commanded: "If even a beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned.''
12:21 并且所显现的是如此可怕，甚至摩西说，“我甚是恐惧战兢。”
And so fearful was the sight, Moses said, "I am full of fear and trembling.''
12:22 但你们乃是来到锡安山，来到活神的城，属天的耶路撒冷，来到千万天使整体的聚集，
But you have come forward to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem; and to myriads of angels, to the universal gathering;
12:23 来到名字记录在诸天之上众长子的召会，来到审判众人的神这里，来到被成全之义人的灵这里，
And to the church of the firstborn, who have been enrolled in the heavens; and to God, the Judge of all; and to the spirits of righteous men who have been made
perfect;
12:24 来到新约的中保耶稣这里，并来到所洒的血这里，这血所说的比亚伯的血所说的更美。
And to Jesus, the Mediator of a new covenant; and to the blood of sprinkling, which speaks something better than that of Abel.
12:25 你们要谨慎，不可弃绝那说话的，因为那些弃绝那在地上警戒他们者的，尚且不能逃罪，何况我们这转离那从诸天之上警戒我们者的？
See that you do not refuse Him who speaks, for if those did not escape who refused Him who warned them upon the earth, much more we shall not escape who
turn away from Him who warns from heaven,
12:26 当时祂的声音震动了地；但如今祂应许说，“再一次我不单要震动地，还要震动天。”
Whose voice at that time shook the earth but now has promised, saying, "Yet once more I will shake not only the earth but also heaven.''
12:27 这“再一次，”指明那被震动的，就是受造之物，都要挪去，使那不被震动的常存。
And this word, "Yet once more,'' shows clearly the removal of the things being shaken as being of things having been made, that the things which are not shaken
may remain.
12:28 所以我们既领受了不能震动的国，就当接受恩典，藉此得以照神所喜悦的，以虔诚和畏惧事奉神；
Therefore receiving an unshakable kingdom, let us have grace, through which we may serve God well-pleasingly with piety and fear;
12:29 因为我们的神乃是烈火。
For our God is also a consuming fire.
希伯来书 Hebrews 第 13 章
13:1 弟兄相爱要持久。
Let brotherly love continue.
13:2 不可忘记用爱接待客旅；因为有人藉此不知不觉的款待了天使。
Do not forget hospitality, for through this some, without knowing it, have entertained angels.
13:3 你们要顾念被捆绑的人，好像与他们同受捆绑；也要顾念遭苦害的人，因为自己也在肉身之内。
Remember those who are imprisoned as bound with them, those who are ill treated as being yourselves also likewise treated in body.
13:4 婚姻当在众人中间受尊重，床也不可污秽，因为淫乱和奸淫的人，神必审判。
Let marriage be held in honor among all, and the bed undefiled; for fornicators and adulterers God will judge.
13:5 你们生活为人不可贪爱钱财，要以现有的为足；因为主曾说，“我绝不撇下你，也绝不丢弃你。”
Let your way of life be without the love of money, being satisfied with the things which are at hand; for He Himself has said, "I shall by no means give you up,
neither by any means shall I abandon you'';
13:6 所以我们放胆说，“主是帮助我的，我必不惧怕；人能把我怎么样？”
So that being of good courage, we say, "The Lord is my Helper, and I will not fear. What shall man do to me?''
13:7 要记念那些带领你们，对你们讲过神话语的人，要效法他们的信心，留心看他们为人的结局。
Remember the ones leading you, who have spoken to you the word of God; and considering the issue of their manner of life, imitate their faith.
13:8 耶稣基督，昨日、今日、直到永远，是一样的。
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today, yes, even forever.
13:9 你们不要被各样怪异的教训带入歧途，因为心靠恩典得坚固，不靠祭物作食物，才是好的；那靠祭物作食物而行的，从来没有得着益处。
Do not be carried away by various strange teachings, for it is good for the heart to be confirmed by grace, not by the food of sacrifices, by which those who walk
were not profited.
13:10 我们有一祭坛，其上的祭物，是那些事奉帐幕的人没有权利吃的。
We have an altar from which they who are serving the tabernacle have no right to eat.
13:11 原来祭牲的血，由大祭司为着罪带进至圣所，祭牲的身体，被烧在营外。
For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the Holy of Holies for sin by the high priest are burned up outside the camp.
13:12 所以耶稣为要藉自己的血圣别百姓，也就在城门外受苦。
Therefore also Jesus, that He might sanctify the people through His own blood, suffered outside the gate.
13:13 这样，我们也当出到营外就了祂去，忍受祂所受的凌辱。
Let us therefore go forth unto Him outside the camp, bearing His reproach.
13:14 我们在这里本没有常存的城，乃是寻求那要来的城。
For we do not have here a remaining city, but we seek after the one to come.
13:15 所以我们应当借着耶稣，常常向神献上赞美的祭，这就是承认主名之嘴唇的果子。
Through Him then let us offer up a sacrifice of praise continually to God, that is, the fruit of lips confessing His name.
13:16 只是不可忘记行善和供输，因为这样的祭物是神所喜悦的。
But do not forget doing good and sharing with others, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
13:17 你们要信从那些带领你们的，且要服从；因他们为你们的魂儆醒，好像要交账的人；你们要使他们欢乐的作这事，不至叹息；若叹息，就与你们无
益了。
Obey the ones leading you and submit to them, for they watch over your souls as those who will render an account, that they may do this with joy and not
groaning; for this would be unprofitable to you.
13:18 请你们为我们祷告，因我们深信自己良心无亏，愿意凡事都行得好。
Pray for us, for we are persuaded that we have a good conscience, desiring in all things to conduct ourselves honorably.
13:19 我更加求你们为我祷告，使我能快些回到你们那里去。
And I exhort you much more to do this that I may be restored to you more quickly.
13:20 但愿平安的神，就是那凭永约之血，领群羊的大牧人我们的主耶稣，从死人中上来的，
Now the God of peace, He who brought up from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great Shepherd of the sheep, in the blood of an eternal covenant,
13:21 在各样善事上成全你们，好实行祂的旨意；祂是在我们里面，借着耶稣基督，行祂看为可喜悦的事。愿荣耀归与祂，直到永永远远。阿们。
Perfect you in every good work for the doing of His will, doing in us that which is well pleasing in His sight through Jesus Christ; to Him be the glory forever and
ever. Amen.
13:22 弟兄们，我恳求你们容纳这劝勉的话，因我不过是简短的写给你们。
Now I beseech you, brothers, bear with the word of this exhortation; for indeed I have written to you in few words.
13:23 你们该知道，我们的弟兄提摩太已经释放了；他若快来，我必同他去见你们。
Know that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom, if he comes soon, I will see you.
13:24 请问带领你们的诸位和众圣徒安。从义大利来的人也问你们安。
Greet all the ones leading you and all the saints. Those from Italy greet you.
13:25 愿恩典与你们众人同在。阿们。
Grace be with you all. Amen.