23. 以赛亚书 Isaiah
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 1 章
1:1 当乌西雅、约坦、亚哈斯、希西家作犹大王的时候，亚摩斯的儿子以赛亚所看见，关于犹大和耶路撒冷的异象：
The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, the kings of Judah:
1:2 天哪，要听；地阿，要侧耳听；因为耶和华说，我养育儿女，将他们养大，他们竟背叛我。
Hear, O heavens, and hearken, O earth, For Jehovah has spoken: I have brought up children, and I have raised them; And yet they have rebelled against Me.
1:3 牛认识主人，驴认识主人的槽；以色列却不认识，我的民却不留意。
The ox knows his owner, And the donkey, his master's manger; But Israel does not know, My people do not much consider.
1:4 嗐，犯罪的国民，罪孽深重的百姓，作恶的种类，行事败坏的儿女！他们离弃耶和华，藐视以色列的圣者，与祂生疏而退后。
Alas, sinful nation, A people heavy with iniquity, Seed of evildoers, Children acting corruptly! They have forsaken Jehovah; They have despised the Holy One of
Israel; They have become estranged and have gone backward.
1:5 你们还有何处可受责打？你们还要继续背道么？你们已经满头疼痛，全心发昏；
Where will you be stricken again? Will you continue your apostasy? The whole head has become sick, And the whole heart faint;
1:6 从脚掌到头顶，没有一处完好；尽是伤口，青肿，与新打的伤痕；都没有收口，没有缠裹，也没有用油滋润。
From the sole of the foot even to the head, There is no soundness in it, Only bruises and blows And raw wounds-They have not been pressed out nor bound up
Nor softened with oil.
1:7 你们的地土荒凉；你们的城邑被火焚毁；你们的田地在你们眼前被外人侵吞，就成为荒凉，如同被外人倾覆的一样。
Your land is a desolation; Your cities are burned with fire; Your field-in your sight Strangers devour it; It is a desolation, like something overthrown by strangers.
1:8 仅存锡安城，好像葡萄园的草棚、瓜田的茅屋、被围困的城邑。
And the daughter of Zion is left Like a booth in a vineyard, Like a hut in a cucumber field, Like a besieged city.
1:9 若不是万军之耶和华给我们稍留余种，我们早已像所多玛，和蛾摩拉一样了。
Unless Jehovah of hosts Had left to us a surviving few, We would have been like Sodom, We would have resembled Gomorrah.
1:10 你们所多玛的官长阿，要听耶和华的话；你们蛾摩拉的百姓阿，要侧耳听我们神的训诲。
Hear the word of Jehovah, You rulers of Sodom; Hearken to the instruction of our God, You people of Gomorrah.
1:11 耶和华说，你们所献的许多祭物，与我何益呢？公绵羊的燔祭和肥畜的脂油，我已经够了；公牛、羊羔和公山羊的血，我都不喜悦。
What is the multitude of your sacrifices to Me? Says Jehovah. I have had My fill of burnt offerings of rams And the fat of fed cattle; The blood of bulls and lambs
And goats, I do not delight in.
1:12 你们来朝见我的时候，谁要你们手中带着这些，践踏我的院宇呢？
When you come to appear before Me, Who has required this of your hand, To trample My courts?
1:13 你们不要再带虚浮的供物来；你们所烧的香是我所憎恶的。守月朔和安息日，宣召大会，也是我所憎恶的；作罪孽又守严肃会，我不能容忍。
Bring no more vain offerings; Incense is an abomination to Me. New moon and Sabbath, the calling of convocations-I cannot bear iniquity and the solemn
assembly.
1:14 你们的月朔和所定的节期，我心里恨恶；这些都成了我的重担；我担当得不耐烦了。
Your new moons and your appointed feasts My soul hates; They have become a burden on Me; I am weary of bearing them.
1:15 你们伸开双手祷告，我必遮眼不看你们；就是你们多多祷告，我也不听。你们的手满了杀人的血。
Thus, when you spread forth your hands, I will hide My eyes from you; Even though you multiply your prayers, I will not hear. Your hands are full of blood;
1:16 你们要洗濯自己，洁净自己；从我眼前除掉你们的恶行；要止住作恶，
Wash yourselves; cleanse yourselves. Turn away the evil of your deeds From before My eyes. Cease doing what is evil;
1:17 学习行善；寻求公平，解救受欺压的；给孤儿伸冤，为寡妇辨屈。
Learn to do good. Seek justice; Correct the ruthless. Defend the orphan; Plead for the widow.
1:18 耶和华说，你们来，我们彼此辩论。你们的罪虽像朱红，必变白如雪；虽红如丹颜，必白如羊毛。
Come now and let us reason together, Says Jehovah. Though your sins are like scarlet, They will be as white as snow; Though they are as red as crimson, They
will be like wool.
1:19 你们若甘心听从，必吃地上的美物；
If you are willing and listen, You will eat the good of the land;
1:20 若不听从，反倒悖逆，必被刀剑吞灭；这是耶和华亲口说的。
But if you refuse and rebel, You will be devoured by the sword; For the mouth of Jehovah has spoken.
1:21 忠信的城，何竟变为妓女！从前充满了公平，有公义居在其中，现今却有凶手居住！
How the faithful city Has become a harlot! She who was full of justice, She in whom righteousness once lodged, But now murderers!
1:22 你的银子变为渣滓，你的酒搀水变淡；
Your silver has become dross; Your wine diluted with water;
1:23 你的首领居心悖逆，与盗贼作伴；他们都喜爱贿赂，追求赃私，不为孤儿伸冤，寡妇的案件也不得呈到他们面前。
Your rulers are rebellious And companions of thieves; They all love bribes And chase after rewards; They do not defend the orphan, Nor does the widow's plea
come before them.
1:24 因此，主万军之耶和华以色列的大能者说，哎，我要向我的对头雪恨，向我的仇敌报复；
Hence, the Lord Jehovah of hosts, The Mighty One of Israel, declares: Ah, I will ease Myself of My adversaries, And I will avenge Myself of My enemies;
1:25 我必反手加在你身上。我必炼尽你的渣滓，如同用碱炼过，也必除净你的杂质。
And I will turn My hand against you. I will thoroughly purge away your dross as with lye, And I will remove all your alloy.
1:26 我也必恢复你的审判官，像起初一样，恢复你的谋士，像起先一般。然后，你必称为公义之城，忠信之邑。
And I will restore your judges as at the first And your counselors as at the beginning. Afterward you will be called the city of righteousness, The faithful city.
1:27 锡安必因公平得蒙救赎，其中归回的人，必因公义得蒙救赎。
Zion will be ransomed with justice, And her returning ones with righteousness.
1:28 但悖逆的和犯罪的必一同败亡，离弃耶和华的必致消灭。
And there will be the shattering of rebels and sinners together, And those who forsake Jehovah will meet their end.
671
1:29 你们必因所喜爱的橡树抱愧；你们必因所选择的园子蒙羞。
For you will be ashamed of the terebinths That you have taken pleasure in; And you will be embarrassed at the gardens That you have chosen.
1:30 因为你们必如叶子凋落的橡树，又像无水的园子；
For you will be like a terebinth Whose leaves are falling, And like a garden In which there is no water;
1:31 有权势的必如麻屑，他的工作好像火星；他们都要一同焚毁，无人扑灭。
And the strong man will become tow, And his work a spark; And they will both burn together, And there will be none to extinguish them.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 2 章
2:1 亚摩斯的儿子以赛亚所看见，关于犹大和耶路撒冷的话：
The word which Isaiah the son of Amoz saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem:
2:2 末后的日子，耶和华殿的山必坚立于诸山之顶，高举过于众冈陵；万国的民都要涌向这山；
But in the last days The mountain of the house of Jehovah will be established On the top of the mountains; And it will be lifted up among the hills; And all the
nations will stream to it,
2:3 多族的民要前来，说，来罢，我们登耶和华的山，上雅各神的殿；祂必将祂的道路教导我们，使我们行祂的路径。因为训诲必出于锡安，耶和华的言
语必出于耶路撒冷；
And many peoples will come and say, Come and let us go up to the mountain of Jehovah, To the house of the God of Jacob, That He may instruct us in His ways,
And that we may walk in His paths. For from Zion will go forth instruction, And the word of Jehovah from Jerusalem;
2:4 祂必在列国之间施行审判，为多族的民断定是非。他们要将刀打成犁头，把枪打成镰刀；这国不举刀攻击那国，他们也不再学习战事。
And He will judge between the nations, And will decide matters for many peoples. And they will beat their swords into plowshares, And their spears into pruning
knives; Nation will not lift up sword against nation, Nor will they learn war anymore.
2:5 雅各家阿，来罢，我们在耶和华的光中行走。
House of Jacob, come and let us walk in the light of Jehovah.
2:6 耶和华阿，你离弃了你百姓雅各家，是因他们充满了东方的风俗，作观兆的，像非利士人一样，并与外邦人联手。
For You have abandoned Your people, The house of Jacob; Because they are full of customs from the east, And they are soothsayers like the Philistines, And they
clasp hands with the children of foreigners.
2:7 他们的地满了金银，财宝也无穷；他们的地满了马匹，车辆也无数。
Their land is full of silver and gold, And their treasures are limitless; Their land is also full of horses, And their chariots are limitless.
2:8 他们的地满了偶像；他们跪拜自己手所造的，就是自己指头所作的。
And their land is full of idols; They bow down to the work of their hands, To that which their fingers have made.
2:9 如此，平常人屈膝，显贵人降卑下跪；所以不可饶恕他们。
Thus the ordinary man is humbled, and the man of distinction is abased-But do not forgive them.
2:10 你当进入岩穴，藏在土中，躲避耶和华的惊吓，和祂威严的荣光。
Enter into the rock, And hide in the dust, From the dread of Jehovah, And from the splendor of His majesty.
2:11 人高傲的眼目必降为卑，人的狂傲都必屈服；到那日，惟独耶和华被尊崇。
Man's haughty look will be abased, And the loftiness of men will be humbled; But Jehovah alone will be exalted In that day.
2:12 因为必有万军之耶和华的一个日子，临到一切骄矜高傲的，和一切高抬自己的，使其降为卑；
For Jehovah of hosts will have a day Over everything proud and lofty, And over everything lifted up that it may be abased;
2:13 又临到利巴嫩一切高大的香柏树，和巴珊一切的橡树；
Over all the cedars of Lebanon, Which are lofty and lifted up, And over all the oaks of Bashan;
2:14 又临到一切高山，和一切耸起的冈陵；
Over all the lofty mountains, And over all the hills that are lifted up;
2:15 又临到每一高台，和每一坚固的城墙；
Over every high tower, And over every fortified wall;
2:16 又临到他施一切的船只，并一切可喜爱的美物；
Over all the ships of Tarshish, And over all their pleasant artifacts.
2:17 平常人的高傲必屈服，显贵人的狂傲必降为卑；到那日，惟独耶和华被尊崇。
And the haughtiness of the ordinary man will be humbled, And the loftiness of the men of distinction will be abased; But Jehovah alone will be exalted In that day.
2:18 偶像必全然消逝。
And the idols will vanish completely.
2:19 耶和华兴起使地大震动的时候，人必进入石洞，进入土穴，躲避耶和华的惊吓，和祂威严的荣光。
And men will go into caves in the rocks And into holes in the dust, From the dread of Jehovah, And from the splendor of His majesty, When He arises to make the
earth tremble.
2:20 到那日，人必将他们所造、供自己跪拜的银偶像和金偶像，抛给田鼠和蝙蝠；
In that day a man will cast His idols of silver and his idols of gold, Which they made for themselves to bow down to, To the moles and to the bats,
2:21 到耶和华兴起使地震动的时候，人好进入磐石洞中，进入岩石穴里，躲避耶和华的惊吓，和祂威严的荣光。
So that they may go into the crevices of the rocks And into the clefts of the cliffs, From the dread of Jehovah, And from the splendor of His majesty, When He
arises to make the earth tremble.
2:22 你们休要倚靠人，他鼻孔里不过有气息；他可算什么呢？
Stop regarding man, Whose life breath is in his nostrils. For of what value is he considered to be?
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 3 章
3:1 看哪，主万军之耶和华快要从耶路撒冷和犹大，除掉人各种的倚靠，就是一切所倚靠的粮，和一切所倚靠的水；
672
For now the Lord Jehovah of hosts Is taking away from Jerusalem and from Judah Every kind of support-All the support of bread And all the support of water;
3:2 除掉勇士和战士，审判官和申言者，占卜的和长老，
The mighty man and the man of war, The judge and the prophet, And the diviner and the elder;
3:3 五十夫长和尊贵人，谋士、有巧艺的和通晓法术的。
The captain of fifty and the highly regarded; And the counselor, the wise magician, and the knowledgeable enchanter.
3:4 主说，我必使少年人作他们的首领，使反覆无定的人辖管他们。
And I will make youths their rulers, And capriciousness will rule over them.
3:5 百姓要彼此欺压，各人受邻舍的欺压。少年人必侮慢老年人，卑贱人必侮慢尊贵人。
And the people will be oppressed, each by the other, And each by his neighbor. The youth will be arrogant to the elder, And the contemned one to the one who
is honored.
3:6 人在父家拉住弟兄，说，你有衣服，可以作我们的官长，这些败落的事归在你手下罢；
When a man takes hold of his brother In his father's house and says, You have clothing, you be our ruler, And these ruins will be under your hand;
3:7 那时他必扬声说，我不作裹伤的人，因我家中没有粮食，也没有衣服；你们不可立我作百姓的官长。
He will solemnly say, I will not be the one who binds your wounds, For in my house there is no food or clothing; Do not appoint me as ruler of the people.
3:8 耶路撒冷绊跌，犹大仆倒，因为他们的言语和行为都与耶和华作对，违抗祂荣光的眼目。
For Jerusalem stumbles, And Judah falls, Because their speech and their actions are against Jehovah, To rebel against the eyes of His glory.
3:9 他们的面色证明自己的不正；他们宣扬自己的罪，并不隐瞒，好像所多玛一样。他们有祸了，因为他们自招祸害！
The countenance of their faces witnesses against them, And they declare their sin like Sodom; They do not hide it. Woe to their soul! For they have brought evil
upon themselves.
3:10 你们要对义人说，他们必享福乐，因为要吃自己行为所结的果子。
Say to the righteous that it will go well with them, For they will eat the fruit of their actions.
3:11 恶人有祸了！他必遭灾难，因为要照自己手所行的受报应。
Woe to the wicked man! It will go badly with him; For the result of his deeds will be done to him.
3:12 至于我的百姓，孩童欺压他们，妇女辖管他们。我的百姓阿，引导你的使你走错，且隐藏你当行的道路。
My people-their oppressors are children, And women rule over them. O My people, those who lead you are leading you astray; And the path for your ways they
have hidden.
3:13 耶和华站立辩论，站着审判百姓。
Jehovah stands firm to contend, And He stands to judge the people.
3:14 耶和华必控诉民中的长老和首领，说，吃尽葡萄园果子的，就是你们；从贫穷人所夺的，都在你们家中。
Jehovah will enter into judgment With the elders of His people and their rulers. It is you who have consumed the vineyard; The spoil of the poor is in your houses.
3:15 主万军之耶和华说，你们为何压制我的百姓，搓磨贫穷人的脸呢？
What do you mean by crushing My people And grinding the faces of the poor? Declares the Lord Jehovah of hosts.
3:16 耶和华又说，因为锡安的女子高傲，行走挺项，卖弄眼目，俏步徐行，脚下玎珰；
Moreover Jehovah said, Because the daughters of Zion are haughty, And walk around with outstretched necks And lusting eyes, And trip along with quick, little
steps, And rattle the anklets on their feet;
3:17 所以主必使锡安的女子头长秃疮，耶和华又使她们赤露下体。
The Lord will strike the scalp of the daughters of Zion with scabs, And Jehovah will expose their secret parts.
3:18 到那日，主必除掉她们华美的脚钏、发网、月牙圈，
In that day the Lord will remove the beauty of their anklets, headbands, and crescents;
3:19 耳坠、手镯、贵价的帕子，
The ear pendants, the bracelets, and the costly veils;
3:20 华冠、足炼、华带、香盒、符囊，
The headdresses, the ankle chains, the sashes, the bottles of aromas, and the amulets;
3:21 戒指、鼻环，
The finger rings and the nose rings;
3:22 礼服、外套、披肩、荷包，
The formal gowns, the frocks, the wraps, and the purses;
3:23 手镜、细麻衣、裹头巾、蒙身的帕子。
The mirrors, the fine linen garments, the turbans, and the veils.
3:24 必有臭烂代替馨香，绳索代替腰带，光秃代替美发，麻衣系腰代替华服，烙伤代替美容。
And instead of a sweet smell there will be rottenness; And instead of a belt, an encircling rope; Instead of well-set hair, baldness; And instead of fine garments,
the girding of oneself with sackcloth; A brand instead of beauty.
3:25 你的男丁必倒在刀下，你的勇士必倒在阵上；
Your men will fall by the sword, And your mighty, in battle;
3:26 锡安的城门必悲伤、哀号，她必荒凉坐在地上。
Then her gates will mourn and lament, And she, being desolated, will sit on the ground.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 4 章
4:1 在那日，七个女人必拉住一个男人，说，我们吃自己的食物，穿自己的衣服；但求你许我们归你名下；求你除掉我们的羞耻。
And seven women will grasp One man in that day, Saying, We will eat our own bread And wear our own clothes; Just let us bear your name; Take away our
reproach .
4:2 到那日，对以色列逃脱的人，耶和华的苗必成为他们的华美荣耀，而且地的果子必成为他们的夸耀光彩。
In that day the Shoot of Jehovah will be beauty and glory, and the Fruit of the earth, excellence and splendor, to those of Israel who have escaped.
4:3 那时，剩在锡安、留在耶路撒冷的，就是一切记名在耶路撒冷存活的，必称为圣。
673
And he who is left over in Zion and remains in Jerusalem will be called holy, everyone who has been written down in Jerusalem for life;
4:4 因为主已用审判的灵，和焚烧的灵，将锡安女子的污秽洗去，又将耶路撒冷中杀人的血洁除。
When the Lord has washed away the filth of the daughters of Zion and has cleansed away the bloodstains of Jerusalem from her midst, by the judging Spirit and
the burning Spirit.
4:5 耶和华必创造日间的烟云，并夜间火焰的照亮，遮覆锡安山全境，且遮覆其所有宣召的大会；因为荣耀必成为罩盖，遮覆一切。
Jehovah will create over the entire region of Mount Zion and over all her convocations a cloud of smoke by day, and the brightness of a fiery flame by night; for
the glory will be a canopy over all.
4:6 并且必有帐棚，白日成荫，可以避暑，并作避难所和藏身处，可以躲避狂风暴雨。
And there will be a tabernacle as a daytime shade from the heat and as a refuge and a cover from storm and rain.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 5 章
5:1 我要歌唱我所亲爱的，唱我所爱者的歌，论到祂的葡萄园。我所亲爱的有葡萄园，在肥美的山冈上。
Let me sing of my Beloved, A song of my Beloved concerning His vineyard. My Beloved had a vineyard On a fertile hill.
5:2 祂刨挖园子，清除石头，栽种上等的葡萄树，又在园中盖了一座楼，凿出压酒池；指望结好葡萄，反倒结了野葡萄。
And He dug it up and cleared away its stones, And He planted it with the choicest vine. Then He built a tower in the middle of it, And hewed out a wine vat in it.
And He looked for it to produce grapes, But it produced only wild grapes.
5:3 耶路撒冷的居民和犹大人哪，请你们现今在我与我的葡萄园之间，作个评断。
So then, you inhabitants of Jerusalem And you men of Judah, Judge between Me And My vineyard.
5:4 我为我的葡萄园，还可以作什么，是我没有作过的呢？我指望结好葡萄，怎么倒结了野葡萄呢？
What more could I have done for My vineyard That I have not already done for it? Why then, when I looked for it to produce grapes, Did it produce only wild
grapes?
5:5 现在我告诉你们，我要向我的葡萄园怎样行：我必撤去它的篱笆，使它被吞灭；拆毁它的墙垣，使它被践踏。
And now I will make known to you What I will now do to My vineyard: I will remove its hedge, and it will be consumed; I will break down its wall, and it will
become a trampled place.
5:6 我必使它荒废，不再修理，不再锄刨；荆棘蒺藜倒要生长。我也必命云不降雨在其上。
And I will make it a waste; It will not be pruned, nor will it be hoed; But thorns and thistles will come on it. And I will command the clouds Not to rain upon it.
5:7 原来万军之耶和华的葡萄园就是以色列家，祂所喜悦的树就是犹大人；祂指望的是公平，谁知倒有流血！指望的是公义，谁知倒有哀声！
For the vineyard of Jehovah of hosts is the house of Israel, And the men of Judah, the plant of His good pleasure; And He expected justice, but instead, bloodshed!
He expected righteousness, but instead, an outcry of distress!
5:8 祸哉，那些以房接房，以地连地，以致不留余地，只顾自己独居境内的人！
Woe to those who join house to house, Who lay field to field, Till there is no place left, And you dwell alone in the midst of the land!
5:9 我耳闻万军之耶和华起誓说，必有许多房屋成为荒凉，又大又美的房屋无人居住。
In my ears Jehovah of hosts has sworn: Many houses shall indeed become desolate; Great ones and fine ones shall be without inhabitants.
5:10 因为十亩葡萄园只出一罢特酒，一贺梅珥谷种只结一伊法粮食。
For ten acres of vineyard will produce a mere bath of wine, And a homer of seed will produce an ephah of grain.
5:11 祸哉，那些清早起来追求浓酒，留连到夜深，以致因酒发烧的人！
Woe to those who rise early in the morning That they may run after liquor, To those who linger into the evening That wine may inflame them!
5:12 他们在筵席上弹琴、鼓瑟、击鼓、吹笛、饮酒，却不顾念耶和华的作为，也不留心祂手所作的。
Lyre and harp, tambourine and flute, And wine are the essence of their banquets; And they do not consider what has been done by Jehovah, Nor do they regard
the work of His hands.
5:13 所以我的百姓因无知就被迁徙；他们的尊贵人成了饥饿的民，群众极其干渴。
Hence, my people go into exile For lack of knowledge; Their nobility become famished men, And their multitudes, parched with thirst.
5:14 故此，阴间扩张其欲，大开其口，没有限量；耶路撒冷的荣美、群众、喧哗、并在其中欢乐的人，都落入阴间。
Hence, Sheol enlarges its appetite And opens its mouth wide, without limit, And Jerusalem's splendor descends, and her din And her uproar and the jubilant
within her.
5:15 平常人屈服，显贵人降为卑，高傲人的眼目也降为卑；
Thus the ordinary man is humbled, and the man of distinction is abased; And the eyes of the haughty are abased;
5:16 惟有万军之耶和华，因审判得高举，圣别的神，因公义显为圣别。
But Jehovah of hosts is exalted in judgment, And the holy God shows Himself holy in righteousness.
5:17 那时羊羔必来吃草，如同在自己的草场，丰肥人的荒场必被外人吃尽。
Then lambs will graze there as in their pasture, And strangers will eat the wastelands of fat men.
5:18 祸哉，那些以虚假之绳索牵罪孽，又像以套绳拉罪恶的人！
Woe to those who draw iniquity with ropes of vanity, And sin as with cart ropes;
5:19 他们说，任祂急速而行，赶快成就祂的作为，使我们可以看见；任以色列圣者所谋画的临近成就，使我们可以知道。
Who say, He should hurry up; He should hasten His work, So that we may see it; And the counsel of the Holy One of Israel Should draw near and happen, So that
we may know it!
5:20 祸哉，那些称恶为善，称善为恶，以暗为光，以光为暗，以苦为甜，以甜为苦的人！
Woe to those who call evil good, And good evil; Who put darkness for light, And light for darkness; Who put bitter for sweet, And sweet for bitter!
5:21 祸哉，那些自视为有智慧，自看为精明的人！
Isaiah 5:21 says, "Woe to those who are wise in their own eyes, And prudent in their own sight!"
5:22 祸哉，那些饮酒的勇士，那些调浓酒的壮士！
Woe to those who are heroes in drinking wine, And men of valor in mixing liquor;
5:23 他们因受贿赂，就定恶人为义，将义人的义夺去。
Who acquit the criminal as a result of a bribe, But refuse righteousness to the righteous!
674
5:24 火舌怎样吞灭碎秸，干草怎样落在火焰之中，照样，他们的根必像朽物，他们的花必像灰尘飞扬；因为他们厌弃万军之耶和华的训诲，藐视以色列圣
者的言语。
Therefore as a tongue of fire consumes the stubble, And the chaff sinks in flames, Their root will be like decay, And their bud will disappear like dust; For they
have rejected the instruction of Jehovah of hosts And despised the speaking of the Holy One of Israel.
5:25 所以耶和华的怒气向祂的百姓发作，祂的手伸出击打他们。山岭震动，他们的尸首在街市上好像粪土。虽然如此，祂的怒气还未转消，祂的手仍然伸
出。
For this reason the anger of Jehovah burns against His people, And He stretches out His hand over them and strikes them. And the mountains quake, and their
corpses are Like garbage in the middle of the street. In spite of all this His anger is not turned away; Rather, His hand is still stretched out.
5:26 祂必高举旌旗，招远方的国民，发啸声叫他们从地极而来；他们必急速奔来。
He also lifts up a standard to a distant nation, And whistles to it from the ends of the earth; And indeed it comes with swift speed.
5:27 他们中间没有疲倦的、绊跌的，没有打盹的、睡觉的；他们的腰带并不放松，鞋带也不折断。
None of them is weary, and none stumbles among them; No one slumbers or sleeps; And their belts are not loosened at their waists, Nor are their sandal thongs
broken.
5:28 他们的箭快利，弓也上了弦；马蹄算如坚石，车轮好像旋风。
The arrows of these are sharpened, And all their bows are drawn; The hooves of their horses are considered to be like flint, And their chariot wheels like a
whirlwind.
5:29 他们要吼叫像狮子，咆哮像少壮狮子；他们要咆哮抓食，安然叼去，无人搭救。
Their roar is like a lion's, And they roar like young lions; When they growl and seize prey, They carry it away safe, and there is none to rescue it.
5:30 那日他们要向以色列人吼叫，像海浪匉訇。人若望地，只见黑暗艰难，亮光在云中变为昏暗。
And they will growl over it in that day, Like the roaring of the sea. When one will look upon the land, indeed, there will be darkness and distress, And the light will
be darkened with its clouds.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 6 章
6:1 当乌西雅王崩的那年，我看见主坐在高高的宝座上，祂的衣袍垂下，遮满圣殿。
In the year that King Uzziah died I saw the Lord sitting on a high and lofty throne, and the train of His robe filled the temple.
6:2 其上有撒拉弗侍立，各有六个翅膀：用两个翅膀遮脸，两个翅膀遮脚，两个翅膀飞翔。
Seraphim hovered over Him, each having six wings: With two he covered his face, and with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew.
6:3 彼此呼喊说，圣哉，圣哉，圣哉，万军之耶和华；祂的荣光充满全地。
And one called to the other, saying: Holy, holy, holy, Jehovah of hosts; The whole earth is filled with His glory.
6:4 因呼喊者的声音，门槛的根基震动，殿充满了烟云。
And the foundations of the threshold shook at the voice of him who called, and the house was filled with smoke.
6:5 那时我说，祸哉，我灭亡了！因为我是嘴唇不洁的人，又住在嘴唇不洁的民中；又因我眼见大君王万军之耶和华。
Then I said, Woe is me, for I am finished! For I am a man of unclean lips, And in the midst of a people of unclean lips I dwell; Yet my eyes have seen the King,
Jehovah of hosts.
6:6 撒拉弗中有一位飞到我跟前，手里拿着红炭，是用火剪从坛上取下来的。
Then one of the seraphim flew to me with an ember in his hand, which he had taken from the altar with a pair of tongs.
6:7 他用炭沾我的口，说，看哪，这炭沾了你的嘴唇，你的罪孽便除掉，你的罪就遮盖了。
And he touched my mouth with it and said, Now that this has touched your lips, Your iniquity is taken away, and your sin is purged.
6:8 我又听见主的声音，说，我可以差遣谁呢？谁肯为我们去呢？我说，我在这里，请差遣我。
Then I heard the voice of the Lord, saying, Whom shall I send? Who will go for Us? And I said, Here am I; send me.
6:9 祂说，你去对这百姓说，你们听是要听见，却绝不领悟；看是要看见，却绝不晓得。
And He said to me, Go and say to this people, Hear indeed, but do not perceive; And see indeed, but do not understand.
6:10 你要使这百姓心蒙脂油，耳朵发沉，眼睛封闭；恐怕他们眼睛看见，耳朵听见，心里领悟，回转过来，便得医治。
Make the heart of this people numb; Dull their ears, And seal their eyes; Lest they see with their eyes and hear with their ears, And their heart perceive and return,
and they are healed.
6:11 我就说，主阿，这到几时为止呢？祂说，直到城邑荒废，无人居住，房屋空闲无人，地土废弃荒凉；
And I said, For how long, Lord? And He said, Until cities lie devastated, Without inhabitants, And houses are without people, And the land is devastated and a
waste;
6:12 并且耶和华将人迁到远方，在这境内撇弃的地方甚多。
And Jehovah has sent men far away from it, And desolate places abound in the midst of the land.
6:13 境内若还有十分之一，也必再被摧残；像栗树或橡树，虽被砍伐，树不却仍存留；这树不就是圣别的后裔。
But there will still be a tenth part in it; And it in turn is to be burned Like a terebinth or an oak, Whose stump remains after its felling; Its stump will be a holy seed.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 7 章
7:1 乌西雅的孙子约坦的儿子犹大王亚哈斯在位的日子，亚兰王利汛，和利玛利的儿子以色列王比加上来攻打耶路撒冷，却不能攻取。
In the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, the king of Judah, Rezin the king of Aram and Pekah the son of Remaliah, the king of Israel, went up to
Jerusalem to wage war against it, but they were not able to prevail against it.
7:2 有人告诉大卫家说，亚兰与以法莲已经同盟，王的心和百姓的心就都震动，好像林中的树在风前震动一样。
And it was reported to the house of David that Aram allied with Ephraim, and his heart and the heart of his people quivered as the trees of the forest quiver in the
face of a wind.
7:3 那时，耶和华对以赛亚说，你和你的儿子施亚雅述出去，到上池的水沟尽头，在通往漂布者田间的大路上，去迎接亚哈斯；
Then Jehovah said to Isaiah, Go out to meet Ahaz, you and Shear-jashub your son, at the end of the conduit of the upper pool, on the road to the Fuller's Field;
675
7:4 对他说，你要谨慎安静；不要因亚兰人利汛和利玛利的儿子，这两个冒烟的火把头所发的烈怒害怕，也不要心怯。
And say to him, Be careful and be quiet; do not fear, and do not be faint hearted because of these two smoking firebrand stubs, at the burning anger of Rezin
and Aram, and the son of Remaliah.
7:5 因为亚兰，和以法莲并利玛利的儿子，设恶谋害你，说，
Because Aram and Ephraim and the son of Remaliah have planned evil against you, saying,
7:6 我们上去攻击犹大，惊吓她，将她攻破归与我们，在其中立他比勒的儿子为王；
Let us go up against Judah and make it sick with terror and break it open for ourselves, and let us set the son of Tabel in its midst as king;
7:7 主耶和华如此说，这所谋的必立不住，也不得成就。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, It shall not stand, and it shall not happen;
7:8 原来亚兰的首城是大马色，大马色的首领是利汛；六十五年之内，以法莲必然破坏，不再成为一族之民。
For the head of Aram is Damascus, And the head of Damascus is Rezin; And in another sixty-five years Ephraim will be shattered as a people.
7:9 以法莲的首城是撒玛利亚，撒玛利亚的首领是利玛利的儿子；你们若是不信，必不得稳固。
And the head of Ephraim is Samaria, And the head of Samaria is the son of Remaliah; If you do not believe, surely you will not remain standing.
7:10 耶和华又对亚哈斯说，
Then Jehovah spoke further to Ahaz, saying,
7:11 你向耶和华你的神求一个兆头，或如阴间之深，或如高天之高。
Ask for a sign from Jehovah your God; make it as deep as Sheol, or make it as high as high can go.
7:12 亚哈斯说，我不求，我不试探耶和华。
And Ahaz said, I will not ask, and I will not try Jehovah.
7:13 以赛亚说，大卫家阿，你们当听，你们使人厌烦岂算小事，还要使我的神厌烦么？
And he said, Hear now, O house of David, is it too small a thing for you to exhaust the patience of men that you will exhaust the patience of my God as well?
7:14 因此，主自己要给你们一个兆头：看哪，必有童女怀孕生子，她要给他起名叫以马内利。
Therefore the Lord Himself will give you a sign: Behold, the virgin will conceive and will bear a son, and she will call his name Immanuel.
7:15 他必吃奶酪与蜂蜜，直到他晓得弃恶择善的时候。
He will eat curds and honey until he knows how to refuse evil and choose good.
7:16 因为在这孩子还不晓得弃恶择善之先，你所惧怕的那二王之地，必至见弃。
For before this boy knows how to refuse evil and choose good, the land whose two kings you dread will be abandoned.
7:17 耶和华必使亚述王攻击你的日子，临到你和你的百姓，并你的父家；自从以法莲离开犹大以来，未曾有这样的日子。
Jehovah will bring upon you and your people and the house of your father such days as have not been since the days when Ephraim turned away from Judah;
He will bring upon you the king of Assyria.
7:18 那日，耶和华要向埃及江河尽头的苍蝇，和亚述地的蜂子发啸声。
And in that day Jehovah will whistle for the flies which are at the ends of the rivers of Egypt and for the bees which are in the land of Assyria.
7:19 它们都必飞来，落在险峻的峡谷内、磐石的裂缝里、和一切荆棘丛中、并一切饮水之处。
And they will all come and settle in the steep ravines and the clefts of the cliffs and on all the thornbushes and on all watering places.
7:20 那日，主必用大河外赁来的剃头刀，就是亚述王，剃去头发，和脚上的毛，并要剃净胡须。
In that day the Lord will shave with the razor hired from beyond the River, with the king of Assyria, the head and the hair of the legs; and it will take away the
beard as well.
7:21 那日，一个人只能养活一只母牛犊、两只母绵羊；
And in that day each man will keep alive only a milk cow and two females of the flock.
7:22 因为出的奶多，他就得吃奶酪；在境内所剩的人，都要吃奶酪与蜂蜜。
And because of the abundance of milk produced, he will eat curds; for everyone left behind in the midst of the land will eat curds and honey.
7:23 从前凡种一千棵葡萄树，值银一千舍客勒的地方，到那日，必长荆棘和蒺藜。
And in that day every place where there could be a thousand vines, worth a thousand shekels of silver, will become thorns and thistles.
7:24 人到那里去，必带弓箭，因为遍地满了荆棘和蒺藜。
Men will come there with arrows and bow, for all the land will be thorns and thistles.
7:25 所有用锄刨挖的山地，你因怕荆棘和蒺藜，不敢到那里去；那里成了放牛之处，为羊践踏之地。
And to all the hills that once were hoed with the hoe you will not go for fear of thorns and thistles; but they will become a place for cattle to roam in and for sheep
to trample.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 8 章
8:1 耶和华对我说，你取一面大牌，用人常用的字写上：为玛黑珥，沙拉勒，哈施，罢斯；
Then Jehovah said to me, Take a large tablet and write on it in plain letters, For Maher-shalal-hash-baz;
8:2 我要用忠信的见证人，祭司乌利亚和耶比利家的儿子撒迦利亚，为我作证。
And I will take faithful witnesses, Urijah the priest and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah.
8:3 我以赛亚与妻子亲近，她就怀孕生子。耶和华对我说，给他起名叫玛黑珥．沙拉勒．哈施．罢斯，
And I went to the prophetess, and she conceived and bore a son. And Jehovah said to me, Call his name Maher-shalal- hash-baz,
8:4 因为在这小孩子不晓得叫父叫母之先，大马色的财宝和撒玛利亚的掳物，必在亚述王面前搬了去。
For before this boy knows how to call, Father, and, Mother, they will carry off the wealth of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria before the king of Assyria.
8:5 耶和华又进一步对我说，
Then Jehovah spoke further to me, saying,
8:6 这百姓既厌弃西罗亚缓流的水，且喜悦利汛和利玛利的儿子；
Because these people have rejected The gently flowing waters of Shiloah, and exult In Rezin and the son of Remaliah,
8:7 因此，主必使大河汹涌浩大的水，就是亚述王和他所有的威荣，上来淹没他们；那河必漫过一切的水道，涨过所有的河岸；
676
Now therefore the Lord is bringing up upon them The mighty and abundant waters of the Euphrates, The king of Assyria and all his glory; And it will overflow all its
channels, And go over all its banks.
8:8 必冲入犹大，涨溢泛滥，直到颈项；以马内利阿，那河展开翅膀，遍满你的地。
It will sweep through Judah; it will overflow and rise Until it reaches the neck; And the spreading out of its wings Will fill the breadth of Your land, O Immanuel.
8:9 众民哪，你们要被击溃，要被破坏；地上远方的众人哪，你们当侧耳听：任凭你们束起腰来，终必破坏；任凭你们束起腰来，终必破坏。
Be broken, O peoples, and be shattered; Hearken, all you distant places of the earth: Gird yourselves, yet be shattered; Gird yourselves, yet be shattered.
8:10 任凭你们策画，终必失败；任凭你们言定，终不成立；因为神与我们同在。
Take counsel, yet it will be frustrated; Speak the word, yet it will not stand; For God is with us.
8:11 耶和华以大能这样对我说话，指教我不可行这百姓所行的道路，说，
For Jehovah spoke to me in this way with great force and instructed me not to walk in the way of this people, saying,
8:12 凡这百姓所称为同谋背叛的，你们不要称之为同谋背叛；他们所怕的，你们不要怕，也不要畏惧。
You shall not call it conspiracy All that this people calls conspiracy; And you shall not fear what they fear nor be awed by it.
8:13 你们要尊万军之耶和华为圣；祂是你们所当怕的，也是你们所当畏惧的。
You shall sanctify Jehovah of hosts; He shall be the One to fear and He shall be the One to be awed by.
8:14 祂必作为圣所，却向以色列两家作绊脚的石头，并跌人的磐石，向耶路撒冷的居民作为圈套和网罗。
Then He will become a sanctuary, yet a stone to strike against And a rock of stumbling To both houses of Israel, A trap and a snare to the inhabitants of
Jerusalem.
8:15 许多人必在其上绊脚跌倒，而且跌碎，并陷入网罗，被捉住。
And many will stumble at these, And will fall and be broken to pieces, And will be snared and taken captive.
8:16 你要卷起律法书，在我门徒中间封住训诲。
Bind up the testimony; seal the instruction among my disciples;
8:17 我要等候那掩面不顾雅各家的耶和华，我也要切切仰望祂。
And I will wait on Jehovah, who hides His face from the house of Jacob, and I will look eagerly for Him.
8:18 看哪，我与耶和华所给我的儿女，就是从住在锡安山万军之耶和华来的，在以色列中作为兆头和奇事。
See, I and the children whom Jehovah has given me are for signs and wonders in Israel from Jehovah of hosts, who abides on Mount Zion.
8:19 有人对你们说，当求问那些交鬼的和行巫术的，就是声音啁啾、喃喃细语的；你们便回答说，百姓不当求问自己的神么？岂可为活人求问死人么？
When they say to you, Inquire of the necromancers and the familiar spirits, who twitter and mutter; say to them, Should not a people inquire of their God? Should
they go to the dead on behalf of the living -
8:20 当以训诲和法度为标准！他们所说的，若不与这话相符，必是因他们没有晨光。
To the law and to the testimony! If they do not speak according to this word, it is because in them there is no dawn.
8:21 他们必经过这地，受艰难，受饥饿；饥饿的时候就焦躁，咒骂自己的君王和自己的神。他们仰脸望天，
And they go through it hard-pressed and hungry; and when they are hungry, they rage and curse their king and their God. They turn their faces upward,
8:22 俯视大地，不料，尽是艰难、黑暗、和困苦的幽暗，他们必被赶入漆黑之中。
And they look to the earth, but, there is only distress and darkness, the gloom of anguish and being thrust into darkness.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 9 章
9:1 但那受过困苦之处，必不再见幽暗：从前神使西布伦地和拿弗他利地被藐视，末后却使这沿海的路，约但河外，外邦人的加利利，得着荣耀。
But gloom does not remain in the place where there was anguish: formerly He treated the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali contemptibly, but afterward
He treats the way of the sea, across the Jordan, with glory, Galilee of the nations.
9:2 那行走在黑暗中的百姓，看见了大光；那些住在死荫之地的人，有光照耀他们。
The people who walked in the darkness Have seen a great light; Upon those who dwell in the land of the shadow of death Light has shined.
9:3 你使这国民繁多，加增他们的喜乐；他们在你面前欢喜，好像收割时的欢喜，像人分掳物那样的快乐。
You have multiplied the nation; You have increased their gladness; They are glad before You as with the gladness of harvest, As men rejoice when they divide the
spoil.
9:4 因为他们所负的重轭和肩头上的杖，就是欺压他们之人的棍，你已经折断，好像在米甸的日子一样。
For You break the yoke of their burden And the staff on their shoulder, The rod of their oppressor, As in the day of Midian.
9:5 战士在鏖战震地之中所穿的战靴，并那辊在血中的衣服，都必作为可烧的，当作燃料。
For all the boots Of those who in boots trample in the battle quake And the garments Rolled in blood Are for burning; They are fuel for fire.
9:6 因有一婴孩为我们而生，有一子赐给我们；政权必担在祂的肩头上；祂的名称为奇妙的策士、全能的神、永远的父、和平的君。
For a child is born to us, A son is given to us; And the government Is upon His shoulder; And His name will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Eternal
Father, Prince of Peace.
9:7 祂的政权与平安必加增无穷，祂必在大卫的宝座上，治理祂的国，以公平公义使国坚定稳固，从今时直到永远。万军之耶和华的热心，必成就这事。
To the increase of His government And to His peace there is no end, Upon the throne of David And over His kingdom, To establish it And to uphold it In justice
and righteousness From now to eternity. The zeal of Jehovah of hosts Will accomplish this.
9:8 主发言指责雅各，这话落于以色列。
The Lord sends out a word against Jacob, And it descends upon Israel.
9:9 众百姓，就是以法莲和撒玛利亚的居民，都要知道；他们凭骄傲和自大的心说，
And all the people know it, Ephraim and the inhabitants of Samaria, Saying in pride and haughtiness of heart,
9:10 砖墙塌了，我们却要凿石头建筑；桑树砍了，我们却要换上香柏树。
The bricks have fallen, but we will build with cut stone; The sycamores have been felled, but we will put cedars in their place.
9:11 因此，耶和华要高举利汛的敌人，来攻击以色列，并要激动以色列的仇敌。
Then Jehovah exalts the adversaries of Rezin against them And goads their enemies on.
9:12 东有亚兰人，西有非利士人：他们张口吞吃以色列。虽然如此，耶和华的怒气还未转消，祂的手仍然伸出。
Aram from the east and the Philistines from the west: They devour Israel with an open mouth. By all this His anger is not turned; His hand is still outstretched.
677
9:13 这百姓还没有归向击打他们的主，也没有寻求万军之耶和华。
Yet the people do not turn to Him who strikes them, Nor do they seek Jehovah of hosts.
9:14 因此，耶和华一日之间，从以色列中剪除头与尾，棕枝与芦苇。
Then Jehovah cuts off from Israel head and tail, Palm branch and marsh reed in one day.
9:15 长老和显贵人，就是头；以谎言教人的申言者，就是尾。
The elder and the highly regarded-he is the head; The prophet and the teacher of falsehood-he is the tail.
9:16 那些引导这百姓的，使他们走错了路；那些被引导的，都陷入混乱。
And those who lead this people are those who mislead them; And those who are led are those who are confused.
9:17 所以主必不喜悦他们的少年人，也不怜恤他们的孤儿寡妇；因为他们都是不虔敬的，是行恶的，并且各人的口都说愚妄的话。虽然如此，耶和华的怒
气还未转消，祂的手仍然伸出。
Because of this the Lord will not rejoice in their young men, And He will not have compassion on their orphans and widows; For all of them are profane and
evildoers, And every mouth speaks foolishness. By all this His anger is not turned; His hand is still outstretched.
9:18 邪恶像火焚烧，烧灭荆棘和蒺藜；在丛林中着起来，就旋转上腾，成为烟柱。
For wickedness burns like a fire; It devours thorn and thistle, And burns in the forest thickets; And it rolls up into a column of smoke.
9:19 因万军之耶和华的盛怒，地被烧毁，百姓成为燃料，无人怜惜自己的弟兄。
At the overflowing wrath of Jehovah of hosts a land is burned up, And the people are like fuel for fire; No one spares even his brother.
9:20 有人切割右边的肉，仍受饥饿；吞吃左边，仍不饱足。各人吞吃自己膀臂上的肉：
One carves on the right side, but is hungry; And another eats on the left side, but is not satisfied. Each eats the flesh of his own arm:
9:21 玛拿西吞吃以法莲，以法莲吞吃玛拿西；又一同攻击犹大。虽然如此，耶和华的怒气还未转消，祂的手仍然伸出。
Manasseh, Ephraim, and Ephraim, Manasseh; These together against Judah. By all this His anger is not turned; His hand is still outstretched.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 10 章
10:1 祸哉，那些制定不义之律例，忙于记录凶恶之判语的；
Woe to those who decree decrees of iniquity, To the busy writers who are busy writing trouble,
10:2 他们要藉此屈枉穷乏人的案情，夺去我民中困苦人的公理，好使寡妇成为他们的掳物，孤儿成为他们的掠物。
In order to turn the poor away from judgment, And to tear justice away from the afflicted among my people; That widows may be their spoil, And they may
plunder orphans.
10:3 到降罚的日子，有灾祸从远方临到，那时你们怎样行呢？你们向谁逃奔求助呢？你们的荣耀撇在何处呢？
And what will you do for the day of visitation, And for the devastation that comes from afar? To whom will you flee for help? And where will you leave your glory,
10:4 他们只得屈身在被掳的人以下，仆倒在被杀的人以下。虽然如此，耶和华的怒气还未转消，祂的手仍然伸出。
Unless one crouches behind prisoners, And they fall behind the slain? By all this His anger is not turned; His hand is still outstretched.
10:5 祸哉，亚述，我怒气的棍！他们手中的杖就是我的恼恨。
Woe to Assyria, the rod of My anger! The staff which is in their hand is My indignation.
10:6 我打发他攻击不虔敬的国，吩咐他攻击我盛怒之下的百姓，抢掳来之财为掳物，夺掠来之货为掠物，将他们践踏，像街上的泥土一样。
Against a profane nation I send them out, And against the people of My overflowing wrath I command them, To make spoil of the spoil and to make plunder of
the plunder, To make them a trampling ground, like street mire.
10:7 然而他不这样想，他心也不这样打算；他心里倒想毁灭、剪除不少的国。
But they do not think so, And their heart does not conceive it so; For destroying is in their heart, And the cutting down of no few nations.
10:8 他说，我的臣宰岂不都是王么？
For they say, Are not my princes all kings?
10:9 迦勒挪岂不像迦基米施么？哈马岂不像亚珥拔么？撒玛利亚岂不像大马色么？
Is not Calno like Carchemish, Or Hamath like Arpad, Or Samaria like Damascus?
10:10 我的手既已构到有偶像的国，这些国雕制的偶像胜过耶路撒冷和撒玛利亚的偶像，
Since my hand has reached The kingdoms of the idols, And their graven images were greater than those of Jerusalem and Samaria,
10:11 我怎样待撒玛利亚和其中的偶像，岂不照样待耶路撒冷和其中的偶像么？
Shall I not do, as I have done To Samaria and its idols, The same to Jerusalem and its images?
10:12 但主在锡安山和耶路撒冷成就祂一切工作的时候，祂说，我必罚亚述王自大之心的果子，和他高傲眼目的荣耀。
But when the Lord has completed all His work on Mount Zion and on Jerusalem, He says, I will punish the fruit of the king of Assyria's haughtiness of heart and
the glory of his haughty eyes.
10:13 因为他说，我所成就的事，是靠我手的能力和我的智慧；我本有聪明。我挪移众民的地界，抢夺他们所积蓄的财宝，并且我像勇士，使坐宝座的降
为卑。
For he has said, By the strength of my own hand I have done it, And by my own wisdom; for I have understanding. And I have removed the boundaries of the
peoples; And their stored possessions I have plundered. And like a bull, I brought down those who sit on thrones.
10:14 我的手构到众民的财宝，好像人构到鸟窝；我也收聚了全地，好像人收聚被弃的雀蛋；没有动翅膀的，没有张嘴的，也没有鸣叫的。
And my hand reached in, like in a nest, For the wealth of the peoples; And like one who gathers abandoned eggs, I myself gathered in all the earth; And none
fluttered a wing, Or opened a beak and chirped.
10:15 斧岂可向用斧砍伐的自夸呢？锯岂可向用锯的自大呢？好比棍抡起那举棍的，好比杖举起那不是木头的人。
Should the ax glorify itself above him who chops with it? Or should the saw magnify itself above him who wields it? It would be like the rod wielding him who lifts
it up, Like the staff lifting up him who is not wood.
10:16 因此，主万军之耶和华必使亚述王的肥壮人变为瘦弱；在他的荣耀之下，必使火着起，如同焚烧一样。
Therefore the Lord Jehovah of hosts will send Leanness to his fat ones; And under his glory He will kindle a kindling, Like the kindling of fire.
10:17 以色列的光必成为火，他的圣者必成为火焰；在一日之间，将亚述王的荆棘和蒺藜，焚烧且烧灭；
And the Light of Israel will become a fire, And His Holy One a flame; And it will burn and devour his thorns And his thistles in one day.
10:18 又将他树林和肥田的荣耀，全然灭尽；他必像患病的人渐渐瘦弱一样。
678
The glory of his forest and of his garden land He will destroy, both soul and body; And he will be like a sick man wasting away.
10:19 他林中剩下的树必稀少，就是孩子也能写其数。
And what is left of the trees of his forest will be so few in number That a young boy could record them.
10:20 到那日，以色列所剩下的，和雅各家所逃脱的，必不再倚靠那击打他们的，却要诚实信靠耶和华以色列的圣者。
Then in that day the remnant of Israel and those of the house of Jacob who have escaped will no longer rely upon him who strikes them, but they will rely upon
Jehovah, the Holy One of Israel, in truth.
10:21 所剩下的，就是雅各家所剩下的，必归回全能的神。
A remnant will return, the remnant of Jacob, to the mighty God.
10:22 以色列阿，你的百姓虽多如海沙，惟有剩下的归回。灭绝的事已定，必有公义如水涨溢。
For though your people, O Israel, are like the sand of the sea, only a remnant among them will return. Annihilation is strictly decided, overflowing with
righteousness.
10:23 因为主万军之耶和华，正在全地之中成就所定灭绝的事。
For utter destruction and a strict decision is the Lord Jehovah of hosts performing in the midst of the whole land.
10:24 所以主万军之耶和华如此说，住锡安我的百姓阿，亚述虽然用棍击打你，又照埃及所行的举杖攻击你，你却不要怕他。
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah of hosts, O my people dwelling in Zion, do not fear Assyria, who strike with the rod and lift up their staff against you the way
Egypt did.
10:25 因为还有一点点时候，我向你发的忿恨就要完毕，我的怒气要转向他们，使他们灭亡。
For in a very little while My indignation will be completed, and My anger will be turned toward their destruction.
10:26 万军之耶和华要兴起鞭来攻击他们，好像在俄立磐石那里击杀米甸人一样；耶和华的杖要向海伸出，祂要照祂在埃及所行的，把杖举起。
And against them Jehovah of hosts will rouse up a whip like the stroke against Midian at the rock of Oreb; and His staff will be over the sea, and He will lift it up
the way He did in Egypt.
10:27 到那日，亚述的重担必离开你的肩头，他的轭必离开你的颈项；那轭也必因肥壮的缘故撑断。
And in that day their burden will be removed from your shoulders, and their yoke from off your neck; and the yoke will be broken due to the fatness.
10:28 亚述来攻击亚叶，经过米矶仑，在密抹安放辎重。
He comes against Aiath; He passes through Migron; At Michmash he deposits his gear.
10:29 他们过了隘口，说，迦巴是我们住宿的地方。拉玛人战兢；扫罗的基比亚人逃跑。
They go through the pass, saying, Geba will be our lodging overnight. Ramah is quaking; Gibeah of Saul flees away.
10:30 迦琳的女子阿，要高声呼喊！莱煞人哪，要留心听！哀哉，困苦的亚拿突人哪！
Scream with your voice, O daughter of Gallim! Listen carefully, Laishah! O poor Anathoth!
10:31 玛得米那人逃遁；基柄的居民避难。
Madmenah flees; The inhabitants of Gebim seek refuge.
10:32 直到今日仍是如此；亚述在挪伯停留，向锡安女子的山，就是耶路撒冷的冈陵，抡手攻击。
So it is until this day when he halts at Nob. He swings his hand over the mountain of the daughter of Zion, Over the hill of Jerusalem.
10:33 看哪，主万军之耶和华以可怕的震撼削去树枝：长高的必被砍下，高大的必被伐低。
But now the Lord Jehovah of hosts Is lopping off the boughs with an awful crash: Those which are tall in height are hewn down, And those which are lofty are laid
low.
10:34 祂要用铁器砍下丛林；利巴嫩必倒在威严者手下。
And He chops away the forest thickets with an iron ax; And Lebanon falls at the hands of a majestic One.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 11 章
11:1 从耶西的不必发嫩条，从他根生的枝子必结果实。
Then a sprout will come forth from the stump of Jesse, And a branch from his roots will bear fruit.
11:2 耶和华的灵必安歇在祂身上，就是智慧和聪明的灵，谋略和能力的灵，知识和敬畏耶和华的灵。
And the Spirit of Jehovah will rest upon Him, The Spirit of wisdom and understanding, The Spirit of counsel and might, The Spirit of knowledge and the fear of
Jehovah.
11:3 祂必以敬畏耶和华为乐：审判不凭眼见，判断也不凭耳闻；
He will delight in the fear of Jehovah: He will neither judge by what His eyes see, Nor decide by what His ears hear.
11:4 却要以公义审判贫穷人，以公正判断地上的困苦人；以口中的杖击打这地；以嘴里的气杀戮恶人。
But He will judge the poor in righteousness, And decide with equity for the afflicted of the land. And He will strike the land with the rod of His mouth, And with the
breath of His lips He will slay the wicked.
11:5 公义必当祂的腰带，信实必当祂胁下的带子。
Righteousness will be that which girds His loins, And faithfulness will be that which girds His hips.
11:6 豺狼必与绵羊羔同居，豹子必与山羊羔同卧；牛犊、少壮狮子并肥畜同群；小孩子要牵引它们。
And the wolf will dwell with the lamb; And the leopard will lie down with the kid, And the calf and the young lion and the fatling together; And a young boy will
lead them about.
11:7 牛必与熊同食；它们的崽子必一同躺卧；狮子必吃草与牛一样。
The cow and the bear will graze; Their young will lie down together; And the lion will eat straw like the ox.
11:8 吃奶的孩子必玩耍在虺蛇的洞口，断奶的婴儿必按手在毒蛇的穴上。
The nursing child will play by the cobra's hole, And upon the viper's den The weaned child will stretch his hand.
11:9 在我圣山的遍处，这些都不伤人，不害物，因为对耶和华的认识充满遍地，好像水充满洋海一般。
They will not harm nor destroy In all My holy mountain, For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of Jehovah, As water covers the sea.
11:10 到那日，耶西的根立作众民的旌旗；外邦人必寻求祂；祂安息之所必有荣耀。
And in that day the root of Jesse, Who stands as a banner to the peoples-Him will the nations seek, And His resting place will be the glory.
11:11 当那日，主必再次伸手得回自己百姓中所余剩的，就是在亚述、埃及、巴忒罗、古实、以拦、示拿、哈马、并众海岛所剩下的。
679
And in that day the Lord, By His hand for the second time again, Will recover the remnant of His people Who remain, from Assyria and from Egypt, From Pathros,
Cush, and Elam, From Shinar, Hamath, and the islands of the sea.
11:12 祂必向列国高举旌旗，招聚以色列被赶散的人，又从地的四方聚集分散的犹大人。
He will lift up a standard to the nations, And will gather the outcasts of Israel; And the dispersed of Judah He will assemble From the four corners of the earth.
11:13 以法莲的妒忌就必消除，敌对犹大的必被剪除；以法莲必不妒忌犹大，犹大也不敌对以法莲。
And Ephraim's jealousy will depart, And the adversaries in Judah will be cut off; Ephraim will not be jealous of Judah, Nor will Judah be hostile to Ephraim.
11:14 他们要向西飞，扑在非利士人的肩头上，一同掳掠东方人。他们要伸手拿住以东和摩押，亚扪人也必服从他们。
And they will fly down upon the shoulders of the Philistines on the west; Together they will plunder the children of the east. Edom and Moab will come into the
grasp of their hand, And the children of Ammon will submit to them.
11:15 耶和华必使埃及海湾枯干；用祂暴热的风抡手，击打大河，使其分为七条溪流，令人过去不至湿脚。
And Jehovah will utterly destroy the tongue of the sea of Egypt; And will wave His hand over the River with the scorching of His wind, And He will strike it into
seven streams, And march men through it dryshod.
11:16 必有一条大道，让主余剩的百姓从亚述归回，如当日有大道让以色列从埃及地上来一样。
And there will be a highway from Assyria For the remnant of His people which remain, As there was for Israel In the day that they came up from the land of Egypt.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 12 章
12:1 到那日，你必说，耶和华阿，我要赞美你。你虽曾向我发怒，你的怒气却已转消，你又安慰了我。
And you will say in that day, I will praise You, O Jehovah. You were angry with me, But Your anger has turned and You have consoled me.
12:2 看哪，神是我的拯救；我要信靠祂，并不惧怕；因为主耶和华是我的力量，是我的诗歌，祂也成了我的拯救。
God is now my salvation; I will trust and not dread; For Jah Jehovah is my strength and song, And He has become my salvation.
12:3 所以你们必从救恩之泉欢然取水，
Therefore you will draw water with rejoicing From the springs of salvation,
12:4 在那日，你们要说，当称谢耶和华，呼求祂的名！将祂所行的传扬在万民中，题说祂的名已被尊崇。
And you will say in that day, Give thanks to Jehovah; call upon His name! Make His deeds known among the peoples; Remind them that His name is exalted.
12:5 你们要向耶和华歌颂，因祂所行的甚是超绝！但愿这事传遍全地！
Sing psalms to Jehovah, for He has done something majestic! Let it be made known in all the earth!
12:6 锡安的居民哪，当扬声欢呼，因为以色列的圣者在你们中间乃为至大。
Cry out and give a ringing shout, O inhabitant of Zion, For great in your midst is the Holy One of Israel.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 13 章
13:1 亚摩斯的儿子以赛亚所得关于巴比伦的默示：
The burden concerning Babylon, which Isaiah the son of Amoz saw:
13:2 应当在光秃的山上高举旌旗，向他们扬声招手，使他们进入贵胄的门。
Upon a bare mountain raise up a standard; Lift up your voice to them. Wave your hand that they may enter The gates of the nobles.
13:3 我吩咐我所分别的人；我也招呼我的勇士，就是那些因我的威严夸耀的人，为要成就我怒中所定的。
I Myself have commanded My sanctified ones; I have also called My mighty ones to My wrath, Those who exult in My majesty.
13:4 山间有喧嚷的声音，好像是众多的人民！有多国哄嚷的声音，是列国聚集的声音！这是万军之耶和华点齐军队，预备打仗。
The sound of a tumult in the mountains, Like that of many peoples! The sound of an uproar of the kingdoms, Of nations gathered together! Jehovah of hosts is
mustering An army for battle.
13:5 他们从远地来，从天边来，就是耶和华并祂恼恨的工具，要毁灭全地。
They are coming from a distant land, From the ends of heaven-Jehovah and the instruments of His indignation-To ruin all the land.
13:6 你们要哀号，因为耶和华的日子临近了！这日要来到，好像毁灭从全能者来到一样。
Howl, for the day of Jehovah has drawn near! As destruction from the Almighty, it will come.
13:7 所以人手都必发软，人心都必融化。
Because of this all the hands will drop, And every human heart will melt;
13:8 他们必惊惶失措，疼痛与痛苦必将他们抓住；他们必绞痛，好像生产的妇人一样；各人与邻舍惊愕对望，脸如火焰。
And people will be dismayed. Pangs and anguish will seize them; Like a woman giving birth, they will writhe. Each man will look toward his neighbor
dumbfounded; Their faces are inflamed.
13:9 看哪，耶和华的日子临到，是残忍的，有盛怒和烈怒，使这地荒凉；祂必从其中除灭罪人。
Now the day of Jehovah is coming-Cruel and with overflowing wrath and burning anger-To make the land a desolation; And He will destroy its sinners off of it.
13:10 天上的众星群宿都不发光；日头一出就变黑暗，月亮也不放光。
For the stars of heaven and their constellations Will not shine forth their light; The sun will be dark at its rising, And the moon will not let its light shine.
13:11 我必因邪恶刑罚世界，因罪孽刑罚恶人；我要使骄傲人的狂妄止息，使强暴人的狂傲降为卑。
And I will punish the world for its evil, And the wicked for their iniquity; I will stop the arrogance of the proud, And the haughtiness of the terrible I will abase.
13:12 我必使人比精金还稀少，使人比俄斐金更稀少。
I will make mortal man rarer than pure gold, And mankind rarer than the gold of Ophir.
13:13 为此，我万军之耶和华必在盛怒之中，在发烈怒的日子，使天震动，使地摇撼，离其本位。
Hence, I will make the heavens shake, And the earth will quake out of its place, At the overflowing wrath of Jehovah of hosts, In the day of His burning anger.
13:14 人必像被追赶的羚羊，像无人收聚的羊，各归回本族，各逃到本土。
And like the hunted gazelle And sheep without someone to gather them, Each man will turn to his own people, And each will flee to his own land.
13:15 凡被仇敌找着的，必被刺死；凡被捉住的，必倒在刀下。
Everyone found will be pierced through, And everyone caught will fall by the sword.
680
13:16 他们的婴孩必在他们眼前摔碎；他们的房屋必被抢夺，他们的妻子必被玷污。
And their little ones will be dashed to pieces Before their eyes; Their houses will be plundered, And their wives will be attacked.
13:17 看哪，我激动玛代人来攻击他们；玛代人不注重银子，也不喜爱金子。
Now I rouse up the Medes against them, Who will not esteem silver highly, Nor take delight in gold.
13:18 他们必用弓击碎少年人，不怜恤妇人所生的，眼也不顾惜孩子。
Their bows will shatter the young men; And they will not have compassion on the fruit of the womb: Their eyes will have no pity on children.
13:19 巴比伦素来为列国的华美，为迦勒底人所夸耀的荣华，必像神所倾覆的所多玛、蛾摩拉一样：
And Babylon, the beauty of kingdoms, The glory of the Chaldeans' majesty, Will be as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah:
13:20 其内必永无居民，世世代代无人居住。亚拉伯人不在那里支搭帐棚，牧羊的人也不使羊群卧在那里。
It will not be inhabited forever; It will not be dwelt in from generation to generation. And the Arab will not set up his tent there, Nor will the shepherds make their
flocks lie down there.
13:21 只有旷野的走兽卧在那里，咆哮的兽满了房屋；鸵鸟住在那里，野山羊在那里跳跃；
But desert animals will lie down there, And their houses will be full of wild dogs; There ostriches will dwell, And wild goats will prance there;
13:22 豺狼必在巴比伦的宫中呼应，野狗必在华美的殿内呼号。巴比伦受罚的时候临近，她的日子必不久延。
Hyenas will respond in their citadels, And jackals in their exquisite palaces. Her time is about to come, And her days will not be prolonged.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 14 章
14:1 当耶和华怜恤雅各，再拣选以色列，将他们安置在本地时，寄居的必与他们联合，紧贴雅各家。
When Jehovah has compassion on Jacob and again chooses Israel and settles them in their land, the sojourners will join them and attach themselves to the
house of Jacob.
14:2 众民必将他们带回本土，以色列家必在耶和华的地上得这些民为仆婢；也要掳掠先前掳掠他们的，辖制先前欺压他们的。
And nations will take them and bring them to their place, and the house of Israel will take possession of them in the land of Jehovah as male and female servants;
and they will lead captive those who were their captors and rule over those who oppressed them.
14:3 当耶和华使你脱离痛苦、烦扰、并你受奴役所作的苦工，得享安息的日子，
In the day when Jehovah gives you rest from your pain and turmoil and from the hard service that was done by you as slaves,
14:4 你必题这诗歌论巴比伦王说，欺压人的何竟息灭！狂暴的何竟止息！
You will lift up this discourse concerning the king of Babylon and you will say: How the oppressor has ceased! How the raging has ceased!
14:5 耶和华折断了恶人的棍，掌权者的杖，
Jehovah has broken the staff of the wicked, The rod of rulers;
14:6 就是那在忿怒中不住击打众民，在怒气中辖制列国，行逼迫无人阻止的。
That struck the peoples in wrath, With strikes that would not stop; That ruled the nations in anger, With pursuit that would not let up.
14:7 现在全地得安息，享平静；人皆发声欢呼。
All the earth rests and is undisturbed; They break forth with a ringing shout.
14:8 甚至松树和利巴嫩的香柏树，都因你喜乐，说，自从你躺下，就没有人上来砍伐我们。
Even the cypress trees rejoice over you, And the cedars of Lebanon: Since you are brought down, no tree cutter Will come up against us.
14:9 你底下的阴间因你震动，要迎接你来临；又因你惊动一切在地上曾为首领的阴魂，并使一切曾为列国君王的，都离位站起。
Sheol beneath is excited because of you, That it will meet you when you come. It rouses the dead because of you, All the great ones of the earth. It makes all the
kings of the nations Rise from their thrones.
14:10 他们都要回应你说，你也变为软弱，像我们一样；你也成了我们的样子。
All of them will respond And say to you, Even you have been weakened, just as we have; You have become like us.
14:11 你的威势和你琴瑟的声音，都被带下阴间。你下面铺的是虫，上面盖的是蛆。
Your majesty has been brought down to Sheol, Even the sound of your harps. Beneath you maggots are spread; Worms are your covering.
14:12 明亮之星，清晨之子阿，你何竟从天坠落！你这攻败列国的，何竟被砍倒在地上！
How you have fallen from heaven, O Daystar, son of the dawn! How you have been hewn down to earth, You who made nations fall prostrate!
14:13 你心里曾说，我要升到天上；我要高举我的宝座在神众星以上。我要坐在聚会的山上，在北方的极处。
But you, you said in your heart: I will ascend to heaven; Above the stars of God I will exalt my throne. And I will sit upon the mount of assembly In the uttermost
parts of the north.
14:14 我要升到高云之上；我要使自己与至高者一样。
I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will make myself like the Most High.
14:15 然而你必坠落阴间，到坑中极深之处。
But you will be brought down to Sheol, To the uttermost parts of the pit.
14:16 凡看见你的，都要定睛看你；他们要留意看你，问说，那使地战抖，使列国震动，
Those who see you will gaze at you; They will ponder concerning you, asking, Is this the man who made the earth tremble, The one who shook kingdoms;
14:17 使世界如同荒野，使其城邑倾覆，不释放被囚者回家的，是这个人么？
Who made the world like a wilderness And tore down its cities; Who did not release his captives to their homes?
14:18 列国的君王俱各在自己的阴宅里，在荣耀中躺卧。
All the kings of the nations, All of them, lie in glory, Each in his own house.
14:19 惟独你被抛在你的坟墓之外，好像可憎恶的枝子；好像被杀之人的衣服，就是被刀刺透、坠落坑中石头那里之人的衣服；又像被践踏的尸首一样。
But you have been thrown out away from your tomb, Like some shoot that is viewed with disgust; Or like the garments of the slain, of those pierced with the
sword, Who go down to the stones of the pit; Like a corpse that has been trampled under.
14:20 你不得与君王同葬，因为你败坏了你的地，杀戮了你的民；作恶之人的后裔，必永不被题说。
You shall not be united with them in burial, For you have destroyed your land, You have slain your people; The seed of evildoers Will never be renowned.
14:21 祖宗既有罪孽，你们就要为他的子孙预备杀戮之处，免得他们兴起来，得了地土，在世上修满城邑。
681
Prepare a slaughterhouse for his children Because of the iniquity of their fathers, So that they do not rise up and possess the land, And fill the surface of the world
with cities.
14:22 万军之耶和华说，我必兴起攻击他们，将巴比伦的名号和所余剩的人，连子带孙一并剪除；这是耶和华说的。
And I will rise up against them, Declares Jehovah of hosts. And I will cut off from Babylon name and remnant, And posterity and progeny, declares Jehovah of
hosts.
14:23 我必使巴比伦为箭猪所得，变为池沼；我要用毁灭的扫帚将其扫净；这是万军之耶和华说的。
And I will make it a possession for porcupines And muddied pools of water, And I will sweep it with the broom of destruction, Declares Jehovah of hosts.
14:24 万军之耶和华起誓说，我怎样思想，必照样成就；我怎样定意，必照样成立；
Jehovah of hosts has sworn, saying, Surely just as I conceived it, so has it happened; And just as I have purposed it, so shall this stand,
14:25 就是在我的地上击破亚述，在我的山上将他践踏。他加的轭必离开以色列人，他加的重担必离开他们的肩头。
That I will break Assyria in My land, And upon My mountains I will trample him. Then his yoke will be taken off of them, And his burden will be removed from off
their shoulders.
14:26 这是向全地所定的旨意，这是向万国所伸出的手。
This is the purpose that I have purposed over all the earth, And this is the hand that is stretched out over all the nations.
14:27 万军之耶和华既然定意，谁能废弃呢？祂的手已经伸出，谁能使其转回呢？
For Jehovah of hosts has purposed it, and who will frustrate it? And thus His hand is stretched out, and who will turn it back?
14:28 亚哈斯王崩的那年，有以下的默示：
In the year that King Ahaz died this burden came:
14:29 非利士阿，你们众人不要因击打你们的杖折断就喜乐，因为从蛇的根必生出毒蛇；它所生的是会飞的火蛇。
Do not rejoice, all of you, Philistia, That the rod that strikes you is broken, For from the serpent's root a viper will come forth, And his fruit will be a flying fiery
serpent.
14:30 最贫寒的人必有所食，穷乏人必安然躺卧。我必以饥荒治死你的根，你所余剩的人必被杀戮。
And the poorest of the poor will feed, And the needy will lie down securely. And I will kill your root by famine, And he will slay your remnant.
14:31 门哪，应当哀号！城阿，应当呼喊！非利士阿，你们都丧胆了。因为有烟从北方来，他行伍中并无乱队的。
Howl, O gate! Cry out, O city! The whole of you, Philistia, is melted away. For from the north smoke has come, And there are no stragglers in his ranks.
14:32 人要怎样回答这国的使者呢？必说，耶和华建立了锡安，祂百姓中的困苦人，必投奔在其中。
And what shall one answer this nation's messengers? That Jehovah has founded Zion, And in her the poor of His people take refuge.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 15 章
15:1 关于摩押的默示：一夜之间，摩押的亚珥被毁坏剪除了。一夜之间，摩押的基珥被毁坏剪除了。
The burden concerning Moab: Indeed in a night it is devastated-Ar of Moab is cut off. Indeed in a night it is devastated-Kir of Moab is cut off.
15:2 他们上庙堂，又往底本，到高处去哭泣。摩押人因尼波和米底巴哀号，各人头上光秃，胡须剃净。
They have gone up to their temple and to Dibon, That is, to their high places, to weep. Over Nebo and over Medeba Moab howls; Upon all their heads is
baldness; Every beard is shaved off.
15:3 他们在街市上都腰束麻布；在房顶上和宽阔处，俱各哀号，眼泪汪汪。
In their streets they have girded themselves with sackcloth; On their roofs And in their open squares everyone will howl, Melting in tears.
15:4 希实本和以利亚利哀叫，他们的声音远达雅杂；因此摩押带兵器的高声喊嚷，人心战兢。
And Heshbon and Elealeh cry out; Their voice is heard as far as Jahaz. Because of this the armed men of Moab raise a cry; Their soul quivers within them.
15:5 我心为摩押哀叫；他的逃民直逃到琐珥，到伊基拉施利施亚；他们哭着上鲁希坡；在通往何罗念的路上，因毁灭举起哀声；
My heart cries out for Moab; Its fugitives reach as far as Zoar, as far as Eglath-shelishiyah: By the ascent of Luhith With weeping they will go up; On the way that
leads to Horonaim They will raise up a cry of destruction;
15:6 因为宁林的众水成为荒废；青草枯干，嫩草灭没，青绿之物一无所有。
The waters of Nimrim Will be a devastation; The foliage will be dried up, the grass wasted away; There will be nothing green.
15:7 因此，摩押人所生产并积蓄的财富，都要运过柳树河。
As a result, the abundance they have produced And placed in reserve Will be carried off To the poplar brook.
15:8 哀叫声遍及摩押的四境；哀号声达到以基莲，哀号声达到比珥以琳。
For the cry has gone about The border of Moab; Their howling goes as far as Eglaim, Even to Beer-elim their howling reaches.
15:9 底们的水充满了血；我还要将更多的灾难加于底们，叫狮子临到摩押逃脱的民，和那地上所余剩的人。
For the waters of Dimon are full of blood, For I will bring upon Dimon additional things: Lions upon those in Moab who escape And upon the remnant of the land.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 16 章
16:1 你们当将羊羔作贡物奉给那地掌权的，从西拉经过旷野，送到锡安城的山。
Send a lamb of tribute To the ruler of the land, From Sela across the wilderness To the mountain of the daughter of Zion.
16:2 摩押的居民在亚嫩渡口，必像游飞的鸟，如拆窝的雏。
Like wandering birds, Like a scattered nest, Will the daughters of Moab be At the fords of the Arnon.
16:3 求你给我们出谋略，作决断。求你使你的影子在午间如黑夜荫庇我们，把被赶散的人隐藏起来；不可显露流荡的人。
Give us counsel, Make a judgment concerning us. Make your shadow at high noon Like night to us. Hide the outcasts; Do not expose him who wanders.
16:4 求你让摩押被赶散的人和你同居；求你作他们的隐密处，脱离灭命者的面。当勒索人的归于无有，毁灭的事止息，欺压人的从那地除灭，
Let the outcasts of Moab Dwell with you; Be a hiding place to them From the destroyer. When the extortioner finishes And destruction ends, When the oppressor is
completely gone from the land,
16:5 那时必有宝座因慈爱坚立，必有一位凭真实坐在其上，在大卫的帐幕中施行审判，寻求公平，速行公义。
682
Then will a throne be established in lovingkindness, And upon it One will sit in truth In the tent of David, Judging and pursuing justice And hastening
righteousness.
16:6 我们听说摩押的骄傲，是极其骄傲，听说过他的狂妄、骄傲、忿怒；他夸大的话都是不真确的。
We have heard of the pride of Moab-He is extremely proud-Of his haughtiness and pride and insolence; His boastings are all untrue.
16:7 因此，摩押人必为摩押哀号；他们都要哀号。你们摩押人要为吉珥哈列设的葡萄饼哀叹，极其忧伤。
Therefore Moab will howl for Moab; They all will howl. For the raisin cakes of Kir-hareseth You will mourn, utterly.
16:8 因为希实本的田地和西比玛的葡萄树，都衰残了。列国的君主践踏其上美好的枝子，这枝子达到雅谢，蔓延到旷野；嫩枝向外探出，直探过盐海。
Because the fields of Heshbon have withered, And the vine of Sibmah, too. The lords of the nations Have trampled under its choicest vines, Which reached as far
as Jazer, Which meandered into the desert. Its shoots spread abroad; They crossed over to the sea.
16:9 因此，我要为西比玛的葡萄树哀哭，与雅谢人哀哭一样；希实本和以利亚利阿，我要以眼泪浇透你；因为在你夏天的果子并你收割的庄稼之上，收割
的欢呼已经不再有了。
Therefore I will weep bitterly for Jazer, For the vine of Sibmah; I will soak you with my tears, Heshbon and Elealeh. For the harvest shout is hushed Over your
summer fruit and over your reapings.
16:10 喜乐和欢腾从肥美的田中被取去了；在葡萄园里必无欢唱，也无欢呼的声音。踹酒的在酒醡中不得踹出酒来；我使收割的欢呼止息了。
Rejoicing is taken away, and exultation from the fruited field; In the vineyards there will be no singing for joy; no shouts will be uttered. The treader will not tread
out wine in the presses-I have made the harvest shout stop.
16:11 因此，我的心腹为摩押哀鸣如琴，我的里面为吉珥哈列设也是如此。
Therefore for Moab my bowels will moan like a lyre, And my inward parts for Kir-haresh.
16:12 摩押人尽管朝见他们的神，在高处使自己筋疲力尽，又到他们的圣所祷告，必没有成效。
And when Moab appears, When they weary themselves at their high place, And come to their sanctuary to pray, It will not avail.
16:13 这是耶和华从前所说关于摩押的话。
This is the word which Jehovah spoke concerning Moab long ago.
16:14 但现在耶和华说，三年之内，照雇工年数的算法，摩押的荣耀及其所有的群众，必被藐视，余剩的人必稀少无几。
And now Jehovah has spoken, saying, Within three years, like the years of a hired man, the glory of Moab will be disgraced, with all its great multitude, and its
remnant will be small-a mere trifle, nothing great.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 17 章
17:1 关于大马色的默示：看哪，大马色已被除灭，不再为城，必变作乱堆。
The burden concerning Damascus: See, Damascus-turned from being a city, It will become a heap of ruin.
17:2 亚罗珥的城邑必被撇弃；必成为牧放羊群之处，羊群在那里躺卧，无人惊吓。
The cities of Aroer will be forsaken; They will be for flocks That lie down with no one to frighten them.
17:3 以法莲不再有坚固城，大马色不再有国权；亚兰所剩下的，必像以色列人的荣耀消灭一样，这是万军之耶和华说的。
And fortified cities will cease to be in Ephraim, As well as the kingdom in Damascus; And the remnant of Syria Will be like the glory of the children of Israel,
Declares Jehovah of hosts.
17:4 到那日，雅各的荣耀必衰落，他肥胖的身体必消瘦。
In that day the glory of Jacob will fade, And the fat of his flesh will become lean.
17:5 就像收割的人收敛禾稼，用手割取穗子；又像人在利乏音谷拾取遗落的穗子。
And it will be as when the reaper gathers the standing grain, And his arms reap the ears; And it will be as when one gleans the ears In the valley of Rephaim.
17:6 其间虽有剩下的，却好像橄榄树被打过，在尽上的枝梢上只剩两三个果子，在多果树的旁枝上只剩四五个果子；这是耶和华以色列的神说的。
Yet gleanings will be left in it, Like at the shaking of an olive tree-Two or three fruit at the very top, Four or five in the boughs of the fruiting tree-Declares Jehovah
the God of Israel.
17:7 当那日，人必仰望造他的主，他的眼目必重看以色列的圣者。
In that day man will look to his Maker, And his eyes will behold the Holy One of Israel.
17:8 他必不仰望祭坛，就是自己手所筑的；也不重看自己指头所作的，就是木像和日像。
And he will not look to the altars, the works of his hands; And what his fingers have made he will not regard, That is, the Asherahs and the images to the sun.
17:9 在那日，他的护卫城必像树林中所撇弃的地方，又像从前在以色列人面前被撇弃的山顶；这样，地就荒凉了。
In that day his cities of protection will be Like abandoned places of the forest and like the mountaintop Which was abandoned before the children of Israel; And
there will be desolation.
17:10 因你忘记了救你的神，不记念护卫你的磐石；所以你栽上可悦的树秧子，插上献给别神的栽子。
For you have forgotten the God of your salvation, And the Rock of your stronghold you have not remembered. Therefore you plant plants of delight And set them
with plant cuttings to a strange god.
17:11 你在栽种的日子，仔细圈上篱笆，又在早晨使你所种的开花；但在忧患、伤痛无法医治的日子，所收割的不过一小堆。
On the day that you plant them you fence them in carefully, And in the morning you bring your seed to blossom; But the harvest is a heap on a day of sickness
And incurable pain.
17:12 祸哉！多民哄嚷，哄嚷犹如海浪匉訇；列邦喧哗，喧哗犹如猛水滔滔；
Woe! The roar of many peoples, Who roar like the roaring of the seas; The din of nations, Who crash like the crashing of mighty waters!
17:13 列邦喧哗，犹如多水滔滔。但神斥责他们，他们就远远逃避，又被追赶，如同山上的风前糠，如同暴风前的旋风土。
The nations crash like the crashing of many waters. But He will rebuke them; And they will flee far away, And will be chased like mountain chaff before the wind
And like a whirlwind of dust before storm wind.
17:14 看哪，在晚上有灾难；未到早晨，他们就没有了。这是掳掠我们之人所得的分，是抢夺我们之人的定命。
At evening time, indeed, there is calamity; Before the morning they are no more. This is the portion of those who plunder us, And the allotment of those who take
us as spoil.
683
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 18 章
18:1 祸哉，那在古实的河外，翅膀刷刷响声之地，
Woe to the land of the whirring of wings, Which is beyond the rivers of Cush,
18:2 就是那差遣使者在水面上，坐蒲草船过海之地。你们快行的使者，要到身材高大、皮肤光滑的国民那里，到为远近的人所畏惧的民族那里去；这国民
是命令加上命令，践踏人的，他们的地有江河分开。
The land that sends envoys on the sea, Even in papyrus vessels upon the surface of the water. Go, swift messengers, To a nation tall and smooth of skin, To a
people feared from there and beyond, A nation of command upon command and of treading down others, Whose land the rivers cut through.
18:3 世上一切的居民，和地上所住的人哪，山上高举旌旗的时候，你们要看见；吹角的时候，你们要听见。
All you inhabitants of the world and dwellers on the earth, When the standard is raised on the mountains, you will see it; And when the horn is blown, you will
hear it.
18:4 因为耶和华对我这样说，我要安静，在我的居所观看，如同日光中的炽热，如同收割的炎热中有露水的云雾。
For thus has Jehovah spoken to me, I will be quiet and observe in My lodging place, Like glowing heat in the sunshine, Like a cloud of dew in the heat of harvest.
18:5 收割之先，花苞开尽，花也成了将熟的葡萄，那时祂必用镰刀削去嫩枝，又砍掉蔓延的枝条。
For before the harvest, when the bud is full And the flower becomes the ripening grape, He will cut off the sprigs with pruning knives, And the tendrils He will
remove and cut away.
18:6 都要撇给山间的鸷鸟，和地上的野兽；鸷鸟要靠这些度过夏天，地上一切的野兽要靠这些度过收割之时。
They will be left together for the mountain birds And for the beasts of the earth. And the birds will spend summer on them, And all the beasts of the earth will
spend harvest time on them.
18:7 到那时这身材高大、皮肤光滑的民族，就是为远近的人所畏惧的民族，命令加上命令，践踏人的国民，他们的地有江河分开，必有礼物从他们奉给万
军之耶和华，就是奉到锡安山，万军之耶和华立祂名的地方。
At that time a gift will be brought to Jehovah of hosts from a people tall and smooth of skin, even from a people feared from there and beyond, a nation of
command upon command and of treading down others, whose land the rivers cut through, unto the place of the name of Jehovah of hosts, Mount Zion.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 19 章
19:1 关于埃及的默示：看哪，耶和华乘驾快云，临到埃及。埃及的偶像在祂面前战兢，埃及人的心在里面融化。
The burden concerning Egypt: See, Jehovah is riding upon a swift cloud, And He is coming to Egypt. And the idols of Egypt will quiver at His presence, And the
heart of the Egyptians will melt within them.
19:2 我必激动埃及人攻击埃及人；他们各人必攻击自己的弟兄，各人必攻击自己的邻舍，城攻击城，国攻击国。
Thus I will spur on Egyptian against Egyptian; And each will fight against his brother, and each against his neighbor, City against city, and kingdom against
kingdom.
19:3 埃及人的灵必在里面衰颓，我必败坏他们的谋略；他们必求问偶像、念咒的、交鬼的、和行巫术的。
The spirit of the Egyptians will fail within them, And their counsel I will swallow up; Then they will seek after idols and mediums, And after spirits of the dead and
familiar spirits.
19:4 我必将埃及人交在残忍的主人手中，强暴的王必辖制他们；这是主万军之耶和华说的。
And I will shut the Egyptians up under the hand of hard masters, And a mighty king will rule over them, Declares the Lord Jehovah of hosts.
19:5 海中的水必干绝，河也必枯竭干涸。
And the waters from the sea will be dried up, And the river will be desolate and dry.
19:6 河道要变臭；埃及尼罗河的水必减少枯竭。苇子和芦荻必枯烂。
The river canals will stink; The streams of Egypt's Nile will diminish and be desolate. The reeds and rushes will rot;
19:7 尼罗河旁，尼罗河口的植物，并沿尼罗河所种的田，都必枯干，被风吹去，归于无有。
The plants at the Nile, at the mouth of the Nile, And every place sown by the Nile Will dry up, be driven away, and be no more.
19:8 打鱼的必悲伤，所有在尼罗河垂钓的必哀号，在水上撒网的必都衰弱。
The fishermen will mourn; And all who cast the hook into the Nile will lament; And those who spread nets upon the waters will languish.
19:9 用梳好的麻造物的，和织麻布的，都必羞愧。
Moreover, those who work with combed flax will be confounded, As well as those who weave linen.
19:10 那地的柱石必被打碎，所有的雇工必魂里愁烦。
And the pillars of the land will be crushed, And every wage worker will be sullen in soul.
19:11 琐安的首领极其愚昧；法老最有智慧的谋士所筹画的，都成为愚昧；你们怎敢对法老说，我是智慧人的子孙，是古王的子孙？
Mere fools are the princes of Zoan; The counsel of the wisest of Pharaoh's counselors has become stupidity. How can you say to Pharaoh, I am a son of the wise
men, a son of ancient kings?
19:12 他们在那里？你的智慧人在那里？万军之耶和华向埃及所定的旨意，他们可以知道，可以告诉你罢。
Where are they? Where are your wise men? Let them tell you and let them know What Jehovah of hosts has purposed against Egypt.
19:13 琐安的首领都变为愚昧，挪弗的首领都受了迷惑；那些作埃及众支派房角石的，使埃及人走错了路。
The princes of Zoan have become fools; the princes of Memphis are beguiled; They have misled Egypt, who are the cornerstone of her tribes.
19:14 耶和华使乖谬的灵搀入埃及中间，首领使埃及一切所作的都有差错，好像醉酒之人呕吐的时候，东倒西歪一样。
Jehovah has mixed within her a spirit of distortings, And they have misled Egypt in all that it does, As a drunken man staggers in his vomit.
19:15 埃及中，无论是头或尾，棕枝或芦苇，都不能为他作成什么。
And there will be no work for Egypt, Which the head or the tail, the branch or the rush, may do.
19:16 到那日，埃及人必像妇人一样；他们必因万军之耶和华在埃及以上所抡的手，战兢惧怕。
In that day the Egyptians will be like women, and they will tremble and be in dread before the waving of the hand of Jehovah of hosts, which He will be waving
over them.
19:17 犹大地必使埃及惊恐；向谁题起犹大地，谁就惧怕；这是因万军之耶和华向埃及所定的旨意。
684
And the land of Judah will become a source of crazed terror to Egypt-everyone to whom it is mentioned will be in dread of it because of the purpose of Jehovah
of hosts, which He purposes against them.
19:18 当那日，埃及地必有五城的人说迦南的方言，又指着万军之耶和华起誓；有一城必称为灭亡城。
In that day five cities in the land of Egypt will be speaking the language of Canaan and swearing to Jehovah of hosts; one will be called the City of Destruction.
19:19 当那日，在埃及地中必有为耶和华筑的一座坛；靠近埃及的边界，必有为耶和华立的一根柱；
In that day there will be an altar to Jehovah in the midst of the land of Egypt and a pillar to Jehovah near its border;
19:20 这要在埃及地为万军之耶和华作记号和见证；埃及人因为受人欺压哀求耶和华，祂就给他们差遣一位救主和大能者；这一位必拯救他们。
And it will become a sign and a testimony to Jehovah of hosts in the land of Egypt; for they will cry unto Jehovah because of their oppressors, and He will send
them a Savior and Mighty One; and He will deliver them.
19:21 耶和华必被埃及人所认识，在那日埃及人必认识耶和华；他们要用祭物和供物敬拜祂，并向耶和华许愿还愿。
And Jehovah will make Himself known to the Egyptians, and the Egyptians will know Jehovah in that day; they will worship Him with sacrifice and offering and will
vow a vow to Jehovah and accomplish it.
19:22 耶和华必击打埃及，又击打又医治；埃及人就归向耶和华，祂必应允他们的祈求，医治他们。
And Jehovah will strike Egypt, striking yet healing; and they will turn to Jehovah, and He will be entreated of by them and will heal them.
19:23 当那日，必有从埃及通往亚述的大道，亚述人要进入埃及，埃及人也要进入亚述；埃及人要与亚述人一同敬拜耶和华。
In that day there will be a highway from Egypt to Assyria, and the Assyrians will come to Egypt, and the Egyptians to Assyria; and the Egyptians will worship with
the Assyrians.
19:24 当那日，以色列必与埃及、亚述相联，三国一同在地上成为祝福；
In that day Israel will be the third party with Egypt and Assyria, a blessing in the midst of the land,
19:25 万军之耶和华必赐福给他们，说，埃及我的百姓，亚述我手的工作，以色列我的产业，都有福了。
With which Jehovah of hosts will bless, saying, Blessed be Egypt My people and Assyria the work of My hands and Israel My inheritance.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 20 章
20:1 亚述王撒珥根打发元帅到亚实突的那年，他攻打亚实突，将城攻取了；
In the year that the tartan came to Ashdod, when Sargon the king of Assyria sent him, and he fought against Ashdod and took it,
20:2 那时耶和华借着亚摩斯的儿子以赛亚说话，说，你去解掉你腰间的麻布，脱下你脚上的鞋。以赛亚就这样作，露身赤脚行走。
At that time Jehovah spoke through Isaiah the son of Amoz, saying, Go and loosen the sackcloth from your loins and take your sandals off your feet. And he did
so, going about stripped and barefooted.
20:3 耶和华说，我仆人以赛亚怎样露身赤脚行走三年，作为警戒埃及和古实的表号和奇事；
And Jehovah said, Just as My servant Isaiah has gone about stripped and barefoot for three years as a sign and a wonder against Egypt and Cush,
20:4 照样，亚述王也必将埃及被掳的人，和古实被迁徙的人带去，他们无论老少，都要露身赤脚，现出下体，使埃及蒙羞。
So shall the king of Assyria lead away the captives of Egypt and the exiles of Cush, young men and old men, stripped and barefoot, with their buttocks uncovered,
to Egypt's shame.
20:5 以色列人必因所仰望的古实，并所夸耀的埃及，惊惶羞愧。
And they will be dismayed and ashamed of Cush, their expectation, and of Egypt, their boast.
20:6 当那日，这沿海一带的居民必说，我们素所仰望的，就是我们为脱离亚述王逃往求助的，不过是如此！我们怎能逃脱呢？
And the inhabitant of this coastland will say in that day, Such is now our expectation, to whom we fled for help to be delivered from the king of Assyria! And how
shall we escape?
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 21 章
21:1 关于海旁旷野的默示：有仇敌从旷野，从可怕之地而来，好像南方的暴风猛然扫过。
The burden concerning the wilderness of the sea: Like storm winds In the Negev passing through, It comes from the wilderness From an awesome land.
21:2 惨酷的异象已经宣示于我；诡诈的行诡诈，毁灭的行毁灭。以拦哪，你要上去；玛代阿，你要围困；主说，我使巴比伦所引起的一切叹息都止住了。
A harsh vision Has been announced to me; The unfaithful one deals unfaithfully, And the destroyer destroys. Go up, Elam; Lay siege, Media; I have put an end To
all her groaning.
21:3 所以我满腰疼痛；剧痛将我抓住，好像产妇的剧痛一样；我听了就疼痛弯腰；我看了就惊惶失措。
Therefore my loins Are full of anguish; Pangs have taken hold of me Like the pangs of a woman in labor. I am bent over at the hearing of it;I am terrified at the
seeing it
21:4 我心昏乱，惊恐威吓我。我所爱慕的黄昏竟使我战兢。
My heart reels; Shuddering overwhelms me. The twilight that I love Has become a source of trembling to me.
21:5 他们摆设筵席，铺展地毯，又吃又喝！首领阿，你们起来，用油抹盾牌。
Setting the table! Spreading out the rug! Eating! Drinking! Rise, princes; Oil the shields.
21:6 主对我如此说，你去设立守望的，使他将所看见的报告出来。
For thus says The Lord to me, Go, set a watchman; Let him report what he sees.
21:7 他看见骑马的，是一对一对骑马的，又看见骑驴的、骑骆驼的，就留心听，极其留心。
And he saw riders, A team of horsemen; Riders of donkeys, Riders of camels; And he attends with attention, With much attention.
21:8 他像狮子吼叫，说，主阿，我白日不断站在望楼上，整夜立在我守望所。
And he calls out like a lion: On the watchtower, Lord, I stand continually by day; At my guardpost I am stationed Every night.
21:9 看哪，来了骑马的人，是一对一对骑马的。有一位回应说，巴比伦倾倒了，倾倒了！她一切雕制的神像，都打碎于地了。
And now there come Riding men, A team of horsemen. And one answers and says, Fallen, fallen is Babylon! And all the idols of her gods Has he shattered to the
earth.
21:10 我被打的禾稼，我禾场的谷阿！我从万军之耶和华以色列的神那里所听见的，都告诉你们了。
685
My threshed ones, And the son of the threshing floor! What I have heard From Jehovah of hosts, The God of Israel, I have declared to you.
21:11 关于度玛的默示：有人从西珥呼问我，说，守望的阿，夜还有多长？守望的阿，夜还有多长？
The burden concerning Dumah: Someone is calling to me from Seir: Guard, what remains of the night? Guard, what remains of the night?
21:12 守望的说，早晨到了，黑夜也会来；你们若要问，就可以问；可以回头再来。
The guard says, Morning is coming, But so also is night; If you will ask, ask; Return, come.
21:13 关于亚拉伯的默示：底但结伴的客旅阿，你们必在亚拉伯的树林中住宿。
The burden against Arabia: In the thicket of Arabia you must spend the night, You nomad clans of the Dedanim.
21:14 提玛地的居民拿水来迎接口渴的，拿饼来迎接逃避的；
They bring water To meet the thirsty; The inhabitants of the land of Tema Meet with bread those who flee;
21:15 因为他们逃避了刀剑、出鞘的刀、上弦的弓、以及剧烈的战事。
For they flee from swords-From the drawn sword, From the bent bow, And from the harshness of battle.
21:16 主对我这样说：一年之内，照雇工年数的算法，基达的一切荣耀必归于无有。
For thus has the Lord said to me, Within a year, like a wage worker's year, all the glory of Kedar will end,
21:17 弓箭手的余数，基达人的勇士，必然稀少；因为这是耶和华以色列的神说的。
And the remainder of the number of the archers, the mighty men of the sons of Kedar, will be few; for Jehovah the God of Israel has spoken.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 22 章
22:1 关于异象谷的默示：有什么事使你们众人都上了房顶呢？
The burden concerning the valley of vision: What then troubles you That all have gone up to the housetops?
22:2 你这满处呐喊、大有喧哗的城，欢乐的邑阿，你中间被杀的，并不是被刀杀，也不是因打仗死亡。
You who are full of noise, you tumultuous city, You exultant town, Your slain were not slain with the sword, Nor are they dead because of battle.
22:3 你所有的官长一同逃跑，他们不需弓箭就被捆绑；你中间一切被找到的都一同被捆绑，虽然他们已逃往远方。
All your rulers have fled together; Apart from the bow they have been captured. All of you who were found have been captured together, Though they had fled far
away.
22:4 所以我说，你们转眼不要看我！我要痛哭。不要因我民女的毁灭，就急忙安慰我。
Therefore I said, Look away from me! Let me weep bitterly. Do not hasten to comfort me About the destruction of the daughter of my people.
22:5 因为主万军之耶和华使异象谷有溃乱、践踏、烦扰的日子，城被攻破，哀声达到山间。
For there is a day of turmoil and trampling down and confusion With the Lord Jehovah of hosts In the valley of vision, a breaking down of walls And crying to the
mountains.
22:6 以拦拿起箭袋，带同坐战车的和马兵；吉珥也揭开盾牌。
And Elam took up the quiver, With chariots of men and horsemen; And Kir uncovered the shield.
22:7 你佳美的谷遍满战车，也有马兵在城门前排列；
Then your choicest valleys Were full of chariots, And the horsemen firmly fixed themselves at the gate;
22:8 他揭去犹大的遮盖。那日，你仰望林宫内的军器；
And he removed the covering of Judah. And you looked in that day To the weapons of the Forest House,
22:9 你们看见大卫城的破口很多，便聚积下池的水；
While the breaches of the city of David You saw to be many. So you gathered the water of the lower pool;
22:10 又数点耶路撒冷的房屋，将房屋拆毁，巩固城墙。
And the houses of Jerusalem you counted, And tore down the houses to fortify the wall.
22:11 又在两道城墙中间挖一个聚水池，可盛旧池的水；却不仰望行作这事的主，也看不见从古设定这事的神。
Then you made a reservoir between the walls For the water of the old pool. But you did not look to its very Maker, And He who formed it long ago you did not
regard.
22:12 当那日主万军之耶和华叫你们哭泣哀号，头上光秃，身披麻布。
Therefore the Lord Jehovah of hosts Called you in that day To weeping and to mourning, To head shaving and to wearing sackcloth.
22:13 你们倒欢喜快乐，宰牛杀羊，吃肉喝酒，说，我们只管吃喝罢，因为明天要死了！
But now there is gladness and joy, The slaying of cattle and the slaughtering of sheep, The eating of meat and the drinking of wine; Eating and drinking, for
tomorrow we die!
22:14 万军之耶和华在我耳中揭露这事，说，这罪孽直到你们死，绝不得遮盖；这是主万军之耶和华说的。
But in my ears the Lord Jehovah of hosts revealed this: This iniquity shall by no means be covered for you until you die, Says the Lord Jehovah of hosts.
22:15 主万军之耶和华这样说：你去见作管家的，就是王的家宰舍伯那，对他说，
Thus says the Lord Jehovah of hosts: Get up, go to this steward, To Shebna, who is over the king's house, saying,
22:16 你在这里作什么？你在这里有什么人，竟在这里为自己凿坟墓，就是在高处凿坟墓，在磐石中为自己凿出安身之所？
What are you doing here, and whom do you have here That you have hewn a tomb for yourself here, As he who has hewn a tomb on the heights, As he who has
cut out a resting place for himself in the rock?
22:17 勇士阿，耶和华快要将你远远抛去；祂必将你紧紧抓住，
Jehovah soon throws you far away, O mighty one, And He grasps you firmly;
22:18 紧紧卷成一团，抛在宽阔之地，好像抛球一样。你必死在那里；你荣耀的车也必在那里成为你主人家的羞辱。
He will wind you up tightly; Like a ball He will toss you into a wide land. There you will die; and there the chariots of your glory Will become the disgrace of the
house of your master.
22:19 我必赶逐你离开你的职位；你必从你的原位撤下。
And I will drive you from your position, And from your standing He will pull you down.
22:20 到那日我必召我的仆人，希勒家的儿子以利亚敬来，
And in that day I will call to My servant Eliakim the son of Hilkiah,
22:21 将你的袍子给他穿上，将你的腰带给他系紧，将你的政权交在他手中；他必作耶路撒冷居民和犹大家的父。
686
And I will clothe him with your tunic, And I will strengthen him with your girding sash, And I will put your dominion into his hand; And he will become a father to
the inhabitants of Jerusalem And to the house of Judah.
22:22 我必将大卫家的钥匙放在他肩头上；他开了就没有人能关，关了就没有人能开。
And I will set the key of the house of David upon his shoulder-When he opens, no one will shut; When he shuts, no one will open.
22:23 我必将他像钉子钉在坚固处，他必成为他父家荣耀的宝座。
And I will drive him as a peg into a sure place, And he will become a throne of glory for his father's house.
22:24 他父家所有的荣耀，连儿女带子孙，一切最小的器皿，从杯子到一切瓶罐，都必挂在他身上。
And they will hang upon him all the glory of his father's house, the offspring and the issue, all the smallest vessels, from the bowls to all the jars.
22:25 万军之耶和华说，当那日钉在坚固处的钉子必被挪去，砍断坠落；挂在其上的重担必被剪断；因为这是耶和华说的。
In that day, declares Jehovah of hosts, the peg driven into the sure place will be removed, even cut away, and it will fall; and the burden that was upon it will be
cut down; for Jehovah has spoken.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 23 章
23:1 关于推罗的默示：他施的船只阿，要哀号，因为推罗被毁坏，甚至没有房屋，没有可进之路。这是从基提地向他们揭露的消息。
The burden concerning Tyre: Howl, O ships of Tarshish, For it is destroyed-lacking house, Lacking entrance. From as far away as the land of Kittim It is told to
them.
23:2 沿海的居民，就是素来靠航海的西顿商家得丰盛的，你们当静默无言。
Hush, you inhabitants of the coastland, You, whom the merchants of Sidon, Who cross the sea, have replenished.
23:3 在大水之上，西曷的谷物，尼罗河的庄稼，是推罗的进项；列国与她通商得利。
And by way of many waters The grain of Shihor, the harvest of the Nile, was her revenue; And she was profit to the nations.
23:4 西顿哪，你当惭愧，因为大海说，就是海的保障说，我没有劬劳，也没有生产；没有养育少男，也没有抚养童女。
Be ashamed, O Sidon, for the sea has spoken, The stronghold of the sea, saying, I have not been in labor nor given birth; Neither have I brought up young men,
Nor have I raised virgins.
23:5 这风声传到埃及，埃及人为推罗的风声，极其疼痛。
When the report reaches Egypt, They will writhe in pain at the report concerning Tyre.
23:6 推罗人哪，你们当过到他施去；沿海的居民哪，你们都当哀号。
Cross over to Tarshish; Howl, you inhabitants of the coastland.
23:7 这岂是你们所夸耀的城？她从上古之日就有，其居民移脚往远方寄居。
Is this your jubilant city, Whose antiquity is from the days of antiquity, Whose feet carried her off afar to sojourn?
23:8 推罗本是赐冠冕的，她的商家是作首领的，她的买卖人是地上的尊贵人；她遭遇如此，是谁定的意呢？
Who has purposed this Against Tyre, the giver of crowns, Whose merchants were princes, Whose traders were the honorable of the earth?
23:9 是万军之耶和华定的意，为要污辱那因一切华美而有的骄傲，使地上一切的尊贵人被藐视。
Jehovah of hosts has purposed it, To defile the pride of all beauty, To bring into contempt all the honorable of the earth.
23:10 他施的女子阿，可以像河一样流过你的地；不再有拘束了。
Overflow your land like a river, O daughter of Tarshish; There is no more restraint.
23:11 耶和华已经向海伸手，震动列国。至于迦南，祂已经吩咐拆毁其中的保障。
He has stretched out His hand over the sea; He has shaken kingdoms. Jehovah has given commandment concerning Canaan To destroy its strongholds.
23:12 祂又说，受欺压的西顿处女阿，你必不得再欢乐。起来，过到基提去；就是在那里，你也不得安歇。
And He has said, You shall not continue to exult any longer, O crushed virgin daughter of Sidon. Arise; cross over to Kittim-There also you will have no rest.
23:13 看哪，迦勒底人之地，向来没有这民；亚述人将这地派定给旷野的走兽；他们立起了攻城楼，拆毁推罗的宫殿，使她成为荒场。
See the land of the Chaldeans, this people! They were not-the Assyrians assigned it to desert animals; they raised their siege towers; they stripped their citadels;
they brought it to ruin.
23:14 他施的船只阿，要哀号，因为你们的保障毁灭了。
Howl, O ships of Tarshish, For your stronghold is destroyed.
23:15 到那日，推罗必被忘记七十年，正如一王的年日。七十年后，推罗必像妓女所唱的歌：
In that day Tyre will be forgotten for seventy years, like the days of one king. At the end of the seventy years Tyre will be like her in the harlot's song:
23:16 你这被忘记的妓女阿，拿琴周游城内，巧弹多唱，使人再想念你。
Take a harp; Compass the city, Forgotten harlot. Play well; Abound in song, That you may be remembered.
23:17 七十年后，耶和华必眷顾推罗。她要仍得妓女的雇价，与地上的万国行淫。
And at the end of the seventy years Jehovah will visit Tyre. And she will return to the wages of her harlotry and will be a harlot to all the kingdoms of the earth on
land's surface.
23:18 她的营利和雇价，要归耶和华为圣，必不积攒存留；因为她的营利必归给住在耶和华面前的人，使他们吃得饱，穿得好。
And her profit and the wages of her harlotry will be dedicated to Jehovah; it will not be stored up, nor will it be hoarded, for her profit will be for those who dwell
before Jehovah, as their sufficient food and their choice clothing.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 24 章
24:1 耶和华使地空虚，变为荒凉；又将地面扭曲，使居民分散。
Jehovah now makes the earth desolate and lays it waste; He distorts its surface and scatters its inhabitants:
24:2 那时百姓怎样，祭司也怎样；仆人怎样，主人也怎样；婢女怎样，主母也怎样；买物的怎样，卖物的也怎样；放债的怎样，借债的也怎样；取利的怎
样，出利的也怎样。
687
As it is with the people, so will it be with the priest; As it is with the servant, so will it be with the master; As it is with the maid, so will it be with the mistress; As it is
with the buyer, so will it be with the seller; As it is with the lender, so will it be with the borrower; As it is with the creditor, so will it be with him to whom he gives
credit.
24:3 地必全然空虚，尽被掠夺，因为这话是耶和华说的。
The earth will be utterly desolated And utterly spoiled, For Jehovah has spoken this word.
24:4 地悲哀衰残，世界败落衰残，地上居高位的人也败落了。
The earth dries up and fades away; The world languishes and fades away; The exalted of the people of the earth languish.
24:5 地被其上的居民污秽；因为他们犯了律法，废了律例，背了永约。
And the earth is polluted under the weight of its inhabitants; For they have transgressed laws, they have violated statutes, They have broken an eternal covenant.
24:6 所以咒诅将地吞灭，其上的居民显为有罪；因此，地上的居民被焚烧，剩下的人稀少。
Therefore a curse devours the earth And the inhabitants of it are held guilty; Therefore the inhabitants of the earth are burned, And few men are left.
24:7 新酒悲哀，葡萄树衰残；心中欢乐的，俱都叹息。
The new wine mourns; the vine languishes; All the merryhearted sigh.
24:8 击鼓之乐止息，欢乐人的喧哗停顿，弹琴之乐也止息了。
The mirth of the tambourines ceases; The noise of those who exult stops; The mirth of the lyre ceases.
24:9 人必不得饮酒唱歌；喝浓酒的，必以为苦。
Men do not drink wine in song; Liquor is bitter to those who drink it.
24:10 荒废的城拆毁了；各家关门闭户，使人不得进去。
The city of chaos is broken down; Every house is shut up that none may enter.
24:11 在街上有呼喊要酒的声音；一切的喜乐变为昏暗；地上的欢乐都离去了。
A cry for wine is in the streets; All joy is darkened; The mirth of the land is departed.
24:12 城中只有荒凉，城门拆毁净尽。
In the city desolation remains, And the gate is crushed to ruins.
24:13 在大地之间，万民之中必如此：像打过的橄榄树，又像已摘的葡萄所剩无几。
For thus will it be in the midst of the earth, Among the peoples: Like the shaking of an olive tree, Like the gleanings when the grape harvest is completed.
24:14 剩余的人要高声欢呼；他们要因耶和华的威严，从西边扬起声来。
They will lift up their voice; they will give a ringing shout; Because of the majesty of Jehovah they will cry out from the west.
24:15 因此你们要在东方荣耀耶和华，在众海岛荣耀耶和华以色列神的名。
Therefore in the east glorify Jehovah, Even the name of Jehovah the God of Israel in the coastlands of the sea.
24:16 我们听见从地极有歌声，说，荣耀归与那义者！我却说，我消瘦了！我消瘦了！我有祸了！诡诈的行诡诈！诡诈的大行诡诈！
From the ends of the earth we hear songs: Glory to the righteous One! But I say, Leanness to me! Leanness to me! Woe to me! The unfaithful deal unfaithfully!
Indeed the unfaithful deal most unfaithfully!
24:17 地上的居民哪，恐惧、陷坑、网罗都临到你。
Dread, pit, and snare Are upon you, O inhabitant of the earth.
24:18 躲避恐惧声音的必坠入陷坑，从陷坑上来的必被网罗缠住；因为高天的窗户都开了，地的根基也震动了。
And he who flees from the sound of dread Will fall into the pit, And he who comes up out of the pit Will be taken in the snare; For the windows from on high are
open, And the foundations of the earth shake.
24:19 地全然破坏，尽都崩裂，大大的震动了。
The earth is broken asunder; The earth is split through and through; The earth is shaken violently.
24:20 地东倒西歪，好像醉酒的人；又摇来摇去，好像茅屋。地的罪过在其上沉重，必然塌陷，不能复起。
The earth staggers back and forth like a drunkard And sways about like a field hut. And its transgression weighs heavily upon it; It will fall and will not rise again.
24:21 到那日耶和华在高处必惩罚高处的众军，在地上必惩罚地上的列王。
And in that day Jehovah will punish On high the host on high, And the kings of the earth on the earth.
24:22 他们必被聚集，像囚犯被聚在牢狱中，并要囚在监牢里，多日之后必被讨罪。
And they will be gathered together, Like prisoners gathered in a dungeon; And will be shut up in prison, And after many days they will be punished.
24:23 那时月亮要蒙羞，日头要惭愧；因为万军之耶和华必在锡安山、在耶路撒冷作王，在祂的长老面前必有荣耀。
Then the moon will be abashed, and the sun will be ashamed; For Jehovah of hosts will reign In Mount Zion and in Jerusalem, And His glory will be before His
elders.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 25 章
25:1 耶和华阿，你是我的神；我要尊崇你，我要称谢你的名，因为你以忠信真实行过奇妙的事，成就你古时所定的旨意。
O Jehovah, You are my God; I will exalt You, I will give thanks to Your name, For You have done wonderful things-Counsels of old, in faithfulness, perfect
faithfulness.
25:2 你使城变为乱堆，使坚固城变为荒场，使外邦人的宫堡不再为城，永远不再建造。
For You have made of a city a heap, Of a fortified town a ruin. A palace of strangers becomes no city at all; It will never be rebuilt.
25:3 所以刚强的民必荣耀你；强暴之国的城必敬畏你。
Therefore a strong people will glorify You; The cities of terrifying nations will fear You.
25:4 当强暴人的气息如同暴风直吹墙壁，你就作了贫穷人的保障，作了困乏人急难中的保障，作了躲暴风的避难所、避炎热的阴凉处。
For You have been a stronghold to the weak, A stronghold to the needy in his distress, A refuge from the storm, a shade from the heat; For the breath of those
who terrify is like a tempest against a wall.
25:5 你要压制外邦人的喧哗，好像使干燥地的热气下落；强暴人的凯歌必低微，好像热气因云影消散。
Like the heat in a drought, You will subdue the uproar of strangers; Like the heat through the shadow of a cloud, The song of those who terrify will be brought low.
25:6 万军之耶和华必在这山上，为万民用肥甘设摆筵席，用陈酒和满髓的肥甘，并澄清的陈酒，设摆筵席。
688
And Jehovah of hosts will make on this mountain For all the peoples A feast of fat things, A feast of wine matured on the lees, Of fat things full of marrow, And of
filtered wine matured on the lees.
25:7 祂又必在这山上，吞灭遮盖万民之物，和遮蔽万国的帕子。
And on this mountain He will swallow up The covering that covers up all the peoples, Even the veil that veils all the nations.
25:8 祂必吞灭死亡，直到永远；主耶和华必擦去各人脸上的眼泪，又除掉全地上祂百姓的羞辱；因为这是耶和华说的。
He will swallow up death forever; And the Lord Jehovah will wipe away the tears from all faces; And the reproach of His people He will remove from all the earth;
For Jehovah has spoken.
25:9 到那日人必说，看哪，这是我们的神，我们素来等候祂，祂必拯救我们。这是耶和华，我们素来等候祂；我们要因祂的救恩欢喜快乐。
And it will be said in that day, Here, this is our God, For whom we have waited that He may save us. This is Jehovah, for whom we have waited; Let us be glad
and rejoice in His salvation.
25:10 因为耶和华的手必按在这山上；摩押在自己的地方必被践踏，好像干草被践踏在粪堆的水中。
For the hand of Jehovah will rest on this mountain, And Moab will be threshed in his place, Even as straw is threshed in the water of a dung heap.
25:11 他必在其中伸开手，好像洑水的伸开手洑水一样；但耶和华必使他的骄傲，和他手所行的诡计，一并败落。
And he will spread out his hands in the middle of it, As a swimmer spreads out his hands to swim; But Jehovah will abase his pride together with the trickery of
his hands.
25:12 耶和华必使你城上的坚固高台倾倒，拆平直到尘埃。
And the lofty fortification of your walls He will bring down, Lay low, and cast to the ground, even to the dust.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 26 章
26:1 当那日，在犹大地人必唱这歌，说，我们有坚固的城；耶和华要将救恩立为城墙和外郭。
In that day this song will be sung in the land of Judah: We have a strong city; He will set up salvation as walls and a rampart.
26:2 当敞开城门，使持守忠信的公义国民得以进入。
Open the gates So that the righteous nation may enter, They who maintain faithfulness.
26:3 心意坚定的，你必保守他十分平安，因为他信靠你。
You will keep the steadfast of mind In perfect peace Because he trusts in You.
26:4 你们当信靠耶和华，直到永远；因为在主耶和华里，我们有永久的磐石。
Trust in Jehovah forever and ever, For in Jah Jehovah we have an eternal rock.
26:5 祂使住在高处的，与高城一并倾倒，将城拆毁，拆平直到尘埃。
For He has brought down those who dwell on high, The lofty city; He lays it low, He lays it low to the ground; He casts it into the dust.
26:6 它要被脚践踏，就是被困苦人的脚和穷乏人的脚践踏。
The foot will trample it, the foot of the poor, The steps of the weak.
26:7 义人的道路是平直的；正直的主阿，你必修平义人的路径。
The path of the righteous is smoothness; O You who are upright, You make the path of the righteous level.
26:8 耶和华阿，我们在你行审判的路上等候你。我们魂里所羡慕的是你的名，就是你那可记念的名。
Indeed in the path of Your judgments, O Jehovah, we have waited for You. Your name, that is, Your memorial, Is the desire of our soul.
26:9 夜间我的魂羡慕你；清晨我里面的灵寻求你；因为你在地上行审判的时候，世上的居民就学习公义。
My soul desires You in the night; Indeed my spirit within me seeks You at the dawn; For when Your judgments are in the earth, The inhabitants of the world learn
righteousness.
26:10 恶人虽得恩惠，仍不学习公义；在正直的地上，他必行事不义，也不注意耶和华的威严。
Though the wicked is shown grace, He does not learn righteousness; In the land of straightforwardness he deals unjustly And does not perceive the majesty of
Jehovah.
26:11 耶和华阿，你的手高举，他们仍看不见。他们必看见你为百姓发的热心，因而抱愧；并且有火要烧灭你的敌人。
O Jehovah, Your hand is lifted up, But they do not see it. They will see Your zeal for the people and will be put to shame; Indeed fire will devour Your adversaries.
26:12 耶和华阿，你必派定我们得平安，因为我们所作的事，也都是你给我们成就的。
O Jehovah, You will ordain peace for us, For You have also performed all our works for us.
26:13 耶和华我们的神阿，在你以外曾有别的主管辖我们，但我们惟独靠你题说你的名。
O Jehovah our God, other lords besides You have been master to us, But through You alone do we mention Your name.
26:14 已死的必不能再活，去世的必不能再起；所以你刑罚了他们，毁灭了他们，又使他们的名号全然消灭。
The dead will not live, The deceased will not rise; Therefore You have visited and destroyed them, And You have caused all memory of them to perish.
26:15 耶和华阿，你增添国民，你增添国民，你得了荣耀；你又扩张地的四境到远处。
You have increased the nation, O Jehovah; You have increased the nation-You are glorified; You have far extended all the edges of the land.
26:16 耶和华阿，他们在急难中寻求你；你的惩罚临到他们身上，他们就低声倾吐，向你祷告。
O Jehovah, in distress they sought You; They whispered out a prayer, for Your chastening was upon them.
26:17 妇人怀孕，临产疼痛，在痛苦之中喊叫；耶和华阿，我们在你面前也是如此。
As a pregnant woman draws near to giving birth, She writhes and cries out in her pain; So we have been before You, O Jehovah.
26:18 我们也曾怀孕疼痛，所产的竟像风一样。我们未曾给地行什么拯救的事，世上的居民也未曾由我们而生。
We were pregnant; we writhed; we gave birth, as it were, to wind. We have not accomplished deliverance for the earth, Nor have the inhabitants of the world
been born.
26:19 属你的死人要活过来；我们的尸首要兴起。住在尘埃中的阿，要醒起欢呼，因你的甘露好像清晨的甘露，地也要交出死人来。
Your dead will live; my corpses will rise. Awake and give a ringing shout, you who dwell in dust, For your dew is like the dew of the dawn, And the earth will bring
forth the deceased.
26:20 我的百姓阿，你们要来，进入自己的内室，关上门，隐藏片时，等到忿怒过去；
Come, my people, enter your rooms, And shut your doors behind you; Hide for a short moment Until the indignation has passed;
26:21 因为耶和华从祂的住处出来，要刑罚地上居民的罪孽；地也必露出其中的血，不再掩盖被杀的人。
689
For Jehovah is now coming forth from His place To punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity; And the earth will reveal her bloodshed And will no longer
conceal her slain.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 27 章
27:1 到那日，耶和华必用祂刚硬、巨大、有力的刀，刑罚鳄鱼，就是那快行的蛇；刑罚鳄鱼，就是那曲行的蛇；并杀海中的大龙。
In that day Jehovah will punish, With His harsh, great, and mighty sword, Leviathan the fleeing serpent, And leviathan the crooked serpent; And He will slay the
dragon that is in the sea.
27:2 当那日有出酒的葡萄园；你们要指这园唱歌，说，
In that day: A vineyard of wine, sing of it!
27:3 我耶和华是看守葡萄园的，我必时刻浇灌，昼夜看守，免得有人侵害。
I, Jehovah, am its keeper; Every moment I water it. Lest anyone visit harm upon it, By night and by day I guard it.
27:4 我没有忿怒。谁给我长出荆棘蒺藜，我就勇往直前与他争战，将他全部焚烧。
I have no wrath. Oh, that I had thorns and thistles! In battle I would march against them; I would burn them completely.
27:5 不然，让他持住我的能力，使他与我和好；愿他与我和好。
Or let him grasp at My strength; Let him make peace with Me; Let him make peace with Me.
27:6 将来雅各要扎根，以色列要发芽开花；他们的果实必遍满世界。
In the days to come Jacob will take root; Israel will blossom and bud; And they will fill the surface of the world with their produce.
27:7 主击打他们，岂像那些击打他们的人么？他们被杀戮，岂像那些被祂杀戮的人么？
Has He struck them like those who struck them? Have they been slain like those slain by Him?
27:8 你赶逐他们、遣开他们，是要与他们相争；刮东风的日子，祂就用暴风将他们逐去。
By expulsion and by banishing them, You contended with them; He sent them away with His harsh wind in the day of the east wind.
27:9 所以雅各的罪孽得赦免，他的罪得除掉的果效，全在于此：就是他叫祭坛的石头变为打碎的灰石，以致木像和日像不再立起。
Thus by this the iniquity of Jacob will be expiated, And this is all the fruit of the removal of their sin; When they make all the stones of their altar Like chalk stones
beaten to powder-Asherahs and sun images will not stand.
27:10 因为坚固城被孤立，居住之处被撇下离弃，像旷野一样。牛犊必在那里吃草，在那里躺卧，并吃尽其中的树枝。
For the fortified city is isolated; The habitation is given up and abandoned like a wilderness. There the calf will feed, And there he will lie down and consume its
branches.
27:11 枝条枯干，必被折断；妇女要来，拿去生火；因为这百姓蒙昧无知，所以造作他们的，必不怜恤他们；塑造他们的，也不施恩与他们。
When its boughs are withered, they will be broken off; Women come and make a fire with them; For they are not a people of understanding. Therefore He who
made them will not have compassion on them, And He who formed them will not show favor to them.
27:12 以色列人哪，到那日，耶和华必从大河的溪流，直到埃及小河，收打谷物，你们就要一个一个被收集。
And in that day Jehovah will beat out the grain from the flowing stream of the River Unto the brook of Egypt; And you will be gleaned One by one, O you children
of Israel.
27:13 当那日，必大发角声；在亚述地将要灭亡的，并在埃及地被赶散的，都要来；他们就在耶路撒冷圣山上敬拜耶和华。
And in that day a great trumpet will be blown, And the ones lost in the land of Assyria will come, As well as the outcasts in the land of Egypt, And they will
worship Jehovah On the holy mountain in Jerusalem.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 28 章
28:1 祸哉，以法莲酒徒骄傲的冠冕；祸哉，被酒所胜之人，在肥美谷山顶华美光彩的将残之花。
Woe to the proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim And to the fading flower of its glorious beauty, Which is at the head of the fat valley of those who are
overcome by wine.
28:2 看哪，主有一大能大力者；祂必像一阵冰雹，像毁灭的暴风，像涨溢泛滥的大水，用手将冠冕摔落于地。
Indeed the Lord has someone strong and mighty; As a hailstorm and a tempest of destruction, As a storm of mighty overflowing waters, He will cast down to the
earth with His hand.
28:3 以法莲酒徒骄傲的冠冕，必被踏在脚下；
The proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim Will be trodden under foot;
28:4 那在肥美谷山顶上华美光彩的将残之花，必像夏令以前初熟的无花果；看见这果的就注意，一到手中就吞吃了。
And the fading flower of its glorious beauty, Which is at the head of the fat valley, Will be like the first-ripe fig before the summer, Which when someone looks
upon it he sees it, And in an instant it is in his hand, and he swallows it up.
28:5 到那日，万军之耶和华必作祂余剩之民的华冠荣冕，
In that day Jehovah of hosts Will become a crown of beauty and a diadem of glory to the remnant of His people,
28:6 也作了在位上行审判者公平的灵，并城门口打退敌阵者的力量。
And a spirit of justice for him who sits in judgment And strength to those who turn away the battle at the gate.
28:7 但这些人，也因酒摇摇晃晃，因浓酒东倒西歪：祭司和申言者因浓酒摇摇晃晃，因酒昏乱，因浓酒东倒西歪；他们见异象时摇摇晃晃，行审判时摇摆
不定。
But these also reel with wine And stagger from liquor: The priest and the prophet stagger from liquor; They are swallowed up with wine; They stagger from liquor,
They reel in their visions, They totter in their judgments.
28:8 因为各席上满了呕吐的污秽，无一处干净。
For all the tables are full of vomit and filth; There is no place clean.
28:9 讥诮申言者的说，他要将知识指教谁呢？要使谁明白传言呢？是那刚断奶的么？是那刚离母怀的么？
Whom will he teach knowledge? And whom will he instruct with the report? Those weaned from milk? Those drawn from the breasts?
28:10 因为他所说的是命令加上命令，命令加上命令，一行又一行，一行又一行，这里一点，那里一点。
690
For his words are: Rule upon rule, rule upon rule; Line upon line, line upon line; Here a little, there a little.
28:11 申言者说，不然，主要藉异邦人的嘴唇，和外邦人的舌头，对这百姓说话；
For with stammering lips And with a foreign tongue He will speak to this people,
28:12 祂曾对他们说，这就是安息，你们要使疲乏人得安息；又说，这才是舒畅；他们却不肯听。
He who said to them, This is rest; give rest to the weary; And, This is repose. But they would not hear.
28:13 所以耶和华向他们说的话，是命令加上命令，命令加上命令，一行又一行，一行又一行，这里一点，那里一点；以致他们前行仰面跌倒，而且跌碎，
并陷入网罗，被缠住。
Therefore Jehovah's word to them will be: Rule upon rule, rule upon rule; Line upon line, line upon line; Here a little, there a little; That they may go and stumble
backward, And be broken, snared, and taken.
28:14 所以你们这些亵慢的人，就是辖管在耶路撒冷这百姓的，要听耶和华的话：
Therefore hear the word of Jehovah, You scoffing men, Who rule this people Who are in Jerusalem:
28:15 因为你们曾说，我们与死亡立了约，与阴间结了盟；敌军如水涨漫经过的时候，必不临到我们；因我们以谎言为避难所，在虚假之内藏身；
Because you have said, We have made A covenant with death, And with Sheol We have made an agreement: When the overflowing scourge passes through, It
will not come upon us; For we have made falsehood our refuge And have hidden ourselves in deception.
28:16 所以主耶和华如此说：看哪，我在锡安放一块石头，作为根基，是试验过的石头，是宝贵的房角石，作为稳固的根基；信靠的人必不着急。
Therefore thus says The Lord Jehovah: Indeed I lay a stone in Zion as a foundation, A tested stone, A precious cornerstone as a foundation firmly established; He
who believes will not hasten away.
28:17 我必以公平为准绳，以公义为线铊；冰雹必冲去谎言的避难所，大水必漫过藏身处。
And I will make justice the line And righteousness the plummet; And the hail will sweep away the refuge of lies, And the waters will overflow the secret place.
28:18 你们与死亡所立的约必然废掉，与阴间所结的盟必立不住；敌军如水涨漫经过的时候，你们必被他们践踏。
And your covenant with death will be annulled, And your agreement with Sheol will not stand; When the overflowing scourge passes through, You will be a
trampling ground to it.
28:19 每逢他们经过必将你们掳去；因为每早晨他们必经过，白昼黑夜都必如此。明白传言的，必受惊恐。
As often as it passes through, It will take hold of you. For morning by morning it will pass through, By day and by night; And it will be nothing but terror To
understand the report of it.
28:20 原来床榻短，使人不能舒身；被窝窄，使人不能遮体。
For the bed is too short for a man to stretch on, And the sheet is too narrow for him to wrap himself in.
28:21 耶和华必兴起，像在毗拉心山，祂必发怒，像在基遍谷，好作成祂的工，就是非常的工，成就祂的事，就是奇异的事。
For Jehovah will rise as on Mount Perazim, He will be agitated as in the valley of Gibeon, To do His deed, His strange deed, And to do His work, His most different
work.
28:22 现在你们不可作亵慢人，恐怕捆你们的绑索更结实；因为我从主万军之耶和华那里听见，要坚决的在全地上施行完全的毁灭。
Now therefore do not be mockers, Lest your fetters become stronger; For I have heard from the Lord Jehovah of hosts Of complete and decisive destruction upon
the whole earth.
28:23 你们当侧耳听我的声音，留心听我的言语。
Hearken and hear my voice; Attend and hear my speech.
28:24 那耕地为要撒种的，岂是终日耕地呢？岂是不断开垦耙地呢？
Does the plowman plow all day long to sow his seed? Does he open and harrow his ground continually?
28:25 他拉平了地面，岂不就撒种小茴香，播种大茴香，按行列种小麦，在定处种大麦，在田边种粗麦么？
Does he not, once he levels the surface, Scatter dill and broadcast cummin, And put the wheat in rows and the barley in its appointed place And the rye where it
belongs?
28:26 因为他的神教导他这样判断，并且这样指教他。
For his God instructs him toward such discretion And teaches him so.
28:27 原来打小茴香不用尖利的器具，轧大茴香也不用碾轮；但用杖打小茴香，用棍打大茴香。
For dill is not threshed with a sharp tool, Nor is the cart wheel turned upon the cummin; But dill is beaten out with a rod, And cummin with a stick.
28:28 作饼的谷是用磨磨碎，并不是不停的一打再打；一旦用碾轮和马辊过，就不用磨。
Bread grains are ground, Yet one does not thresh and thresh forever. And once the wheel of his cart and his horses drive over it, One does not grind it.
28:29 这也是出于万军之耶和华；祂的谋略奇妙，祂的智慧广大。
This also comes forth from Jehovah of hosts, He who makes His counsel extraordinary and His sound wisdom great.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 29 章
29:1 祸哉，亚利伊勒，亚利伊勒，大卫安营的城！任凭你年上加年，节期照常循环；
Woe to Ariel, to Ariel, The city where David camped! Add year to year; let the feasts run their course.
29:2 我终必使亚利伊勒困难，她必悲伤哀号，对我如同亚利伊勒。
But I will distress Ariel, And she will become mourning and lamentation And will be like an Ariel to me.
29:3 我必四围安营攻击你，用栅栏围困你，立起高垒攻击你。
And I will encamp in a circle against you, And will besiege you with palisades, And will raise up siegeworks against you.
29:4 你必降到低处，从地中说话；你的言语必低微，出于尘埃。你的声音必像那交鬼者的声音出于地，你的言语必呢喃出于尘埃。
And you will be brought down; from the ground you will speak, And your speech will come from low in the dust. And your voice will be like that of a departed
spirit from the ground, And your speech will twitter from the dust.
29:5 你仇敌的群众却要像细尘，强暴人的群众也要像飞散的糠秕；这事必顷刻之间忽然临到。
But the multitude of your enemies will be like fine dust, And the multitude of those who terrorize will be like chaff that passes away; And it will happen in an
instant, suddenly.
29:6 万军之耶和华必用雷轰、地震、大声、旋风、暴风、并吞灭的火焰，向你讨罪。
From Jehovah of hosts you will be visited, With thunder and earthquake and great noise, With whirlwind and tempest and the flame of consuming fire.
691
29:7 那时，攻击亚利伊勒列国的群众，就是一切攻击亚利伊勒和她的保障，并使她困难的，必如梦景，如夜间的异象。
And the multitude of all the nations that fight against Ariel, Even all who fight against her and her stronghold and who distress her, Will be like a dream, like a
vision in the night.
29:8 就像饥饿的人，梦中吃饭，醒了仍觉腹空；或像口渴的人，梦中喝水，醒了仍觉发昏，心里想喝；攻击锡安山列国的群众，也必如此。
And as when a hungry man dreams and finds himself eating, But he awakens and what he desires is not there; Or as when a thirsty man dreams and finds
himself drinking, But he awakens and is indeed faint and what he desires is far from him; So will the multitude of all the nations be That fight against Mount Zion.
29:9 你们等候惊奇罢；你们蒙蔽自己，继续蒙蔽罢。他们醉了，却非因酒；他们东倒西歪，却非因浓酒。
Linger and be astounded, Blind yourselves and be blind. They are drunk, but not with wine; They stagger, but not with liquor.
29:10 因为耶和华将沉睡的灵浇灌你们，封闭你们的眼，就是申言者；蒙盖你们的头，就是先见。
For Jehovah has poured out upon you A spirit of deep sleep And has shut your eyes, the prophets; And your heads, the seers, He has covered.
29:11 所有的异象对你们必如封住之书卷的话；人将这书卷交给识字的，说，请念罢；他必说，我不能念，因为封住了。
And all the vision will be to you like the words of a book that has been sealed, which when they give to him who is literate, saying, Please read this, he will say, I
am not able to, for it is sealed.
29:12 又将这书卷交给不识字的人，说，请念罢；他必说，我不识字。
Then the book will be given to him who is illiterate, saying, Please read this, and he will say, I am illiterate.
29:13 主说，因为这百姓用口亲近我，用嘴唇尊敬我，心却远离我；他们敬畏我，不过是领受人的吩咐。
And the Lord said, Because this people draws near with their mouth, And with their lips they honor Me, Yet they remove their heart far from Me, And their fear for
Me Is a commandment of men merely learned;
29:14 所以我要向这百姓再行奇妙的事，就是奇妙又奇妙的事；他们智慧人的智慧必然消灭，聪明人的聪明必然隐藏。
Therefore, indeed, I will once again Do something wondrous with this people, something wondrously marvelous; And the wisdom of their wise men will perish,
And the understanding of those who understand will be hidden.
29:15 祸哉，那些向耶和华深藏谋略的，他们所行的都在暗中，他们说，谁看见我们呢？谁知道我们呢？
Woe to those who hide deeply Their counsel from Jehovah, And whose deeds are in the dark And who say, Who sees us? And, Who knows us?
29:16 你们把事颠倒了！岂可看窑匠如泥么？被制作的物岂可论制作它的说，他没有制作我？或是被塑造的物论塑造它的说，他没有聪明？
You turn things upside down! Shall the potter be considered to be like the clay, That what is made should say of him who made it, He did not make me, Or what
is formed should say of him who formed it, He has no understanding?
29:17 不是还有一点点时候，利巴嫩就要变为肥田，肥田就要看为树林么？
Is it not yet a little while Before Lebanon will be turned into a fruitful field, And the fruitful field will be considered to be a forest.
29:18 到那日，聋子必听见这书上的话，瞎子的眼必从迷蒙黑暗中得以看见，
And in that day the deaf will hear the words of the book, And out of gloom and darkness the eyes of the blind will see,
29:19 困苦人必因耶和华增添喜乐，人间穷乏的必因以色列的圣者欢腾。
And the afflicted will increase their joy in Jehovah, And the needy of mankind will exult in the Holy One of Israel.
29:20 因为强暴人已归无有，亵慢人已经灭绝，一切找机会作孽的都已被剪除；
For he who terrorizes will cease to be, and the scorner will be consumed, And all who watch for iniquity will be cut off,
29:21 他们使人在言语上犯罪，为城门口责备人的设下网罗，用虚无的事屈枉义人。
Those who make a man sin by his words And ensnare him who judges at the gate And turn aside the righteous with an empty argument.
29:22 所以救赎亚伯拉罕的耶和华，论雅各家如此说，雅各必不再羞愧，面容也不至变为苍白；
Therefore thus says Jehovah, who redeemed Abraham, concerning the house of Jacob, Jacob will not now be ashamed, Nor will his face now turn pale;
29:23 但他看见他的子孙，就是我手的工作，在他那里，他们必尊我的名为圣，必尊雅各的圣者为圣，也必敬畏以色列的神。
But when he sees his children, the work of My hands, in his midst, They will sanctify My name And sanctify the Holy One of Jacob, And hold the God of Israel in
awe.
29:24 灵里迷糊的必得明白，发怨言的必受训诲。
And those who have erred in spirit will come to understand, And the murmurers will learn teaching.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 30 章
30:1 耶和华说，祸哉，这些悖逆的儿女；他们设谋却不由于我，结盟却不由于我的灵，以致罪上加罪；
Woe to the rebellious children, Declares Jehovah, Who devise counsel, but not of Me, And who make an alliance, but not of My Spirit, In order to add Sin upon sin;
30:2 他们起身下埃及去，并没有求问我；要投奔于法老的保障，并投靠在埃及的荫下；
Who go down to Egypt, Yet do not ask of My mouth, To take refuge in the refuge of Pharaoh, And to take shelter in the shadow of Egypt.
30:3 所以法老的保障必成为你们的羞辱，投靠在埃及的荫下，必成为你们的羞愧。
Therefore the refuge of Pharaoh will be your shame, And shelter in the shadow of Egypt, your humiliation.
30:4 他们的首领已在琐安，他们的使臣到了哈内斯。
For their princes are at Zoan, And their ambassadors have come to Hanes.
30:5 他们都必因那不利于他们的民蒙羞；那民并非帮助，也非利益，只是羞耻，也是凌辱。
All are ashamed Of a people that cannot profit them, Nor be a help or profit to them, But rather a shame and also a reproach.
30:6 关于南方牲畜的默示：他们把财物驮在驴驹的脊背上，将宝物驮在骆驼的肉鞍上，经过艰难困苦之地，就是有母狮、公狮、蝮蛇、会飞的火蛇出没之
地，往那不利于他们的民那里去。
The burden concerning the beasts of the Negev: Through the land of distress and anguish, From which come lioness and lion, Viper and flying fiery serpent, They
carry their riches upon young donkeys' backs And their treasures upon camels' humps To a people that cannot profit them;
30:7 埃及的帮助是徒然且空洞的；所以我称她为坐而不动的拉哈伯。
For Egypt helps in a vain and empty way. Therefore I call her Rahab, who sits still.
30:8 现今你去，在他们面前将这话写在版上，记在书卷上，以便日后作证据到永远。
Go now; write it on a tablet before them, And inscribe it on a scroll, That it may be, for the time to come, As a witness forever.
30:9 因为他们是悖逆的百姓，说谎的儿女，不肯听从耶和华训诲的儿女；
692
For this is a rebellious people, False children, Children who refuse to hear The instruction of Jehovah;
30:10 他们对观看的说，不要见异象；对有异象的说，不要向我们讲真异象；要向我们说动听的话，讲虚幻的异象；
Who say to those who see, Do not see; And to those who have visions, Do not give us true visions; Speak pleasant things to us; Give us illusions as your visions;
30:11 你们要离开正道，转离直路；不要在我们面前再题说以色列的圣者。
Get out of the way; Turn aside from the path; Cause the Holy One of Israel To cease from before us.
30:12 所以以色列的圣者如此说，因为你们藐视这话，倚赖欺压和乖僻，以此为可靠的；
Therefore thus says the Holy One of Israel, Because you despise this word And trust in oppression and guile, And rely on them,
30:13 故此，这罪孽对于你们，好像高墙上凸出来，将要塌下的裂口，顷刻之间，忽然坍塌。
Therefore this iniquity Will be to you Like a breach ready to fall, Sticking out on a high wall, Whose crashing comes In an instant, suddenly.
30:14 坍塌时好像把窑匠的瓦器打碎，毫不顾惜的打成碎块，甚至碎块中找不到一片，可用以从炉内取火，从池中舀水。
And its crashing will be like the crashing of the potters' vessel: Crushed-he will not spare; And there will not be found Among the crushed pieces a shard With
which to take fire from the hearth Or to draw water from the cistern.
30:15 主耶和华以色列的圣者如此说，你们得救在于归回安息；你们得力在于平静信靠；你们竟自不肯。
For thus says the Lord Jehovah, the Holy One of Israel, In returning and rest you will be saved; In quietness and in trust will be your strength; But you were not
willing,
30:16 你们却说，不然，我们要骑马奔逃；所以你们必然奔逃。又说，我们要骑飞快的牲口；所以追赶你们的，也必飞快。
And said, No, for we will flee on horses; Therefore you will flee. And, We will ride upon the swift; Therefore those who chase you will be swift.
30:17 一人叱喝，必令千人奔逃；五人叱喝，你们都必奔逃，以致剩下的，好像山顶的旗杆，冈上的旌旗。
One thousand will flee at the rebuke of one; At the rebuke of five you will flee, Until you are left Like a bare mast upon a mountaintop And a standard on a hill.
30:18 所以耶和华必然等候，好施恩给你们；祂必留在高处，好怜恤你们；因为耶和华是公平的神；凡等候祂的都是有福的。
And therefore Jehovah waits to be gracious to you, And therefore He remains on high to have compassion on you; For Jehovah is a God of justice; Blessed are
those who wait for Him.
30:19 必有百姓在锡安在耶路撒冷居住；你必不再哭泣；主必因你哀求的声音多多施恩给你；祂听见的时候，就必应允你。
For a people will dwell in Zion at Jerusalem-You will weep no more; He will be most gracious to you at the sound of your cry; When He hears it, He will answer
you.
30:20 主虽以艰难给你当饼，以困苦给你当水，你的教师却不再隐藏，你眼必看见你的教师。
And though the Lord has given you The bread of adversity and the water of oppression, Your Teacher will no longer hide Himself in a corner, But your eyes will
see your Teacher.
30:21 你或向左、或向右，耳中必听见后边有话说，这是正路，要行在其间。
And your ears will hear a word behind you, saying, This is the way, walk in it, When you turn to the right or turn to the left.
30:22 你雕制偶像所包的银子，和铸造偶像所镀的金子，你要玷污，要扬弃它们好像污秽之物；你要对偶像说，去罢！
And you will defile the silver covering of your graven images And the gold plating of your molten idols; You will scatter them like some dirty thing; You will say to it,
Go away!
30:23 你将种子撒在地里，主必赐雨在其上，地所出的粮必肥美丰盛；到那日，你的牲畜必在宽阔的草场吃草。
Then He will give rain for your seed, Which you will sow in the ground, And the bread of the increase of the ground; And it will be fat and plenteous. Your livestock
will feed in that day In a vast pasture.
30:24 耕地的牛和驴驹必吃加盐的料，这料是用铲子和杈子扬净的。
And the oxen and donkeys that work the ground Will eat salted fodder that has been winnowed with shovel and fork.
30:25 在大行杀戮的日子，高台倒塌的时候，各高山和耸起的冈陵必有川流河涌。
And upon every high mountain And upon every prominent hill There will be brooks and streams of water In the day of the great slaughter, when the towers fall.
30:26 当耶和华缠裹祂百姓的伤口、医治祂民受祂击打之伤的日子，月光必像日光，日光必加七倍，像七日的光一样。
And the light of the moon will be like the light of the sun, And the light of the sun will be sevenfold, like the light of seven days, On the day when Jehovah binds up
the breach of His people And heals the wound left from His stroke.
30:27 看哪，耶和华的名从远方来，祂的怒气烧起，密烟上腾；祂的嘴唇满有忿恨，祂的舌头像吞灭的火；
Behold, the name of Jehovah comes from a distance, Burning with His anger and heavy with smoke; His lips are full of indignation, And His tongue is like a
devouring fire;
30:28 祂的气如涨溢的河水，直涨到颈项，要用毁灭的筛把列国筛净；并且在众民的口中，有使人错行的嚼环。
His breath, like an overflowing stream, Reaches up to the neck, To sift the nations with the sieve of nothingness; And a bridle that leads them to err is in the jaws
of the peoples.
30:29 你们必唱歌，像守圣别节期的夜间一样；并且心中喜乐，像人按笛声前行，去耶和华的山，到以色列的磐石那里。
You will have a song As in the night when the feast is sanctified, And gladness of heart as when one marches to the flute To go to the mountain of Jehovah, to
the Rock of Israel.
30:30 耶和华必使人听见祂威严的声音，又以祂爆发的怒气、并吞灭的火焰、与豪雨、暴风、冰雹，使人看见祂降罚的膀臂。
And Jehovah will cause the majesty of His voice to be heard And the descending of His arm to be seen, With the blasting of anger and the flame of devouring fire,
In cloudburst, downpour, and hailstones.
30:31 亚述人必因耶和华的声音惊惶；耶和华必用杖击打他。
For at the voice of Jehovah, Assyria will be dismayed; With a staff He will strike.
30:32 耶和华必将命定的杖加在他身上，每打一下，人必击鼓弹琴；打仗的时候，耶和华必抡起手来与他交战。
And every pass of the appointed rod, Which Jehovah will lay upon him, Will be with tambourines and harps; And in battles of brandishing weapons He will fight
against them.
30:33 原来祂早已将陀斐特安排好，是为王预备的，作得又深又宽。其中堆的是火与许多木柴；耶和华的气如一股硫磺火，使它着起来。
For Topheth has been arranged since long ago; Indeed it has been prepared for the king; He made it deep; He made it large. The pile in it is of fire and much
wood; The breath of Jehovah, like a stream of brimstone, Sets it on fire.
693
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 31 章
31:1 祸哉，那些下埃及求帮助的；他们仗赖马匹，倚靠众多的车辆，并倚靠极其强壮的马兵，却不仰望以色列的圣者，也不求问耶和华！
Woe to those who go down to Egypt for help; They rely on horses And trust in chariots because they are many And in horsemen because they are very strong; But
they do not look to the Holy One of Israel, Nor seek Jehovah!
31:2 其实耶和华也有智慧；祂必降灾祸，并不收回自己的话，却要兴起攻击那作恶之家，又攻击那帮助作孽之人的。
But He also is wise and will bring ill upon them; And He does not turn back His words, But will rise up against the house of evildoers And against the help of the
workers of iniquity.
31:3 埃及人不过是人，并不是神；他们的马不过是血肉，并不是灵；耶和华一伸手，那帮助人的必绊跌，那受帮助的也必仆倒，都一同灭亡。
The Egyptians are mere men and not God, And their horses are mere flesh and not spirit; Thus Jehovah will stretch out His hand, And he who helps will stumble
and he who is helped will fall, And all of them will be consumed together.
31:4 耶和华对我如此说：狮子和少壮狮子获食咆哮，就是喊许多牧人来攻击它，它总不因他们的声音惊惶，也不因他们的喧哗缩伏；万军之耶和华也必如
此降临在锡安山及其冈陵上争战。
For Jehovah has spoken thus to me, As the lion or the lion cub Roars over its prey And because of it a crowd of shepherds Is called out, But it is not frightened by
their voice, Nor overcome by their noise; So Jehovah of hosts will descend To wage war on Mount Zion and on its hill.
31:5 雀鸟怎样扇翅覆雏，万军之耶和华也要照样保护耶路撒冷；祂必保护且拯救、逾越且保全。
Like flying birds So Jehovah of hosts will protect Jerusalem; He will protect and deliver it; He will pass over and rescue it.
31:6 以色列人哪，你们要归向祂，就是你们所深深悖逆的那位。
Return to Him from whom men have deeply revolted, O children of Israel.
31:7 到那日，各人必将自己的银偶像和金偶像，就是你们亲手为自己所造的罪，都抛弃了。
For in that day each man will cast away his idols of silver and his idols of gold, which your hands have made for you as a sin.
31:8 亚述人必倒在刀下，并非人的刀；有刀要将他吞灭，并非人的刀。他必逃避刀剑，他的少年人必成为服苦役的。
And the Assyrian will fall by the sword not of a man, And the sword not of man will devour him. Thus he will flee from a sword, And his young men will be forced
into labor.
31:9 他的磐石必因惊吓挪去，他的首领必因旌旗惊惶；这是那有火在锡安、有炉在耶路撒冷的耶和华说的。
And his rock will pass away in terror, And his princes will be dismayed by the standard, Declares Jehovah, whose fire is in Zion And whose furnace is in
Jerusalem.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 32 章
32:1 看哪，必有一王凭公义作王，必有首领按公平掌权。
Indeed a King will reign according to righteousness, And the rulers will rule according to justice.
32:2 必有一人像避风所，和避暴雨的隐密处，像河流在干旱之地，像大磐石的影子在疲乏之地。
And a man will be like a refuge from the wind And a covering from the tempest, Like streams of water in a dry place, Like the shadow of a massive rock in a
wasted land.
32:3 那能看的人，眼必不昏蒙；能听的人，耳必然倾听。
And the eyes of those who see will not be dim, And the ears of those who hear will attend.
32:4 冒失人的心，必明白知识；结巴人的舌，必说话流利。
And the heart of the hasty will understand knowledge, And the tongue of those who stammer will hasten to speak elegantly.
32:5 愚顽人不再称为高尚，奸险人不再称为大方。
The fool will no longer be called noble, Nor will the cheat be said to be generous;
32:6 因为愚顽人必说愚顽话，心里想行罪孽，作亵渎的事，说错谬的话攻击耶和华，使饥饿的人无食可吃，使口渴的人无水可喝。
For the fool will speak foolishness, And his heart will commit iniquity By committing profaneness And by speaking error against Jehovah, By leaving the soul of the
hungry empty And by causing drink for the thirsty to fail.
32:7 奸险人的手段是恶的；他图谋恶计，用谎言毁灭困苦人；穷乏人讲公理的时候，他也是这样行。
And as for the cheat, his tools are evil; He devises wicked schemes To destroy the poor with false words Even when the needy speaks rightly.
32:8 高尚人却谋高尚事，他必在高尚事上站立得稳。
But the noble man devises noble things, And upon noble things he stands.
32:9 安逸的妇女阿，起来听我的声音；
Rise up, O women who are at ease, And hear my voice; O daughters of complacency, Hearken to my words.
32:10 无虑的女子阿，侧耳听我的言语。无虑的女子阿，再过一年多，你们必受搅扰；因为无葡萄可摘，收禾稼的日子必不来到。
In a year and some days You will be troubled, O complacent ones; For the vintage is at its end; The ingathering will not come.
32:11 安逸的妇女阿，要战兢；无虑的女子阿，要受搅扰。你们要脱去衣服，赤着身体，腰束麻布，
Tremble, O women at ease; Be troubled, O complacent ones. Strip yourselves and be bare, And gird your loins with sackcloth.
32:12 为着美好的田地，为着多结果的葡萄树，捶胸哀哭。
They beat their breasts For the pleasant fields, For the fruitful vine.
32:13 荆棘蒺藜必长在我百姓的地上，又长在欢乐城中一切快乐的房屋上。
Upon the land of my people Will come up thorns and briers, Indeed upon all the jubilant houses In the exultant city.
32:14 因为宫堡必被撇下；多民的城必被离弃；山冈和守望楼必永为洞穴，作野驴所喜乐的，为羊群的草场；
Because the palace will be abandoned; The multitude of the city will be forsaken; The Hill and the watchtower Will become caves forever, A joy for wild asses, A
pasture for flocks;
32:15 等到那灵从高处浇灌在我们身上，旷野就变为肥田，肥田看为树林。
Until the Spirit is poured upon us from on high, And the wilderness becomes a fruitful field, And the fruitful field is considered to be a forest.
32:16 那时，公平要住在旷野，公义要居于肥田；
Then justice will dwell in the wilderness, And righteousness will remain in the fruitful field;
694
32:17 公义的果效必是平安；公义的效验必是平静稳妥，直到永远。
And the work of righteousness will be peace, And the result of righteousness, quietness and assurance forever.
32:18 我的百姓必住在平安的居所、安稳的住处、平静的安歇所。
And my people will live in a peaceful habitation And in secure dwellings and carefree resting places.
32:19 但要降冰雹打倒树林；城必全然拆平。
And it will hail when the forest comes down, And the city will be utterly laid low.
32:20 你们在各水边撒种、牧放牛驴的有福了。
Blessed are you who sow beside all the water, Who send there the feet of the ox and the donkey.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 33 章
33:1 祸哉，你这毁灭人、自己倒不被毁灭的，行事诡诈、人倒不以诡诈相待的！你毁灭罢休了，自己必被毁灭；你行完了诡诈，人必以诡诈相待。
Woe to you who destroy and were not destroyed, And to him who deals unfaithfully and was not dealt with unfaithfully! When you have finished destroying, you
will be destroyed; And when you cease to deal unfaithfully, they will deal unfaithfully with you.
33:2 耶和华阿，求你恩待我们；我们等候你；求你每早晨作我们的膀臂，又在遭难的时候为我们的拯救。
O Jehovah, be gracious to us; we have waited for You; Be our arm every morning, Our salvation also in the time of distress.
33:3 喧嚷的响声一发，众民奔逃；你一兴起，列国四散。
At the noise of the tumult the peoples flee; At the lifting up of Yourself the nations were scattered.
33:4 你们所掳的必被敛尽，好像蚂蚱敛尽禾稼；人要冲拥而上，好像蝗虫一样。
And your spoil will be gathered as the caterpillar gathers; As locusts rush to and fro, men will rush to and fro upon it.
33:5 耶和华被尊崇，因祂居在高处；祂以公平和公义充满锡安。
Jehovah is exalted, for He dwells on high; He has filled Zion with justice and righteousness.
33:6 你一生的时日必得安稳，有丰盛的救恩、智慧和知识；敬畏耶和华是你的宝藏。
And there will be stability for your times: A wealth of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge; The fear of Jehovah is his treasure.
33:7 看哪，他们的豪杰在街市哀号；求和的使臣痛痛哭泣。
Indeed their heroes cry in the streets; The ambassadors of peace weep bitterly.
33:8 大路荒凉，行人止息；敌人背约，藐视城邑，不顾人民。
The highways are desolate; The traveler ceases to travel. He has broken the covenant; he despises the cities; He does not regard man.
33:9 大地悲哀衰残；利巴嫩羞愧枯干；沙仑像旷野，巴珊和迦密的树林凋残。
The land mourns and languishes; Lebanon is ashamed and withers away; Sharon is like a desert, And Bashan and Carmel shake off their leaves.
33:10 耶和华说，现在我要起来，我要被尊崇；我要被高举。
Now I will arise, says Jehovah, Now I will be exalted; now I will be lifted up.
33:11 你们要怀的是糠秕，要生的是碎秸；你们的气要如火吞灭自己；
You will conceive chaff; you will give birth to stubble; Your own breath, like fire, will devour you;
33:12 众民必像燃烧的石灰，像已割的荆棘在火中焚烧。
And the peoples will be like the burning of lime, Like cut down thorns that are burned in the fire.
33:13 你们远方的人，当听我所行的；你们近处的人，当认识我的大能。
Hear, you who are far off, what I have done; And know, you who are near, My might.
33:14 锡安中的罪人都惧怕；不虔敬的人被战兢抓住：我们中间谁能与吞灭的火同住？我们中间谁能与永远焚烧的火同住？
The sinners in Zion are terrified; Trembling has seized the profane: Who among us can dwell with consuming fire? Who among us can dwell with everlasting
burning?
33:15 那行事公义，说话正直，弃绝欺压之财利，摆手不受贿赂，塞耳不听流血之事，闭眼不看邪恶之事的，
He who walks in righteousness and speaks uprightness; He who rejects gains seized by extortion; He who shakes his hands lest they hold on to a bribe, Who
stops his ears so as not to hear of bloodshed And shuts his eyes so as not to look at evil.
33:16 他必居高处；他的高台是磐石的坚垒；他的粮食必供应无缺，他的水源必确实可靠。
This one will dwell on the heights; His lofty retreat will be the rocky strongholds; His bread will be given to him; his water will be sure.
33:17 你的眼必见王的华美，必见遥远之地。
Your eyes will see the King in His beauty; They will behold a land that is very far away.
33:18 你的心必默想已往惊吓的事，自问说，记数目的在那里？称贡银的在那里？数戍楼的在那里？
Your heart will meditate on terror: Where is he who counts? Where is he who weighs? Where is he who counts the towers?
33:19 你必不见那强暴的民，就是言语深奥，难以听懂，说话结巴，难以明白的民。
You will not see a fierce people, A people of unintelligible speech, hardly audible, Of a stammering tongue which cannot be understood.
33:20 你要观看锡安我们守所定节期的城；你的眼必见耶路撒冷为安稳的居所，为不挪移的帐幕，橛子永不拔出，绳索一根也不折断。
Look upon Zion, the city of our appointed feasts; Your eyes will see Jerusalem, A secure habitation, a tent that will not be removed; Its stakes will never be pulled
up, And none of its cords will be torn apart.
33:21 在那里，那威严者耶和华之于我们，必如江河宽渠溢流之处，其中必没有荡桨摇橹的船来往，也没有威武的船经过。
But there the Majestic, Jehovah, will be for us A place of rivers and broad streams, On which no boat with oars will go And no majestic ship will pass.
33:22 因为耶和华是审判我们的，耶和华是给我们设律法的，耶和华是我们的王；祂必拯救我们。
For Jehovah is our Judge, Jehovah is our Lawmaker, Jehovah is our King; He will save us.
33:23 你的绳索松开了，不能栽稳桅杆，也不能扬起帆来；那时许多掳来的物被分了；瘸腿的把掠物夺去了。
Your tackle has been slackened; It does not support its mast firmly, Nor does it spread out the sail. Then the prey of abundant spoil is divided; The lame take the
plunder.
33:24 城内居民必不说，我病了；其中居住的百姓，罪孽都赦免了。
And the inhabitant will not say, I am sick; The people who dwell there will be forgiven their iniquity.
695
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 34 章
34:1 列国阿，要近前来听；众民哪，要留心听！地和其上所充满的，世界和其中所出的一切，都应当听。
Draw near, O nations, to hear; And listen, O peoples! Let the earth and all that fills it hear, The world and all that springs forth from it.
34:2 因为耶和华的忿怒临到万国，祂的烈怒临到他们的全军；祂已将他们灭尽，交出他们受杀戮。
For Jehovah's indignation is upon all the nations, And His wrath is upon all their armies; He has utterly destroyed them; He has delivered them unto the slaughter.
34:3 他们被杀的必被抛弃，尸首臭气上腾；诸山被他们的血融化。
Thus their slain are cast away, And from their corpses their stench will come up; And the mountains will be melted with their blood.
34:4 天上的万象都要消没，天要卷起好像书卷，其上的万象都要衰败，像葡萄树的叶子凋残，又像无花果树的叶子凋残。
And all the armies of heaven will be dissolved, And the heavens will be rolled up like a scroll, And all their host will wither away, As the leaf withers from the vine,
Or like a leaf withering from the fig tree.
34:5 因为我的刀在天上已经喝足；看哪，这刀必落在以东和我所要灭尽的民身上，施行审判。
For My sword has drunk its fill in heaven. Now it will descend in judgment upon Edom And upon the people whom I have devoted to judgment.
34:6 耶和华的刀满了血，是用脂油、用羊羔和公山羊的血、并用公绵羊腰子的脂油滋润的；因为耶和华在波斯拉有献祭的事，在以东地大行杀戮。
Jehovah's sword is full of blood; It has fattened itself with fat, With the blood of lambs and goats, With the fat of the kidneys of rams; For Jehovah has a sacrifice in
Bozrah And a great slaughter in the land of Edom.
34:7 野牛、牛犊、和公牛要一同下来；他们的地要喝足血，他们的尘土要因脂油肥润。
Wild oxen will also go down with them, The young bulls with the bulls; And their land will drink its fill of their blood, And their dust will become fat with their fat.
34:8 因耶和华有报仇之日，为锡安的争辩，有报应之年。
For Jehovah has a day of vengeance, A year of recompense for Zion's contention.
34:9 以东的河水要变为柏油，尘埃要变为硫磺，地土要成为烧着的柏油。
And its streams will be turned into pitch, And its dust into brimstone; And its land will become burning pitch.
34:10 昼夜总不熄灭，烟气永远上腾；必世世代代成为荒凉，永永远远无人经过。
It will not be quenched by night or by day; Its smoke will go up forever; It will be desolate from generation to generation; No one will pass through it forever and
ever.
34:11 鹈鹕和箭猪却要得为业，猫头鹰和乌鸦要住在其间；耶和华必将荒废的准绳和空虚的线铊拉在其上。
But the pelican and the porcupine will inherit it, And the owl and the raven will dwell in it; And He will stretch over it The line of nothingness and the plummet
weights of emptiness.
34:12 以东人要召贵胄来治国，那里却无一个，首领也都归于无有。
As for its nobles, there is no one there whom they may call to assume the kingdom, And all its princes will be nothing.
34:13 以东的宫堡要长荆棘，坚固城要长刺草和蒺藜；以东要作野狗的住处、鸵鸟的居所。
And thorns will come up in its citadels, Nettles and thistles in its fortified cities; And it will be a habitation for jackals, And an abode for ostriches.
34:14 旷野的走兽要和豺狼相遇；野山羊要与伴偶对叫；连夜间的怪物也在那里栖身，为自己找着安歇之处。
Desert animals will meet with hyenas; And the demon will call to his kind, Indeed there Lilith will settle And find a resting place for herself.
34:15 猫头鹰要在那里作窝、下蛋、孵蛋、聚子在其荫下；鹞鹰也各与伴偶聚集在那里。
There the owl will make its nest and lay eggs, And hatch them and gather them under its protection; Indeed there the vultures will be gathered together, Each
with its kind.
34:16 你们要查考宣读耶和华的书。这些都无一缺少，无一没有伴偶，因为祂的口已经吩咐，祂的灵已将它们聚集。
Seek from the book of Jehovah and read. Not one of these will be missing; Not one will lack her mate; For His mouth has commanded it, And it is His Spirit who
has gathered them.
34:17 祂也为它们拈了阄，又亲手用准绳给它们分了地；它们必永得为业，世世代代住在其间。
And He has cast the lot for them, And His hand has divided it by line unto them; They will inherit it forever; From generation to generation they will dwell in it.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 35 章
35:1 旷野和干旱之地必然欢喜；沙漠也必欢腾，又像玫瑰开花。
The wilderness and the desert will be glad; And the desert will exult and blossom Like the rose.
35:2 必开花繁盛，乐上加乐，而且欢呼；利巴嫩的荣耀、迦密与沙仑的华美，必赐给它；人必看见耶和华的荣耀，我们神的华美。
It will blossom and blossom, And even exult with exultation and a ringing shout. The glory of Lebanon will be given to it, The splendor of Carmel and Sharon; They
will see the glory of Jehovah, The splendor of our God.
35:3 你们要使软弱的手坚壮，使战抖的膝稳固。
Strengthen the weak hands, And confirm the shaking knees.
35:4 对忧心的人说，你们要刚强，不要惧怕；看哪，你们的神必来伸冤，必来施行神的报应；祂必来拯救你们。
Say to those who are of anxious heart, Be strong; fear not; Indeed your God Will come with vengeance, With the recompense of God; He will come and save you.
35:5 那时瞎子的眼必睁开，聋子的耳必开通。
Then the eyes of the blind will be opened, And the ears of the deaf will be unstopped;
35:6 那时瘸子必跳跃像鹿，哑吧的舌头必欢呼；在旷野必有水发出，在沙漠必有河涌流。
Then the lame will leap like a hart, And the tongue of the dumb will give a ringing shout; For water will break forth in the wilderness, And streams in the desert.
35:7 灼热的沙地要变为水池，干渴之地要变为水泉；在野狗居住躺卧之处，必有青草、芦苇和蒲草。
And the desert mirage will become a pool, And the thirsty ground, springs of water; In the habitation of jackals, their resting place, There will be grass with reeds
and rushes.
35:8 在那里必有一条大道，一条路，称为圣别之路；污秽人不得经过，乃为赎民行走；人虽愚昧，也不至失迷。
And a highway will be there, and a way, And it will be called, The Way of Holiness. The unclean will not pass on it, But it will be for him who walks on the way; No
fools will err in it.
35:9 在那里必没有狮子，猛兽也不登这路，在那里都遇不见；只有赎民在那里行走。
696
There will be no lion there, Nor will any ravenous animal go up on it; They will not be found there; But the redeemed will walk on it.
35:10 耶和华救赎的民必归回，欢呼来到锡安，永远的喜乐必归到他们头上。他们必得着欢喜快乐，忧愁叹息尽都逃避。
And the ransomed of Jehovah will return And will come to Zion with a ringing shout, And eternal joy will be upon their heads. They will lay hold on gladness and
joy, And sorrow and sighing will flee away.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 36 章
36:1 希西家王十四年，亚述王西拿基立上来攻击犹大的一切坚固城，将那些城攻取了。
In the fourteenth year of King Heze kiah, Sennacherib the king of Assyria went up against all the fortified cities of Judah and took them.
36:2 亚述王从拉吉差遣军长率领大军往耶路撒冷，到希西家王那里去。他站在上池的引水道旁，在通往漂布地的大路上。
And the king of Assyria sent Rab- shakeh from Lachish to Jerusalem to King Hezekiah with a great force. And he stood at the conduit of the upper pool, on the
road to the Fuller's Field.
36:3 于是希勒家的儿子家宰以利亚敬、书记舍伯那、和亚萨的儿子记事官约亚，出来见军长。
Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder, came out to him.
36:4 军长对他们说，你们去告诉希西家，亚述大王如此说，你所倚靠的有什么可仗赖的呢？
And Rab-shakeh said to them, Say now to Hezekiah, Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria, What is this confidence in which you trust?
36:5 你说有打仗的计谋和能力，我说，不过是虚言。你到底倚靠谁才背叛我呢？
I say, It is but a vain word that you say, There is counsel and strength for war. Now in whom do you trust, that you rebel against me?
36:6 看哪，你倚靠埃及，乃是倚靠压伤的苇杖，人若靠这杖，这杖必刺透他的手；埃及王法老向一切倚靠他的人正是这样。
You now have put your trust in the staff of this broken reed, in Egypt, which, if a man should lean on it, will go into his hand and pierce it, for so is Pharaoh, the
king of Egypt, to all who trust in him.
36:7 你若对我说，我们信靠耶和华我们的神；希西家岂不是曾将这位神的邱坛和祭坛废去，且对犹大和耶路撒冷的人说，你们当在这坛前敬拜么？
And if you say to me, We trust in Jehovah our God; is it not He whose high places and altars Hezekiah has taken away and has said to Judah and Jerusalem, You
shall worship only before this altar?
36:8 现在你把抵押给我主亚述王，我就给你二千匹马，看你能不能派出足够骑马的人。
Now therefore give pledges to my master, the king of Assyria, and I will give you two thousand horses, if indeed you are able to set riders on them.
36:9 若不然，你怎能拒绝我主臣仆中一位最小的官长呢？你竟倚靠埃及供应你战车马兵么？
How then can you refuse one official of the least of my master's servants and put your trust in Egypt for chariots and horsemen?
36:10 现在我上来攻击毁灭这地，岂没有耶和华的意思么？耶和华对我说，你上去攻击毁灭这地罢。
And have I now come up apart from Jehovah against this land to destroy it? Jehovah said to me, Go up against this land and destroy it.
36:11 以利亚敬、舍伯那和约亚对军长说，求你用亚兰语和仆人说话，因为我们懂得；不要用犹大语和我们说话，免得达到城墙上百姓的耳中。
And Eliakim and Shebna and Joah said to Rab-shakeh, Please speak to your servants in Aramaic, because we understand it; and do not speak to us in the Jews'
language, in the ears of the people upon the wall.
36:12 军长说，我主差遣我来，岂是单对你的主和你说这些话么？不也是对这些坐在城墙上，要与你们一同吃自己粪、喝自己尿的人说么？
But Rab-shakeh said, Has my master sent me only to your master and to you to speak these words, and not to the men who sit on the wall, that they may eat
their own dung and drink their own urine with you?
36:13 于是军长站着，用犹大语大声喊着说，你们当听亚述大王的话。
Then Rab-shakeh stood and cried out with a loud voice in the Jews' language, and said, Listen to the words of the great king, the king of Assyria:
36:14 王如此说，你们不要被希西家欺哄了，因他不能拯救你们；
Thus says the king, Do not let Hezekiah deceive you, because he is not able to deliver you;
36:15 也不要让希西家使你们信靠耶和华，说，耶和华必拯救我们，这城必不交在亚述王的手中。
Neither let Hezekiah cause you to trust in Jehovah, saying, Jehovah will surely deliver us, and this city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.
36:16 不要听希西家的话，因亚述王如此说，你们要与我和好，出来向我投降；各人就可以吃自己葡萄树和无花果树的果子，喝自己井里的水；
Do not listen to Hezekiah; for thus says the king of Assyria, Make your peace with me, and come out to me, and let each eat from his own vine and each from his
own fig tree, and let each drink the waters of his own cistern;
36:17 等我来领你们到一地，与你们本地一样，就是有五谷和新酒之地，有粮食和葡萄园之地。
Until I come and take you away to a land like your land, a land of grain and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards.
36:18 你们要谨防，恐怕希西家劝导你们说，耶和华必拯救我们。列国的神有那一个曾救自己的地脱离亚述王的手呢？
Be careful lest Hezekiah persuade you, saying, Jehovah will deliver us. Have any of the gods of the nations delivered their land out of the hand of the king of
Assyria?
36:19 哈马、亚珥拔的神在那里？西法瓦音的神在那里？他们曾救撒玛利亚脱离我的手么？
Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim? And have they delivered Samaria out of my hand?
36:20 这些地所有的神中，有谁曾救自己的地脱离我的手呢？难道耶和华能救耶路撒冷脱离我的手么？
Who among all the gods of these lands have delivered their land out of my hand, that Jehovah should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?
36:21 百姓静默不言，并不回答一句，因为王曾吩咐说，不要回答他。
But they were silent and did not answer him a word, because of the commandment of the king that said, You shall not answer him.
36:22 当下，希勒家的儿子家宰以利亚敬、书记舍伯那、并亚萨的儿子记事官约亚，都撕裂衣服，来到希西家那里，将军长的话告诉了他。
Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder, came to Hezekiah with their
clothes torn and told him the words of Rab-shakeh.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 37 章
37:1 希西家王听见，就撕裂衣服，披上麻布，进了耶和华的殿。
And when King Hezekiah heard, he tore his clothes, and covered himself with sackcloth and went into the house of Jehovah.
697
37:2 他打发家宰以利亚敬、书记舍伯那、和祭司中的长老，都披上麻布，去见亚摩斯的儿子申言者以赛亚，
And he sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe and the elders of the priests, who had covered themselves in sackcloth, to Isaiah the
son of Amoz, the prophet.
37:3 对他说，希西家如此说，今日是急难、责罚、凌辱的日子，就如孩子临产，妇人却没有力量生产。
And they said to him, Thus says Hezekiah, This day is a day of affliction, rebuke, and contempt, for children have come to the point of birth, and there is no
strength to bring them forth.
37:4 或者耶和华你的神听见军长的话，就是他主人亚述王打发他来辱骂活神的话，耶和华你的神听了，就斥责这些话。故此，求你为余剩的民扬声祷告。
It may be that Jehovah your God will hear the words of Rab-shakeh, whom his master the king of Assyria sent to reproach the living God, and will reprove the
words which Jehovah your God has heard. Therefore lift up a prayer for the remnant which is left.
37:5 希西家王的臣仆就去见以赛亚。
So the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah.
37:6 以赛亚对他们说，要这样对你们的主人说，耶和华如此说，你听见亚述王的仆人亵渎我的话，不要惧怕。
And Isaiah said to them, Thus you shall say to your master, Thus says Jehovah, Do not be afraid of the words which you have heard, with which the servants of
the king of Assyria have blasphemed Me.
37:7 看哪，我必使一灵进入他里面，他要听见风声就归回本地。我必使他在那里倒在刀下。
Indeed I will put a spirit in him, so that he will hear a report and return to his land. And I will cause him to fall by the sword in his own land.
37:8 军长回去，正遇见亚述王攻打立拿；原来他早听见亚述王拔营离开拉吉。
And Rab-shakeh returned and found the king of Assyria fighting against Libnah, because he had heard that the king had departed from Lachish.
37:9 亚述王听见人论古实王特哈加说，他出来要与你争战。亚述王一听见，就打发使者去见希西家，吩咐他们说，
And he heard a report about Tirhakah the king of Ethiopia which said, He has come forth to make war with you. And when he heard it, he sent messengers to
Hezekiah, saying,
37:10 你们对犹大王希西家如此说，不要让你所信靠的神欺哄你，说，耶路撒冷必不交在亚述王的手中。
In this way you shall speak to Hezekiah the king of Judah, saying, Do not let your God in whom you trust deceive you, saying, Jerusalem will not be delivered into
the hand of the king of Assyria.
37:11 你总听说亚述诸王向各地所行的，乃是尽行毁灭，难道你还能得拯救么？
Indeed you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all the lands, destroying them utterly. And will you be delivered?
37:12 我列祖所毁灭的，就是歌散、哈兰、利色、和在提拉撒的伊甸人，这些国的神何曾拯救这些国呢？
Have the gods of the nations, whom my fathers destroyed, delivered them: Gozan and Haran and Rezeph and the children of Eden, who were in Telassar?
37:13 哈马的王和亚珥拔的王，西法瓦音城、希拿和以瓦的王都在那里呢？
Where are the king of Hamath and the king of Arpad and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, of Hena and Ivvah?
37:14 希西家从使者手里接过书信来，念完了，就上耶和华的殿，将书信展开在耶和华面前。
And Hezekiah took the letter from the hand of the messengers and read it, and Hezekiah went up to the house of Jehovah and spread it before Jehovah.
37:15 希西家向耶和华祷告，说，
And Hezekiah prayed to Jehovah, saying,
37:16 坐在二基路伯中间万军之耶和华以色列的神阿，惟独你是地上万国的神，你曾创造诸天与地。
O Jehovah of hosts, God of Israel, who dwells between the cherubim, You, You alone are God of all the kingdoms of the earth; You made the heavens and the
earth.
37:17 耶和华阿，求你侧耳而听；耶和华阿，求你睁眼而看；要听西拿基立打发使者来辱骂活神的一切话。
Incline Your ear, O Jehovah, and hear; open Your eyes, O Jehovah, and see; and listen to all the words of Sennacherib, who has sent messengers to reproach the
living God.
37:18 耶和华阿，亚述诸王果真使列国和列国之地变为荒凉，
Truly, O Jehovah, the kings of Assyria have laid waste all the countries and their land,
37:19 将列国的神像都扔在火里，因为它们本不是神，乃是人手所造的，是木头和石头的，所以被灭绝。
And have cast their gods into the fire, because they were not gods, but the work of men's hands, wood and stone; so they destroyed them.
37:20 耶和华我们的神阿，现在求你救我们脱离亚述王的手，使地上万国都知道，惟独你是耶和华。
And now, O Jehovah our God, save us from his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that You alone are Jehovah.
37:21 亚摩斯的儿子以赛亚，就打发人去见希西家，说，耶和华以色列的神如此说，你既向我祷告亚述王西拿基立的事，
Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent a message to Hezekiah, saying, Thus says Jehovah the God of Israel, Because you have prayed to Me concerning Sennacherib
the king of Assyria,
37:22 所以耶和华论他这样说，锡安的处女藐视你，嗤笑你；耶路撒冷的女子在你背后摇头。
This is the word which Jehovah has spoken concerning him: The virgin daughter of Zion Has despised you and laughed at you; The daughter of Jerusalem Has
shaken her head behind you.
37:23 你辱骂谁？亵渎谁？你扬起声来，高举眼目攻击谁呢？乃是攻击以色列的圣者。
Whom have you reproached and reviled? Against whom have you lifted up your voice And lifted up your eyes haughtily? Against the Holy One of Israel.
37:24 你藉你的臣仆辱骂主，你说，我率领许多战车上了山岭的高处，到了利巴嫩极深之处；我要砍伐其中高大的香柏树，和佳美的松树；我必进到其中
极远的高处，和其中茂密的树林。
By your servants you have reproached the Lord, And you have said, In the multitude of my chariots, I have come up to the heights of the mountains, To the sides
of Lebanon. And I will cut down its tall cedars, And the choicest of its cypresses: I will enter into its farthest height And its luxuriant forest.
37:25 我已经挖井喝水；我必用脚掌踏干埃及一切的河。
I have dug; I have drunk water; With the sole of my foot I have dried up All the rivers of Egypt.
37:26 耶和华说，我早先所作的，古时所定的，你岂没有听见么？现在我将它实现，就是藉你使坚固城荒废，变为乱堆。
Have you not heard That long ago I did it; And from the days of old I had formed it? Now I have brought it to pass, That you should destroy fortified cities, And
make them into ruinous heaps.
37:27 所以其中的居民力量短缺，惊惶羞愧；他们像田间的菜蔬和嫩草的青苗，如长在房顶上的草，未长成就被晒枯。
Therefore their inhabitants were short of strength; They were dismayed and felt ashamed; And they were like vegetation of the field And green shoots of tender
grass, Like grass which grows on the housetops And is scorched before it has grown up.
698
37:28 你坐下，你出去，你进来，你向我发烈怒，我都知道。
But I know your sitting down, And your going out and your coming in, And your raging against Me.
37:29 因你向我发烈怒，又因你狂傲的话上达我的耳中，我必用钩子钩住你的鼻子，把嚼环放在你的嘴里，使你从原路转回去。
Because your raging against Me And your arrogance has come up into My ears, I will put My hook in your nose And My bridle in your lips, And turn you back on
the way by which you came.
37:30 希西家阿，这是给你的兆头：你们今年要吃遗落自生的，明年也要吃遗落自长的；至于后年，你们要撒种收割，栽植葡萄园，吃其中的果子。
This shall be the sign to you: This year you shall eat that which grows up of itself, and the second year that which shoots up from the same, and in the third year
sow and reap and plant vineyards and eat their fruit.
37:31 犹大家所逃脱余剩的，仍要往下扎根，向上结果。
And the remnant of those who have escaped of the house of Judah will again take root downward and bear fruit upward.
37:32 必有余剩的民从耶路撒冷而出，必有逃脱的人从锡安山而来。万军之耶和华的热心必成就这事。
For a remnant will go forth out of Jerusalem, and from Mount Zion those who have escaped. The zeal of Jehovah of hosts will perform this.
37:33 所以，耶和华论亚述王如此说，他必不得来到这城，也不在这里射箭；不得拿盾牌到城前，也不筑垒攻城。
Therefore, thus says Jehovah concerning the king of Assyria, He shall not come to this city, Nor shoot an arrow there; Neither shall he come against it with shields,
And build up a mound against it.
37:34 他从那条路来，必从那条路回去，必不得进入这城；这是耶和华说的。
By the way on which he came, By the same shall he return, And into this city he shall not come, Declares Jehovah.
37:35 我为自己的缘故，又为我仆人大卫的缘故，必保护拯救这城。
And around this city I will put an enclosure To save it, For My own sake And for the sake of David, My servant.
37:36 耶和华的使者出去，在亚述营中杀了十八万五千人；清早有人起来一看，都是死尸了。
Then the angel of Jehovah went out and struck the Assyrians' camp, a hundred and eighty-five thousand; and when they arose early in the morning, all of them
were dead corpses.
37:37 亚述王西拿基立就拔营回去，住在尼尼微。
Then Sennacherib the king of Assyria departed and went back to dwell in Nineveh.
37:38 一日在他的神尼斯洛庙里叩拜，他儿子亚得米勒和沙利色用刀杀了他，就逃到亚拉腊地。他儿子以撒哈顿接续他作王。
And when he was worshipping in the house of his god Nisroch, Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons slew him with the sword; and they escaped to the land of
Ararat. And Esar-haddon his son reigned in his place.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 38 章
38:1 那些日子，希西家病得要死；亚摩斯的儿子申言者以赛亚去见他，对他说，耶和华如此说，你当留遗命给你的家，因为你将要死，不能活了。
In those days Hezekiah became mortally ill; and Isaiah the son of Amoz, the prophet, came to him and said to him, Thus says Jehovah, Put your house in order,
for you are about to die and will not live.
38:2 希西家就转脸朝墙，祷告耶和华，
And Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to Jehovah,
38:3 说，耶和华阿，求你记念我在你面前怎样按真实，并存完全的心行事，又作了你眼中所看为善的。希西家就痛哭了。
And said, Now, O Jehovah, please remember how I have walked before You in truth and with a perfect heart and have done that which is good in Your sight. And
Hezekiah wept many tears.
38:4 耶和华的话临到以赛亚，说，
Then the word of Jehovah came to Isaiah, saying,
38:5 你去告诉希西家，耶和华你祖大卫的神如此说，我听见了你的祷告，看见了你的眼泪；看哪，我必加增你十五年的寿数。
Go and speak to Hezekiah, Thus says Jehovah, the God of David your father, I have heard your prayer, I have seen your tears; I will now add to your life fifteen
years.
38:6 并且我要救你和这城脱离亚述王的手，也要保护这城。
And I will deliver you and this city from the hand of the king of Assyria, and I will put an enclosure around this city.
38:7 耶和华必成就祂所说的事。这是祂给你的兆头：
And this will be the sign from Jehovah to you, that Jehovah will do this thing which He has spoken.
38:8 看哪，我必使亚哈斯台阶上那已经随日头下落的日影往后退十级。于是那落在台阶上的日影果然往后退了十级。
Behold, I will cause the shadow on the steps, which has gone down with the sun on the steps of Ahaz, to go back ten steps. So the sun's shadow went back ten
steps on the steps on which it had gone down.
38:9 犹大王希西家患病痊愈以后，就写了这诗：
The writing of Hezekiah the king of Judah when he had been sick and had recovered from his sickness:
38:10 我说，正在我盛年之日，我就要进入阴间的门；我余剩的年岁已被夺去。
I said, In the middle of my days, I will go into the gates of Sheol; I have been deprived of the rest of my years.
38:11 我说，我必不得见耶和华，就是不得在活人之地见耶和华；我要与住在万事休止之处的人同在，不得再见活人。
I said, I will not see Jah, Jah in the land of the living; I will not look on man any longer, While I am with those who dwell where everything has ceased.
38:12 我的住处已被拔起离开我，好像牧人的帐棚一样。我已将性命卷起，像织布的卷布一样；耶和华必将我从织布机头剪断；无论昼夜，你要使我终结。
Like a shepherd's tent, My dwelling has been pulled up and removed from me. Like a weaver, I have rolled up my life. He will cut me off from the loom; From day
until night You make an end of me.
38:13 我使自己安静直到天亮；祂像狮子折断我一切的骨头；无论昼夜，你要使我终结。
I have stilled myself until the morning; Like a lion, so He breaks all my bones; From day until night You make an end of me.
38:14 我像燕子呢喃，像白鹤鸣叫；又像鸽子哀鸣；我因仰望高处，眼睛困倦；主阿，我受欺压，求你为我作保。
Like a swallow and a crane, so I twitter; Like a dove, I mourn; My eyes look languishingly above; O Lord, I am oppressed; be my surety.
38:15 我可说什么呢？祂应许了我，也亲自作成了；我因魂里的苦楚，在一生的年日，必谨慎而行。
What shall I say? He has both spoken to me, And He Himself has done it; I will walk deliberately all my years, Because of the bitterness of my soul.
699
38:16 主阿，人活着乃靠这些；我灵活着也全在于这些；所以求你使我痊愈，让我存活。
O Lord, upon all these things men live; And in all of these things is the life of my spirit; Therefore may You restore my strength And make me live.
38:17 看哪，我受大苦，本为使我得平安；你因爱拯救了我的魂脱离毁灭的坑，因为你已将我一切的罪扔在你的背后。
Indeed for peace I had bitterness, yes, bitterness; But You have lovingly delivered my soul from the pit of destruction, Because You have cast behind Your back All
my sins.
38:18 原来阴间不能称谢你，死亡不能赞美你；下坑的人不能盼望你的真实。
For Sheol cannot thank You, And Death cannot praise You; They that go down to the pit Cannot hope in Your truth.
38:19 只有活人，活人必称谢你，像我今日称谢你一样；为父的必使儿女知道你的真实。
The living, the living, he will praise You, As I do today; A father shall make known Your truth to his children.
38:20 耶和华肯救我，所以我们要一生一世在耶和华殿中，用丝弦的乐器弹奏我的诗歌。
Jehovah is ready to save me; Therefore we will sing my songs, With stringed instruments, All the days of our life, In the house of Jehovah.
38:21 以赛亚曾说，当取一块无花果饼来，敷在疮上，王必得活。
Then Isaiah said, Let them take a cake of figs and rub it upon the boil, and he will live.
38:22 希西家也曾说，我能上耶和华的殿，有什么兆头呢？
Hezekiah had also said, What is the sign that I shall go up to the house of Jehovah?
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 39 章
39:1 那时，巴比伦王巴拉但的儿子米罗达巴拉但听见希西家病而痊愈，就送书信和礼物给他。
At that time Merodach-baladan the son of Baladan, the king of Babylon, sent letters and a gift to Hezekiah because he had heard that he had been sick and had
recovered.
39:2 希西家喜欢见使者，就把他的宝库，银子、金子、香料、和贵重的膏油，以及他整个军器库，并他所珍藏的一切，都给他们看；他家中和他所管治的
全境之内，希西家没有一样不给他们看的。
And Hezekiah was glad for them and showed them his treasury, the silver and the gold, and the spices and the fine oil, and his whole armory and everything
which was found among his treasures; there was nothing in his house or in all his dominion that Hezekiah did not show them.
39:3 于是申言者以赛亚来见希西家王，问他说，这些人说了什么？他们从那里来见你？希西家说，他们从远方的巴比伦来见我。
Then Isaiah the prophet came to King Hezekiah and said to him, What did these men say? And from where have they come to you? And Hezekiah said, They
have come to me from a distant land, from Babylon.
39:4 以赛亚说，他们在你家里看见了什么？希西家说，凡我家中所有的，他们都看见了；我所珍藏的，没有一样不给他们看的。
And he said, What have they seen in your house? And Hezekiah said, They have seen everything that is in my house; there is nothing among my treasures that I
have not shown them.
39:5 以赛亚对希西家说，你要听万军之耶和华的话：
Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, Hear the word of Jehovah of hosts:
39:6 看哪，日子必到，凡你家里所有的，并你列祖积蓄到今日的，都要被带到巴比伦去，不留下一样；这是耶和华说的。
The days are now coming when everything that is in your house and that your fathers have laid up as a treasure unto this day will be carried away to Babylon;
nothing will be left, says Jehovah.
39:7 并且从你而出，你所生的子孙中，必有被掳去在巴比伦王宫里当太监的。
And they will take away some of your sons who will issue from you, whom you will beget, and they will become eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon.
39:8 希西家对以赛亚说，你所说耶和华的话甚好。他又说，在我的年日中必有太平和稳固的景况。
And Hezekiah said to Isaiah, The word of Jehovah which you have spoken is good. He said moreover, Indeed there will be peace and truth in my days.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 40 章
40:1 你们的神说，你们要安慰、安慰我的百姓。
Comfort, O comfort My people, Says your God.
40:2 要对耶路撒冷的心说话，向她呼喊说，她争战的日子满了，她为罪孽所受的刑罚已蒙认可；因她为自己的一切罪，已经从耶和华手中加倍受罚。
Speak unto the heart of Jerusalem, And cry out to her, That her warfare has finished, That the penalty for her iniquity has been accepted; For she has received
from the hand of Jehovah double For all her sins.
40:3 在旷野有人声喊着：预备耶和华的道路，在沙漠修直我们神的大道。
The voice of one who cries In the wilderness: Make clear The way of Jehovah; Make straight in the desert A highway for our God.
40:4 一切山洼都要填满，大小山冈都要削平，弯曲的要修为直路，崎岖的要改为平原。
Every valley will be lifted up, And every mountain and hill will be made low, And the crooked places will become straight, And the rough places, a broad plain.
40:5 耶和华的荣耀必然显现，凡属肉体的人必一同看见，因为这是耶和华亲口说的。
Then the glory of Jehovah will be revealed, And all flesh will see it together, Because the mouth of Jehovah has spoken.
40:6 有人声说，你喊叫罢。有一个说，我喊叫什么呢？说，凡属肉体的人尽都如草，他一切的荣美都像野地的花；
A voice said, Cry out. And he said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grass And all its glory is like the flower of the field;
40:7 草必枯干，花必凋残，因为耶和华的气吹在其上。百姓诚然是草。
The grass withers, the flower fades, Because the breath of Jehovah blows upon it. Surely the people are grass.
40:8 草必枯干，花必凋残，惟有我们神的话必永远立定。
The grass withers and the flower fades, But the word of our God will stand forever.
40:9 报好信息的锡安哪，你要登高山；报好信息的耶路撒冷阿，你要极力扬声；扬声不要惧怕。要对犹大的城邑说，看哪，你们的神！
Go up to a high mountain, O Zion, who brings glad tidings; Lift up your voice with power, O Jerusalem, who brings glad tidings; Lift it up, Do not be afraid. Say to
the cities of Judah, Behold your God!
40:10 看哪，主耶和华必像大能者临到，祂的膀臂必为祂掌权。看哪，祂的赏赐在祂那里，祂的报应在祂面前。
700
Behold, the Lord Jehovah will come as a mighty One, And His arm will rule for Him. Behold, His reward is with Him, And His recompense before Him.
40:11 祂必像牧人牧养自己的羊群，用膀臂聚集羊羔，抱在怀中。祂必引导那乳养小羊的。
He will feed His flock as a Shepherd; In His arm He will gather the lambs; In His bosom He will carry them. He will lead those who are nursing the young.
40:12 谁曾用手心量诸水，用手虎口测诸天，用量器量大地的尘土，用秤称山岭，用天平称冈陵呢？
Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, Who has calculated the extent of the heavens with a handspan, And measured out the dust of the earth
by a measure, And weighed the mountains in scales And the hills in balances?
40:13 谁曾指示耶和华的灵，或作祂的策士指教祂呢？
Who will direct the Spirit of Jehovah, Or who will make matters known to Him as His counselor?
40:14 祂曾与谁商议，谁使祂明白，谁将公平的途径教导祂，又将知识教导祂，使祂认识通达的道路呢？
With whom did He consult and who instructed Him, And taught Him in the path of justice, And taught Him knowledge, And caused Him to know the way of
understanding?
40:15 万民都像水桶里的一滴，又算如天平上的微尘。看哪，祂举起众海岛，好像极微之物。
Indeed the nations are like a drop from a bucket, And are accounted as specks of dust on the scales. Indeed He takes up the islands as very fine powder.
40:16 利巴嫩的树林不够当柴烧，其中的走兽也不够作燔祭。
And Lebanon is not sufficient to burn, Nor are its beasts sufficient for a burnt offering.
40:17 万民在祂面前好像虚无，被祂算为不及虚无，乃为虚空。
All the nations are as nothing before Him; They are counted by Him as less than nothing and vanity.
40:18 你们究竟将谁比神？用什么形像与神比较呢？
To whom then will you liken God? Or what likeness will you compare to Him?
40:19 偶像由匠人铸造，银匠用金包裹，又为它铸造银链。
When the workman has cast an idol, A goldsmith overlays it with gold Also refining chains of silverfor it.
40:20 穷乏献不起这样供物的，就挑选不能朽坏的树木，为自己寻找巧匠，立起不能摇动的偶像。
He that is so impoverished that he lacks an offering Chooses wood that will not rot, And seeks a skillful craftsman for himself To prepare an idol that will not be
moved.
40:21 你们岂不知道么？你们岂没有听见么？从起初岂没有人告诉你们么？自从立地的根基，你们岂没有明白么？
Do you not know? Have you not heard? Has it not been told to you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth?
40:22 祂坐在地的大圈之上，地上的居民好像蚱蜢；祂铺张诸天如幔子，展开诸天如可住的帐棚；
It is He who sits above the circle of the earth, And its inhabitants are like grasshoppers; Who stretches out the heavens like a curtain, And spreads them out like a
tent to dwell in;
40:23 祂使君王归于虚无，使地上的审判官成为虚空。
Who brings the princes to nought; He makes the judges of the earth as nothing.
40:24 他们是刚才栽上，刚才种上，干也刚才扎根在地里；然而祂一吹在其上，便都枯干，暴风将他们吹去，像碎秸一样。
They have scarcely been planted; They have scarcely been sown; Their stem has scarcely taken root in the earth; Nevertheless He blows on them and they are
withered, And the storm wind carries them away like stubble.
40:25 那圣者说，你们将谁比我，叫他与我相等呢？
To whom will you liken Me, That I should be compared? Says the Holy One.
40:26 你们向高处举目，看谁创造了这万象，按数目将它们领出；祂一一称其名。因祂的权能，又因祂的大能大力，它们连一个都不缺。
Lift up your eyes on high, And see who has created these things, Who brings out their host by number; He calls all of them by name. Through the greatness of His
might and the strength of His power Not one of them is missing.
40:27 雅各阿，你为何说，以色列阿，你为何言，我的道路向耶和华隐藏，我的冤屈被我的神忽略了？
Why do you say, O Jacob, And why do you speak, O Israel, My way is hidden from Jehovah, And my judgment has been passed over by my God?
40:28 你岂不知道么？你岂不曾听见么？永远的神耶和华，创造地极的主，并不疲乏，也不困倦；祂的聪明无法测度。
Do you not know, Or have you not heard, That the eternal God, Jehovah, The Creator of the ends of the earth, Does not faint and does not become weary? There
is no searching out of His understanding.
40:29 疲乏的，祂赐能力；无力的，祂加力量。
He gives power to the faint, And to those who have no vigor He multiplies strength.
40:30 就是少年人也要疲乏困倦，年轻人也必力竭跌倒；
Although youths will faint and become weary, And young men will collapse exhausted;
40:31 但那等候耶和华的必重新得力；他们必如鹰展翅上腾；他们奔跑却不困倦，行走却不疲乏。
Yet those who wait on Jehovah will renew their strength; They will mount up with wings like eagles; They will run and will not faint; They will walk and will not
become weary.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 41 章
41:1 众海岛阿，当静静听我。愿众民重新得力，让他们近前来，然后让他们说话；我们可以一起辩诉。
Listen to Me in silence, O coastlands. Let the people renew their strength; Let them approach, then let them speak; Let us come together for judgment.
41:2 谁从东方兴起一人，凭公义召他来到脚前？耶和华将列国交在他面前，使他管辖君王；用刀砍碎他们如灰尘，用弓射散他们如风吹的碎秸。
Who has stirred up someone from the east, Called him in righteousness to His feet? He gave up the nations before him, And caused him to have dominion over
kings. He gave them to his sword like the dust, Like the driven stubble to his bow.
41:3 他追赶他们，安然前行，走他所未走的路。
He pursues them and passes on in safety, He will not come on a way known to his feet.
41:4 谁行作且成就这事，从起初宣召历代呢？就是我耶和华，我是首先的，也与末后的同在。
Who has wrought this and done this, Calling the generations from the beginning? I, Jehovah, am the first, And with the last, I am He.
41:5 海岛看见就都害怕，地极也都战兢，就近前来。
The coastlands saw it and were afraid; The ends of the earth trembled; They drew near and came.
701
41:6 他们各人帮助邻舍，各人对弟兄说，要刚强。
Each one helps his neighbor, And each one says to his brother, Be strong.
41:7 木匠勉励银匠，用锤打磨金属的勉励打砧的，论焊工说，焊得好；又用钉子钉稳，免得偶像动摇。
So the craftsman encourages the goldsmith, And he who smoothes metal with a hammer encourages him who strikes the anvil, Saying that the soldering is good;
And he fastens it with nails so that it should not be moved.
41:8 惟你以色列我的仆人，雅各我所拣选的，我朋友亚伯拉罕的后裔；
But you, Israel, My servant, Jacob, whom I have chosen, The seed of Abraham My friend;
41:9 你是我从地极紧握领来的，从地角召来的，且对你说，你是我的仆人，我拣选了你，并没有弃绝你。
You whom I have taken from the ends of the earth, And from its extremities have called, And said to you, You are My servant; I have chosen you and have not
cast you away.
41:10 你不要害怕，因为我与你同在；不要惊惶，因为我是你的神。我必坚固你，我必帮助你，我必用我公义的右手扶持你。
Do not be afraid, for I am with you; Do not be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you; surely I will help you; Surely I will uphold you with the right hand
of My righteousness.
41:11 看哪，凡向你发怒的，都必抱愧蒙羞；与你相争的，必如无有，并要灭亡。
Indeed all those who were increased against you Will be ashamed and confounded; The men who strive against you Will be as nothing and will perish.
41:12 与你争竞的，你要找他们也找不着；与你争战的，必成为无有，成为虚无。
You will seek but not find The men who contend with you; The men who war with you Will be as nothing and as without existence.
41:13 因为我是耶和华你的神，我紧握你的右手，对你说，不要害怕，我必帮助你。
For I am Jehovah your God, Who takes hold of your right hand, Who says to you, Do not be afraid; I will help you.
41:14 你这虫雅各，你们稀少的以色列人，不要害怕；耶和华你的救赎主，以色列的圣者说，我必帮助你。
Do not be afraid, you worm Jacob, You few men of Israel; I will help you, declares Jehovah, Even your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel.
41:15 看哪，我必使你成为有快齿打粮的新器具。你要把山岭打得粉碎，使冈陵如同糠秕。
Now I will make you into a sharp threshing instrument, One that is new and possessing teeth. You shall thresh the mountains and make them powder, And you
shall make the hills like chaff.
41:16 你要把这些簸扬，风要卷去，旋风要刮散。你倒要因耶和华欢乐，以以色列的圣者为夸耀。
You shall winnow them, and the wind will carry them away And the storm wind will scatter them. And you will rejoice in Jehovah, You will glory in the Holy One of
Israel.
41:17 困苦穷乏人寻求水却没有，他们因口渴舌头干燥；我耶和华必应允他们，我以色列的神必不离弃他们。
When the poor and needy seek for water, and there is none, And their tongue is dry from thirst, I, Jehovah, will answer them; As the God of Israel I will not forsake
them.
41:18 我要在光秃的高处开江河，在谷中开泉源。我要使旷野变为水池，使干地变为水泉。
I will open up rivers on the bare heights, And in the midst of the valleys, springs. I will make the wilderness into a pool of water, And the dry land into springs of
water.
41:19 我要在旷野种上香柏树、皂荚树、番石榴树和橄榄树；我在沙漠要把松树、杉树、并黄杨树一同栽植；
I will plant in the wilderness the cedar, The acacia, the myrtle, and the olive tree; I will place in the desert the fir tree, The pine tree, and the box tree together;
41:20 好叫人看见、知道、思想、一同明白，这是耶和华的手所作的，是以色列的圣者所造的。
That they may see and know, And consider and understand together, That the hand of Jehovah has done this, And the Holy One of Israel has created it.
41:21 耶和华对假神说，你们要呈上你们的案件；雅各的王说，你们要题出你们的论据。
Present your case, says Jehovah; Bring forward your arguments, says the King of Jacob.
41:22 让他们题出，向我们说明将要发生的事；让他们说明先前的是什么事，好叫我们思索，得知事的结局；或者让我们听见将来的事。
Let them bring forth and declare to us What will take place; Let them show what the former things were, That we may consider them, And may know the end of
them; Or let us hear the things that are coming.
41:23 要说明后来的事，好叫我们知道你们是神；你们或降福或降祸罢，使我们忧急对望，同感惧怕。
Declare to us the things that are coming afterward, That we may know that you are gods; Indeed do good or do evil, That we may look at one another anxiously
and be afraid together.
41:24 看哪，你们属于虚无，你们的作为也属于虚空；那选择你们的是可憎恶的。
You are indeed nothing, And your work is of no consequence; He who chooses you is an abomination.
41:25 我从北方兴起一人，他已经来了；他必从日出之地呼求我的名。他必临到掌权的，好像临到灰泥，仿佛窑匠踹泥一样。
I have raised up one from the north and he has come; From the rising of the sun he will call upon my name. He will come upon rulers as upon mortar, As the
potter treads the clay.
41:26 谁从起初说明这事，使我们知道呢？谁从先前说明，使我们说他不错呢？谁也没有说明，谁也没有给我们听见；谁也没有听见你们的话。
Who has declared it from the beginning that we may know, And in advance that we may say, He is right? Indeed there was no one who declared it; indeed no
one who let us hear; Indeed no one who heard your words.
41:27 我首先对锡安说，看看这些；我要将一位报好信息的赐给耶路撒冷。
Formerly I said to Zion, Here, here they are; And to Jerusalem, I will give someone who preaches glad tidings.
41:28 我看的时候并没有人，他们中间也没有谋士，可以在我问的时候回答一句。
But I looked and there was no man, And from among these there was no counselor, Who, when I asked, would give Me an answer.
41:29 看哪，他们都是虚空，他们的工作乃是虚无；他们所铸的像都是风，都是虚的。
Indeed all of them are vanity; Their works are of no consequence; Their molten images are a wind and a waste.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 42 章
42:1 看哪，我的仆人，我所扶持，我所拣选，我魂所喜悦的；我已将我的灵放在祂身上，祂必将公理宣布与外邦。
Here is My Servant, whom I uphold, My chosen One in whom My soul delights; I have put My Spirit upon Him, And He will bring forth justice to the nations.
42:2 祂不喧嚷，不扬声，也不使街上听见祂的声音。
702
He will not cry out, nor lift up His voice, Nor make His voice heard in the street.
42:3 压伤的芦苇，祂不折断；将残的火把，祂不吹灭；祂要凭真实将公理宣布出去。
A bruised reed He will not break; And a dimly burning flax He will not extinguish; He will bring forth justice in truth.
42:4 祂不灰心，也不丧胆，直到祂在地上设立公理；众海岛都要等候祂的训诲。
He will not faint, nor will He be discouraged, Until He has established justice in the earth; And the coastlands will wait for His instruction.
42:5 创造并铺张诸天，将地和地所出的一并铺开，赐气息给地上的万民，又赐灵给行在其上之人的神耶和华，祂如此说，
Thus says God Jehovah, Who created the heavens and stretched them out, Who spread forth the earth and what springs up from it, Who gives breath to the
people upon it And spirit to those who wal k on it:
42:6 我是耶和华，凭公义召了你；我必紧握你的手，保守你，使你作众民的约，作外邦人的光，
I am Jehovah; I have called You in righteousness; I have held You by the hand; I have kept You and I have given You As a covenant for the people, as a light for
the nations;
42:7 开瞎子的眼，领被囚的出牢狱，领住在黑暗中的出监牢。
To open the eyes of the blind, To bring the prisoner out from the prison, Those who dwell in darkness from the prison house.
42:8 我是耶和华，这是我的名；我必不将我的荣耀归给别神，也不将我的赞美归给偶像。
I am Jehovah, that is My name, And I will not give My glory to another, Nor My praise to idols.
42:9 看哪，先前的事已经成就，现在我将新事说明；这些事还未发生，我就说给你们听。
Indeed, the former things have come to pass, And new things I am telling you; Before they spring forth I will let you hear them.
42:10 航海的和海中所充满的，众海岛和其上的居民，你们都当向耶和华唱新歌，从地极赞美祂。
Sing a new song to Jehovah; Sing His praise from the end of the earth; You who go down to the sea and all that fills it, You coastlands and their inhabitants.
42:11 旷野和其中的城邑，并基达人居住的村庄，都当扬声；西拉的居民当欢呼，在山顶上呐喊。
Let the wilderness and its cities, The villages which Kedar inhabits, lift up their voices; Let the inhabitants of Sela sing for joy; Let them shout from the tops of the
mountains.
42:12 他们当将荣耀归给耶和华，在众海岛传扬对祂的赞美。
Let them give glory to Jehovah, And declare His praise in the coastlands.
42:13 耶和华必像勇士出去，必像战士激动祂的妒忌；祂要喊叫，大声呐喊，要胜过祂的众仇敌。
Jehovah will go forth as a mighty man, Like a man of war He will stir up His jealousy; He will raise a war cry; He will even roar. He will prevail over His enemies.
42:14 我许久静默不言，忍住不语；现在我要喊叫像产难的妇人，我要急气而喘哮。
For a long time I have been silent; I have kept still, I have restrained Myself. Now I will cry like a woman in travail; I will gasp and pant at the same time.
42:15 我要使大小山冈变为荒场，使其上的花草都枯干；我要使江河变为洲岛，使水池都干涸。
I will lay waste the mountains and hills, And all of their vegetation I will dry up; And I will make the rivers into islands; I will dry up the pools.
42:16 我要引瞎子行不认识的道路，领他们走不知道的途径；我要在他们面前使黑暗变为光明，使弯曲变为平直；这些事我都要为他们行，并不离弃他们。
I will bring the blind on a way they do not know; I will guide them in paths they do not know; I will make the darkness into light before them, And crooked things
straight. These are the things I will do for them and will not forsake them.
42:17 倚靠雕制的偶像，对铸造的偶像说，你是我们的神，这等人必退后，全然蒙羞。
They who have turned back will be utterly put to shame, That is, those who trust in grave images, Those who say to molten images, You are our gods.
42:18 你们这耳聋的，听罢；你们这眼瞎的，看罢，使你们看得见。
You who are deaf, Hear; And you who are blind, Look, that you may see.
42:19 除了我的仆人，有谁眼瞎呢？谁耳聋像我差遣的使者呢？谁眼瞎像那与我和好的，谁眼瞎像耶和华的仆人呢？
Who is blind except My servant, And as deaf as My messenger, whom I will send? Who is as blind as the one at peace with Me, And as blind as the servant of
Jehovah?
42:20 你看见许多事，却不遵守；他的耳朵开通，却不听见。
You have seen many things and do not observe them; His ears are open, but he does not hear.
42:21 耶和华因自己公义的缘故就喜悦；祂要使律法为大、为尊。
Jehovah is well pleased for His righteousness' sake; He will magnify the law and make it honorable.
42:22 但这百姓是被抢夺、被掳掠的，都牢笼在坑中，隐藏在狱里；他们成了被抢夺之物，无人拯救，成了被掳掠之物，无人说交还。
But this is a people plundered and spoiled: All of them are trapped in holes, And they are hidden in prison houses; They have become plunder, and there is no
one to deliver; They have become spoil, and there is no one to say, Restore them.
42:23 你们中间谁肯侧耳听这话？谁肯留心听要来的事？
Who among you will give ear to this? Who will pay attention and listen to the coming things?
42:24 谁曾将雅各交给掳掠的，将以色列交给抢夺的呢？岂不是耶和华，就是我们所得罪的那位么？他们不肯遵行祂的道路，不听从祂的训诲；
Who gave Jacob to the plunderers, And Israel to the robbers? Was it not Jehovah, against whom we have sinned, And in whose ways they were not willing to
walk, And whose law they would not obey?
42:25 所以祂将猛烈的怒气和争战的勇力，倾倒在他们身上；使他们四围如火焰着起，他们还不知道；烧着他们，他们也不介意。
Therefore He poured out upon them the heat of His anger And the strength of battle; And set them on fire round about, yet they did not realize it; And He burned
against them and they did not take it to heart.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 43 章
43:1 雅各阿，创造你的耶和华如此说，以色列阿，塑造你的那位现在如此说，你不要害怕，因为我救赎了你；我曾题你的名召你，你是属我的。
But now thus says Jehovah Who created you, O Jacob, and who formed you, O Israel: Do not fear, because I have redeemed you; I have called you by your name;
you are Mine.
43:2 你从水中经过，我必与你同在；你飏过江河，水必不漫过你。你从火中行过，必不被烧，火焰必不烧着你。
When you pass through the waters, I will be with you, And through the rivers, they will not flow over you. And when you walk through the fire, you will not be
burned, And the flame will not consume you.
43:3 因为我是耶和华你的神，是以色列的圣者你的救主；我已经使埃及作你的赎价，使古实和西巴代替你。
703
Because I am Jehovah your God, The Holy One of Israel, your Savior, I have given Egypt as your ransom, Cush and Seba instead of you.
43:4 因你在我眼中为宝为尊，又因我爱了你，所以我使人代替你，使列邦人替换你的性命。
Since you were precious in My eyes, Since you have been honorable and I have loved you, I will give up men in your place, And peoples in exchange for your life.
43:5 不要害怕，因我与你同在；我必领你的后裔从东方来，又从西方招聚你。
Do not fear, because I am with you; I will bring your seed from the east, And gather you from the west.
43:6 我要对北方说，交出来；对南方说，不要拘留。要将我的众子从远方带来，将我的众女从地极领来，
I will say to the north, Give them up, And to the south, Do not keep them back. Bring My sons from afar, And My daughters from the end of the earth,
43:7 就是凡称为我名下的人，是我为自己的荣耀所创造、所塑造的，更是我所造作的。
Everyone who is called by My name, Whom I have created, formed, and even made for My glory.
43:8 你要将有眼而瞎、有耳而聋的民都带出来。
Bring out the people who are blind yet have eyes, And those who are deaf yet have ears.
43:9 任凭万国聚集，任凭众民会合；其中谁能将这说明，并将先前的事说给我们听？他们可以带出见证人来，好得称为义，或者他们听见便说，这是真的。
Let all the nations be gathered together, And let the peoples assemble. Who among them can declare this And relate to us the former things? Let them bring forth
their witnesses, that they may be justified, And let them hear and say, It is true.
43:10 耶和华说，你们是我的见证人，是我的仆人，我所拣选的，为要使你们认识并相信我，又明白我就是耶和华。在我以前没有神存在，在我以后也必
没有。
You are My witnesses, declares Jehovah, And My servant whom I have chosen, In order that you may know and believe Me And understand that I am He. Before
Me there was no God formed, Neither will there be any after Me.
43:11 惟有我是耶和华，除我以外没有救主。
I, even I, am Jehovah; And there is no Savior besides Me.
43:12 我曾指示，我曾拯救，我曾说给他们听；在你们中间没有别神。耶和华说，你们是我的见证人，我是神。
I have declared, and I have saved, and I have let them hear; There is no strange god among you. And you are My witnesses, declares Jehovah, And I am God.
43:13 在有日子以前，我就是神，谁也不能救人脱离我的手。我行事，谁能扭转呢？
Indeed, before the day was, I am He, And there is no one who can deliver from My hand. I will work and who will reverse it?
43:14 耶和华你们的救赎主，以色列的圣者如此说，因你们的缘故，我已经打发人到巴比伦去，并且我要使他们迦勒底众人，如逃民下来，他们的欢乐原
在于他们的船只。
Thus says Jehovah, Your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel, For your sake I have sent to Babylon, And I will bring down all of them as fugitives, Even the Chaldeans,
whose rejoicing is in the ships.
43:15 我是耶和华你们的圣者，是创造以色列的，是你们的王。
I am Jehovah, your Holy One, The Creator of Israel, your King.
43:16 耶和华在海中开道路，在大水中开路径，
Thus says Jehovah, Who has made a way in the sea, And a path in the mighty waters,
43:17 使车辆、马匹、军兵、勇士都一同出来；他们躺下不再起来，灭没好像火把熄灭。
Who brings forth the chariot and the horse, The army and the powerful together. They will lie down, they will not rise; They are extinct, they are quenched like flax.
43:18 耶和华如此说，你们不要记念从前的事，也不要思想古时的事。
Do not call to mind the former things, Nor consider the things of old.
43:19 看哪，我要作一件新事，如今要发生；你们岂不知道么？我甚至要在旷野开道路，在沙漠开江河。
Indeed, I am doing a new thing; It will now spring forth; Do you not know it? I will even make a way in the wilderness, Rivers in the desert.
43:20 野地的走兽必尊重我，野狗和鸵鸟也必如此，因我使旷野有水，使沙漠有河，好赐给我的百姓我的选民喝。
The animals of the field will honor Me, The jackals and the ostriches, Because I have given them water in the wilderness, Rivers in the desert, To give a drink to My
people, My chosen ones.
43:21 这百姓是我为自己塑造的；他们必述说对我的赞美。
This people I have formed for Myself; They will show forth My praise.
43:22 雅各阿，你并没有呼求我，以色列阿，你倒厌烦我。
But you have not called upon Me, O Jacob, But you have grown weary of Me, O Israel.
43:23 你没有将羊带来给我作你的燔祭，也没有用你的祭物尊敬我；我没有使你献素祭为我服劳，也没有要你献乳香使你厌倦。
You have not brought Me a sheep for your burnt offerings, And you have not honored Me with your sacrifices; I have not made you serve Me with a meal offering,
Nor wearied you with incense.
43:24 你没有用银子为我买菖蒲，也没有用祭牲的脂油使我饱足；倒使我因你的罪服劳，使我因你的罪孽厌倦。
You did not buy calamus for Me with money, And you did not fill Me with the fat of your sacrifices. Indeed, you have burdened Me with your sins; You have
wearied Me with your iniquities.
43:25 惟有我为自己的缘故涂抹你的过犯，也不记念你的罪。
I, even I, am He who wipes away your transgressions for My own sake, And I will not remember your sins.
43:26 你要题醒我，你我可以一同辩诉；你可以将你的理陈明，使你得称义。
Put Me in remembrance; let us plead in judgment together: Declare your case that you may be justified.
43:27 你的始祖犯罪，你的中保违背我。
Your first father sinned, And your mediators transgressed against Me.
43:28 所以我辱没圣所的首领，使雅各遭毁灭，使以色列被辱骂。
Therefore I profaned the princes of the sanctuary, And I delivered up Jacob to destruction, And Israel to reviling.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 44 章
44:1 我的仆人雅各，我所拣选的以色列阿，现在你当听。
But now hear, O Jacob, My servant, And Israel, whom I have chosen.
44:2 造作你，又从母腹里就塑造你，并要帮助你的耶和华如此说，我的仆人雅各，我所拣选的耶书仑哪，不要害怕；
704
Thus says Jehovah your Maker And the One who formed you from the womb, who will help you, Do not fear, O Jacob, My servant, And Jeshurun whom I have
chosen,
44:3 因为我要将水浇灌干渴之处，将河浇灌干旱之地；我要将我的灵浇灌你的后裔，将我的福浇灌你的子孙。
For I will pour water upon the thirsty land, And streams upon the dry ground; I will pour out My Spirit upon your seed, And My blessing upon your offspring.
44:4 他们要在草中长起，像溪水旁的柳树。
They will spring up among the grass, Like poplars beside the flowing streams of water.
44:5 这个要说，我是属耶和华的；那个要以雅各的名自称；又一个要亲手写，我是属耶和华的，并要以以色列这名自称。
One will say, I am Jehovah's; Another will call himself by the name of Jacob; Another will write with his hand, I am Jehovah's; He will name himself with the name
Israel.
44:6 耶和华以色列的王，以色列的救赎主万军之耶和华如此说，我是首先的，我是末后的，除我以外再没有神。
Thus says Jehovah the King of Israel, And his Redeemer, Jehovah of hosts, I am the First and I am the Last, And apart from Me there is no God.
44:7 自从我设立古时的民，谁能像我这样宣告？让他表明，并依次向我陈说。让他们将要来的事和必成的事说明。
And who can proclaim as I can? Then let him declare it and recount it in order for Me, Since I set forth the people of ancient times. Let them declare to them both
the coming things And the things which will take place.
44:8 你们不要恐惧，也不要害怕。我岂不是从上古就说给你们听，指示了你们么？并且你们是我的见证人。除我以外，岂有神么？岂有别的磐石么？我不
知道有那一个。
Do not tremble and do not be afraid. Have I not related to you from that time and declared it? And you are My witnesses. Is there a God besides Me? Or is there
any other Rock? I do not know of any.
44:9 雕制偶像的，尽都虚空；他们所喜悦的，都无益处；他们的见证人无所看见，无所知晓，他们便觉羞愧。
All those who make idols are a waste. And the things they delight in will not profit them. And those who are witnesses for them do not see, And they do not know,
that they may be put to shame.
44:10 谁制造神像，铸造无益的偶像？
Who has formed a god or cast an idol That is of no profit?
44:11 看哪，偶像的同伙都必羞愧，因为工匠不过是人。任他们众人聚会，任他们站立，任他们惧怕，一同羞愧。
Indeed, all those joined to him will be put to shame, For the craftsmen are only men. Let all of them be gathered together, let them stand up; Let them be afraid
and be put to shame together.
44:12 铁匠磨利切割的工具，在火炭中操作，用锤打造偶像，用他有力的膀臂制作；但他也会饥饿无力，不喝水就发倦。
The ironsmith sharpens a cutting tool, And works over the coals, And forms the idol with hammers, And he works it with the strength of his arm. Yet he becomes
hungry and has no strength; If he does not drink water, he faints.
44:13 木匠拉线，用笔画出样子；用刨子刨成形状，用圆尺画了模样；他仿照人的样式、人的俊美，将偶像造作而成，好住在房屋中。
The carpenter stretches out a line; He marks it out with a marking tool; He works it with planes, And marks it with a compass. He makes it according to the
likeness of a man, Like the beautiful appearance of man, to dwell in a house.
44:14 有人预备为自己砍伐香柏树，或取柏树和橡树；他让树在树林中长得茁壮；他栽种白杨树，得雨水滋养。
Someone prepares to cut down cedars for himself, Or he takes a cypress or an oak; He lets it grow strong among the trees of the forest; He plants an ash, and
the rain nourishes it.
44:15 这树，人可用以烧火；他自己取些烤火，又烧着烤饼；而且作神像跪拜，作雕制的偶像向它叩拜。
It is also something for a man to burn; He takes one of them and warms himself; He even kindles a fire and bakes bread. With the same he also makes a god
and worships it; He makes it into a graven image and bows down before it.
44:16 他把一半烧在火中，用这一半烤肉吃，烤了肉，也吃饱了；又自己烤火，说，阿哈，我暖和了，我见火了。
Half of it he burns in a fire; Over this half he eats flesh, And he roasts a roast and is satisfied. He also warms himself and says, Ha! I am warm, I have seen fire.
44:17 他用剩下的作了一个神像，就是雕制的偶像；他向这偶像俯伏叩拜，祷告它说，求你拯救我，因你是我的神。
The rest of it he makes into a god, into his idol; He bows down to it and worships it And prays to it and says, Deliver me, for you are my god.
44:18 他们不知道，也不明白，因为耶和华遮住他们的眼，叫他们不能看见，塞住他们的心，叫他们不能明白。
They do not know, and they do not understand, For He has covered their eyes so that they cannot see, And their minds so that they cannot understand.
44:19 没有人心里醒悟，也没有人有知识或聪明，说，我曾把一半在火中烧了，在炭火上烤过饼；我也烤过肉吃。这剩下的，我岂要作成可憎的物么？我
岂可向木块叩拜呢？
And no one considers in his heart, And there is no knowledge or understanding to say, I have burned half of it in the fire, And I have even baked bread over its
coals; I have roasted flesh and eaten it. Then shall I make the rest of it into an abomination? Shall I fall down before a block of wood?
44:20 他以灰为食；他的心被迷惑，使他偏离正路；他不能救自己的魂；也不能说，我右手中岂不是有虚谎么？
He feeds on ashes; A deceived heart has led him astray; And he cannot deliver his soul; Nor does he say, Is this not a lie in my right hand?
44:21 雅各、以色列阿，要记念这些事，因你是我的仆人。我塑造了你，你是我的仆人；以色列阿，你必不会被我忘记。
Remember these things, O Jacob, And Israel, for you are My servant. I have formed you; you are My servant; O Israel, you will not be forgotten by Me.
44:22 我涂抹了你的过犯，像厚云消散；我涂抹了你的罪，如薄云灭没。你当归向我，因我救赎了你。
I have wiped away, like a thick cloud, your transgressions, And like a cloud, your sins. Return unto Me, for I have redeemed you.
44:23 诸天哪，应当欢唱，因为耶和华作成这事。地的低下之处阿，应当欢呼；众山哪，应当发声欢唱，树林和其中所有的树，都当如此；因为耶和华救
赎了雅各，并要因以色列得荣耀。
Sing for joy, O heavens, for Jehovah has accomplished it. Shout, O lower parts of the earth; Break forth with singing, O mountains, The forest and every tree in it;
For Jehovah has redeemed Jacob And is glorified in Israel.
44:24 那救赎你，从母腹中就塑造你的耶和华如此说，我是造作万物的耶和华，是独自铺张诸天、铺开大地的；(那时谁与我同在呢？)
Thus says Jehovah who redeemed you And formed you from the womb, I am Jehovah who makes all things, Who alone stretches out the heavens, Who spread
out the earth (Who was with Me?);
44:25 我使说假话的兆头失效，使占卜的变成愚妄，使智慧人退后，使他们的知识变为愚拙；
Who frustrates the signs of liars, And makes fools of the diviners; Who turns back the wise men, And makes their knowledge foolish;
44:26 使我仆人的话语立定，我使者的谋算成就；论到耶路撒冷说，必有人居住；论到犹大的城邑说，必被建造，其中的荒场我也必兴起；
Who confirms the word of His servant, And fulfills the counsel of His messengers; Who says to Jerusalem, She will be inhabited, And to the cities of Judah, They
will be built, And I will raise up their ruins;
705
44:27 对深渊说，你干了罢，我也要使你的江河干涸；
Who says to the depths, Be dried up, And I will dry up your rivers;
44:28 论古列说，他是我的牧人，必成就我所喜悦的一切，就是论到耶路撒冷说，她必被建造，论到圣殿说，她的根基必立稳。
Who says to Cyrus, He is My shepherd, And he will fulfill all My desire, Even by saying of Jerusalem, She will be built, And of the temple, Her foundations will be
laid.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 45 章
45:1 我耶和华所膏的古列，我紧握他的右手，使列国降伏在他面前；我也要放松列王的腰带，使门户在他面前敞开，使城门不得关闭；我对他如此说，
Thus says Jehovah to His anointed, To Cyrus, whose right hand I have grasped, To subdue the nations before him; And I will loosen the loins of kings; To open
before him double doors So that the gates will not be shut:
45:2 我必在你前面行，修平崎岖之地；我必打破铜门，砍断铁闩，
I will go before you And make level the rough places; I will shatter the doors of brass And cut through the bars of iron,
45:3 将暗中的宝物和隐密处的财宝赐给你，使你知道我是题你名召你的耶和华，以色列的神。
And give to you the treasures of darkness And the hidden riches of secret places, That you may know that I am Jehovah, who calls you by your name, The God of
Israel.
45:4 为我仆人雅各，我所拣选以色列的缘故，我题名召了你；你虽不认识我，我却加给你名号。
For the sake of My servant, Jacob, And Israel, My chosen one, I have also called you by your name; I have surnamed you, although you do not know Me.
45:5 我是耶和华，再没有别神；除了我以外没有神；你虽不认识我，我却给你束腰；
I am Jehovah and there is no one else; Besides Me there is no God; I girded you, although you do not know Me;
45:6 从日出之地到日落之处，使人都知道，除了我以外没有别神。我是耶和华，再没有别神；
That they might know from the rising of the sun and from the west That there is no one besides Me. I am Jehovah and there is no one else;
45:7 我是那形成光，又创造暗，造作平安，又创造灾祸的；我是那造作这一切的耶和华。
He who forms the light and creates darkness, He who makes peace and creates evil, I am Jehovah who makes all these things.
45:8 诸天哪，要从上头滴落，愿云彩降下公义；愿地开裂，产出救恩和公义，愿二者一同生发；这是我耶和华所创造的。
Drip down, O heavens, from above, And let the clouds flow down righteousness; Let the earth open And bring forth salvation and righteousness; Let them spring
forth together; I, Jehovah, have created it.
45:9 祸哉，那与塑造他者争论的，他不过是地上瓦片中的一块瓦片。泥土岂可对抟弄它的说，你在造作什么？所作的物岂可说，他没有手？
Woe to him who strives with the One who formed him-The shards among the shards of earthenware. Shall the clay say to the One who forms it, What are You
making? And your work say, He has no hands?
45:10 祸哉，那对父亲说，你生的是什么？或对母亲说，你产的是什么？
Woe to him who says to his father, What are you begetting? Or to a woman, What are you bringing forth?
45:11 耶和华以色列的圣者，就是那塑造以色列的，如此说，关于我众子将来的事，你们可以问我；关于我手的工作，你们可以吩咐我。
Thus says Jehovah, The Holy One of Israel and the One who formed him, Ask Me about the things to come concerning My sons, And concerning the work of My
hands, command Me.
45:12 我造作地，又创造人在地上；我亲手铺张诸天，天上的万象也是我所命定的。
I have made the earth, And created man upon it; My own hands stretched out the heavens, And I commanded all of their host.
45:13 我凭公义兴起古列，又要修直他的一切道路；他必建造我的城，遣回我被掳的民，不是为工价，也不是为赏赐；这是万军之耶和华说的。
I raised him up in righteousness, And will make straight all his ways; He will build My city, And send away My captives, Neither for a price nor for a reward, Says
Jehovah of hosts.
45:14 耶和华如此说，埃及劳碌得来的，和古实的货物必归你，身量高大的西巴人必过来归你，也要属你。他们必随从你；他们必带着锁炼过来，又向你
下拜，祈求你说，神真在你们中间，再没有别神，没有别的神。
Thus says Jehovah, The wealth of Egypt, and the merchandise of Cush, And the Sabeans, men of stature, Will pass to you and will be yours. They will walk behind
you; they will come over in chains And bow down to you and petition you, saying, Surely God is with you, and there is no one else; There is no other God.
45:15 救主以色列的神阿，你实在是自隐的神。
Surely You are a God who hides Himself, O God of Israel, the Savior.
45:16 凡制造偶像的，都必抱愧蒙羞，都要一同归于惭愧。
All of them will be ashamed and even confounded; Those who make idols go in confusion together.
45:17 惟有以色列已蒙耶和华的拯救，得永远的救恩；你们必不蒙羞，也不抱愧，直到永永远远。
Israel has been saved by Jehovah With an eternal salvation; You will not be ashamed or confounded Forever and ever.
45:18 创造诸天的耶和华，就是那塑造并造作地的神；祂使地坚立；祂创造地，并非使其荒废，祂塑造地，是要给人居住；祂如此说，我是耶和华，再没
有别神；
For thus says Jehovah, Who created the heavens-He is the God Who formed the earth and made it; He established it; He did not create it waste, But He formed it
to be inhabited: I am Jehovah and there is no one else;
45:19 我没有在隐密中、在地的黑暗之处说话；我没有对雅各的后裔说，你们寻求我是徒然的。我耶和华所讲说的是公义，所宣扬的是正直。
I have not spoken in secret, In a dark place of the earth; I did not say to the seed of Jacob, Seek Me in vain. I, Jehovah, speak righteousness, Declaring things that
are right.
45:20 你们从列国逃脱的人，要聚集而来，一同近前来。那些抬着雕刻木偶，向不能施拯救之神祷告的，毫无知识。
Gather yourselves together and come; Draw near together, You who have escaped from the nations. Those who set up their wooden idol And pray unto a god
who cannot save Have no knowledge.
45:21 你们要说明并题出你们的理；让他们彼此商议罢。谁从古时将这事说给人听？谁从起初说明这事？不是我耶和华么？除了我以外，再没有神；我是
公义的神，又是救主，除了我以外没有神。
Declare and present your case; Indeed, let them take counsel together. Who related this long ago; Who declared it from that time? Was it not I, Jehovah? And
there is no other God besides Me; A righteous God and Savior, And there is no one except Me.
45:22 地极的人都当转向我，就必得救，因为我是神，再没有别神。
706
Turn to Me and be saved, All the ends of the earth, For I am God and there is no one else.
45:23 我指着自己起誓，我口所出的话是凭公义，并不返回，万膝必向我跪拜，万口必凭我起誓。
I have sworn by Myself; A word has gone out of My mouth in righteousness And will not return, That every knee shall bow to Me, And every tongue shall swear.
45:24 人必论到我说，公义和能力惟独在于耶和华；人必到祂这里来，凡向祂发怒的，必致蒙羞。
It shall be said of Me, Only in Jehovah Is there righteousness and strength. To Him shall men come, And all those who are burning in anger against Him shall be
ashamed.
45:25 以色列的后裔都必因耶和华得称为义，并要夸耀。
In Jehovah all the seed of Israel Shall be justified and shall glory.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 46 章
46:1 彼勒屈身，尼波弯腰；巴比伦的偶像驮在走兽和牲畜上；你们所抬的如今成了重驮，成了使牲畜疲乏的负担。
Bel has bowed down; Nebo stoops; Their idols are on beasts and cattle; The things which you carry are a burden, A load for a weary beast.
46:2 这些都一同弯腰屈身，不能保全重驮，自己倒被掳去。
They stoop and have bowed down together; They are not able to escape the burden; But they themselves have gone into captivity.
46:3 雅各家、以色列家一切余剩的，要听我言，你们从出生就蒙我保抱，从母腹便蒙我怀搋。
Listen to Me, O house of Jacob, And all the remnant of the house of Israel, You who have been borne from birth, Who have been carried from the womb,
46:4 直到你们年老，我仍这样；直到你们发白，我仍怀抱。我已造作，也必怀搋；我必怀抱，也必拯救。
Even unto old age, I am He; Even unto your gray-haired years, I will bear you. I have made and I will carry, And I will bear and deliver.
46:5 你们将谁与我相比，使谁与我同等，可以与我比较，使我们相同呢？
To whom will you liken Me, And with whom will you make Me equal And compare Me, that we should be considered alike?
46:6 那从囊中倒出金子，用天平称银子的人，雇金匠将金银制造成神像，他们又俯伏，又叩拜；
Those who lavish gold from the purse And weigh silver in scales And hire a goldsmith, and he makes a god-They bow down and even worship it;
46:7 他们将神像抬起，扛在肩上，安置在定处，使它站立，不离本位；即使有人呼求它，它也不能答应，也不能救人脱离急难。
They lift it up on their shoulder; they carry it And set it in its place and stand it up. It will not move from its place; Someone even cries out to it, and it does not
answer, Nor save him from his distress.
46:8 你们当想念这事，并站立得稳；悖逆的人哪，要心里回想。
Remember this and stand fast; Put this in your heart, O transgressors.
46:9 你们要追念上古起头的事，因为我是神，再没有别神；我是神，没有像我的；
Remember the former things of old, That I am God and there is no one else; I am God and there is no one like Me,
46:10 我从起初指明末后的事，从古时言明未成的事，说，我的筹算必立定，凡我所喜悦的，我必成就；
Who declares the end from the beginning And things which have not been done from ancient times, Saying, My counsel will stand, And all My desire I will
accomplish;
46:11 我召鸷鸟从东方来，召那成就我筹算的人从远方来。我已说出，也必成就；我已谋定，也必作成。
Who calls for a bird of prey from the east, And from a distant land a man to be His counselor. Indeed, I have spoken; surely I will bring it to pass. I have purposed;
surely I will do it.
46:12 你们这些心中顽梗，远离公义的，当听我言。
Listen to Me, O hardhearted ones, Who are far from righteousness.
46:13 我使我的公义临近，必不远离；我的救恩必不迟延；我要在锡安施行救恩，将我的荣耀赐给以色列。
I will bring My righteousness near-it is not far off; And My salvation will not delay; And I will give salvation in Zion, And to Israel My glory.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 47 章
47:1 巴比伦的处女阿，下来坐在尘埃；迦勒底的女子阿，没有宝座了，要坐在地上，因为你不再称为柔弱娇嫩的。
Come down and sit in the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon; Sit on the ground where there is no throne, O daughter of the Chaldeans; For you will no longer be
called Tender and delicate.
47:2 要用磨磨面；揭去帕子，脱去长衣，露现大腿，渡过江河。
Take millstones and grind meal; Remove your veil; Strip off your flowing skirt; uncover your thigh; Cross over the rivers.
47:3 你的下体必被露出，你的羞耻必被看见；我要报仇，谁也不宽容。
Your nakedness will be uncovered; Your shame will also be seen; I will take vengeance and will not spare any man.
47:4 我们的救赎主是以色列的圣者，万军之耶和华是祂的名。
Our Redeemer, Jehovah of hosts is His name, The Holy One of Israel.
47:5 迦勒底的女子阿，你要默然静坐，进入暗中；因为你不再称为列国的王后。
Sit in silence and go in darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans; For you will no longer be called The queen of kingdoms.
47:6 我曾向我的百姓发怒，使我的产业被亵渎，将他们交在你手中。你毫不怜恤他们，把极重的轭加在老年人身上。
I was angry with My people; I profaned My inheritance, And I have delivered them up into your hand. You have not shown any mercy to them; You have made
your yoke Very heavy upon the elderly.
47:7 你曾说，我必永为王后；你不将这些事放在心上，也不思想事情的终局。
You have said, I will be A queen forever; You did not put these things into your heart; You did not remember the end of them.
47:8 你这专好宴乐、安然居住的，现在当听这话。你心中说，惟有我，除我以外再没有别的；我必不至寡居，也不遭丧子之事。
And now hear this, O lover of pleasure, Who dwells securely And says in your heart, I am, and there is none besides me; I will not dwell as a widow, And I will not
know loss of children.
47:9 那知丧子和寡居这两件事，在一日转眼之间必临到你；虽然你多行邪术，虽然你竭力施咒，这两件事必全然临到你身上。
707
But these two things will come upon you Suddenly, in one day: Loss of children and widowhood; In full measure they will come upon you In spite of the multitude
of your sorceries; In spite of the great power of your spells.
47:10 你素来倚仗自己的恶行，说，无人看见我。你的智慧和知识使你偏邪，并且你心里说，惟有我，除我以外再没有别的。
And you felt secure in your wickedness; You said, No one sees me. Your wisdom and your knowledge Have seduced you, And you said in your heart, I am, and
there is none besides me.
47:11 但祸患必临到你身，你不知它的由来；灾害必落在你身上，你不能藉遮罪而除掉；所不知道的毁灭，必忽然临到你身。
But evil will come upon you, And you will not know its origin; Disaster will fall upon you Which you cannot propitiate for; Desolation will come upon you suddenly,
About which you do not know.
47:12 站起来罢，用你从幼年劳碌施行的符咒，和你许多的邪术，或者可得益处，或者会使人惊恐。
Stand now with your enchantments And the multitude of your sorceries, With which you have labored from your youth; Perhaps you can profit; Perhaps you will
inspire terror.
47:13 你筹画太多，以致疲倦。让那些观天象的，就是看星宿、逢月朔说预言的，都站起来，救你脱离所要临到你的事。
You are wearied with the multitude of your counsels. Let the astrologers, who gaze at the stars, Who predict according to the new moons, Stand up and save you
from what is coming upon you.
47:14 他们要像碎秸被火焚烧，不能救自己脱离火焰之力；这火并非可以取暖的炭火，也不是可以坐在其前的火光。
Indeed, they are like stubble; Fire consumes them; They cannot deliver themselves From the power of the flame; There is no coal for warming themselves, Nor the
light of a fire to sit before.
47:15 与你一同劳碌的，都要这样与你无益；从幼年与你贸易的，都各往各方飘流，无人救你。
So will those with whom you have labored be to you, Those who have traded with you from your youth; Each one will wander off in his own direction; There will
be no one to save you.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 48 章
48:1 雅各家，名称为以色列，从犹大水源出来的，当听这话；你们指着耶和华的名起誓，题说以色列的神，却不凭真实，不凭公义。
Hear this, O house of Jacob, Who are called by the name of Israel; And who came out from the waters of Judah, Who swear by the name of Jehovah And make
mention of the God of Israel, But not in truth nor in righteousness.
48:2 你们自称为圣城的人，所信靠的是以色列的神；万军之耶和华是祂的名。
For they call themselves after the holy city And lean upon the God of Israel; Jehovah of hosts is His name.
48:3 主说，早先的事我从起初说明，已经出了我的口，也叫人听见了；我忽然行作，事便成就。
I have declared the former things from the beginning; And they went out from My mouth, and I let them hear them; I did them suddenly, and they came to pass.
48:4 因为我素来知道你是顽梗的，你的颈项是铁筋，你的额是铜的；
Because I knew that you are obstinate, And your neck is an iron sinew, And your forehead brass;
48:5 所以我从古时给你说明，在未成以先就说给你听；免得你说，这些事是我的偶像所行的，是我雕制的偶像和我铸造的偶像所命定的。
Therefore I declared them to you long ago; Before things came to pass I let you hear; Lest you should say, My idol has done them, And my graven image and my
molten image commanded them.
48:6 你已经听见，现在要看见这一切。你不说明么？从今以后，我要将新事和你所不知道的隐密事，说给你听。
You have heard; look at all this. And will you not declare it? From this time I will let you hear new things And hidden things which you have not known.
48:7 这些事是现今创造的，并非从古就有；在今日以先，你甚至未曾听见；免得你说，我早已知道了。
They have been created now, and not long ago; And before this day you have not even heard them; Lest you should say, Indeed, I knew them.
48:8 你未曾听见，未曾知道，你的耳朵从起初也未曾开通；我原知道你行事极其诡诈，你从母腹里便称为悖逆的。
You also have not heard and have not known; Your ears were not even open from that time; For I knew that you would deal very treacherously And would be
called a transgressor from the womb.
48:9 我为我名的缘故，暂且忍怒，为我所当得的赞美，向你容忍，不将你剪除。
For My name's sake I will defer My anger, And for the sake of My praise I will restrain it for you, In order not to cut you off.
48:10 看哪，我熬炼你，却不像熬炼银子；你在苦难的炉中，我试炼你。
Indeed, I have refined you but not like silver; I have tried you in the furnace of affliction.
48:11 我为自己的缘故，为自己的缘故，必行这事，我的名焉能被亵渎？我必不将我的荣耀归给别神。
For My own sake, yes, for My own sake, I will do it, For how can My name be profaned? And I will not give My glory to another.
48:12 雅各，我所呼召的以色列阿，当听我言；我是耶和华；我是首先的，也是末后的。
Listen to Me, O Jacob, And Israel, whom I called; I am He; I am the First, I am also the Last.
48:13 我亲手立了地的根基，我的右手铺张了诸天；我一召唤，天地便都立住。
Indeed, My hand laid the foundations of the earth, And My right hand spread out the heavens; When I call to them, They stand together.
48:14 你们都当聚集而听！这些偶像中，谁曾说明这些事？耶和华所爱的人，必向巴比伦行祂所喜悦的，祂的膀臂也要加在迦勒底人身上。
Assemble yourselves, all of you, and hear! Who among them has declared these things? Jehovah loves him; he will do His pleasure On Babylon, and His arm will
be upon the Chaldeans.
48:15 惟有我曾说过；我又呼召了他；我领他来，他的道路就必亨通。
I, even I, have spoken; indeed, I have called him; I have brought him, and his way will prosper.
48:16 你们要就近我来听这话：我从起头并未曾在隐密中说话；自从有这事，我就在那里。现在主耶和华差遣我和祂的灵来。
Draw near to Me and listen to this: From the beginning I have not spoken in secret; From the time it took place, I was there. And now the Lord Jehovah Has sent
me and His Spirit.
48:17 耶和华你的救赎主，以色列的圣者如此说，我是耶和华你的神，教训你作有益的事，引导你所当行的路。
Thus says Jehovah, your Redeemer, The Holy One of Israel, I am Jehovah your God, Who teaches you to do that which is profitable, Who leads you in the way that
you should go.
48:18 甚愿你素来听从我的命令！你的平安就必如河水，你的公义就必如海浪。
If only you had hearkened to My commandments! Then your peace would have been like a river, And your righteousness like the waves of the sea,
708
48:19 你的后裔也必多如海沙，你腹中所生的也必多如沙粒；他的名在我面前必不剪除，也不灭绝。
And your seed would have been like the sand, And the offspring of your bowels like the gravel; His name would not have been cut off Or destroyed before Me.
48:20 你们要从巴比伦出来，从迦勒底人中逃脱；要以欢呼的声音传扬，叫他们听见；要将这话宣扬到地极，说，耶和华救赎了祂的仆人雅各。
Come out from Babylon; Flee from the Chaldeans; With a voice of shouting declare; Let them hear this, Send it out unto the end of the earth; Say, Jehovah has
redeemed His servant Jacob.
48:21 耶和华引导他们经过干旱之地，他们并不干渴；祂为他们使水从磐石而流；祂分裂磐石，水就涌出。
And they did not thirst When He led them through the dry places; He caused water to flow From the rock for them; And He split the rock, And the waters gushed
out.
48:22 耶和华说，恶人必没有平安。
There is no peace, says Jehovah, for the wicked.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 49 章
49:1 众海岛阿，当听我言；远方的众民哪，要留心听。从我在胎中，耶和华就呼召了我；从我在母腹中，祂就题我的名。
Listen to me, O coastlands, And hearken, you peoples from afar. Jehovah has called me from the womb; From the bowels of my mother He has made mention of
my name.
49:2 祂使我的口如快刀，将我藏在祂手荫之下；又使我成为磨亮的箭，将我藏在祂箭袋之中。
And He has made my mouth like a sharp sword; He has concealed me in the shadow of His hand, And He has made me a polished arrow; He has hidden me in
His quiver.
49:3 祂对我说，你是我的仆人以色列，我必因你得荣耀。
And He said to me, You are My servant, Israel, in whom I will be glorified.
49:4 我却说，我劳碌是徒然，我尽力是虚无虚空；然而我当得的公理是在耶和华那里，我的赏报是在我神那里。
But I said, I have labored in vain; I have used up my strength for nothing and vanity; Yet surely the justice due to me is with Jehovah, And my recompense with my
God.
49:5 耶和华从我在胎中就塑造我作祂的仆人，要使雅各归向祂，使以色列聚集到祂那里；我要在耶和华眼中被看为尊荣，我的神也要成为我的力量。
And now says Jehovah, Who formed Me from the womb to be His Servant, To bring Jacob back to Him, So that Israel would be gathered to Him; And I will be
glorified in the sight of Jehovah, And My God will be My strength.
49:6 祂说，你作我的仆人，使雅各众支派复兴，使以色列中得保全的归回，尚为小事；我还要立你作外邦人的光，叫你施行我的救恩，直到地极。
He says, It is too small a thing that You would be My Servant To raise up the tribes of Jacob And bring back the preserved of Israel; I will also set You as a light of
the nations That You may be My salvation unto the ends of the earth.
49:7 以色列的救赎主，他的圣者耶和华，对那被人所藐视、本国所憎恶、统治者所奴役的，如此说，君王要看见就站起，首领也要下拜；都因信实的耶和
华，就是拣选你以色列的圣者。
Thus says Jehovah, The Redeemer of Israel, His Holy One, To the despised One, the One abhorred by the nation, The One subjected to tyrants, Kings will see and
arise, And princes will bow down; Because of Jehovah, who is faithful, The Holy One of Israel, who has chosen You.
49:8 耶和华如此说，在悦纳的时候，我应允了你；在拯救的日子，我济助了你；我要保护你，使你作众民的约，复兴遍地，使人承受荒凉之地为业；
Thus says Jehovah, In an acceptable time I have answered You, And in a day of salvation I have helped You; And I will preserve You and give You for a covenant
of the people, To restore the land, to apportion the desolate inheritances,
49:9 对那被囚的人说，出来罢；对那在黑暗中的人说，显露罢。他们在路上必得饮食，在一切光秃的高处必有草场；
To say to the prisoners, Come forth, To say to those who are in darkness, Show yourselves. They will feed along the roads, And their pasture will be on all the
bare heights;
49:10 他们必不饥不渴；炎热和烈日必不伤害他们；因为怜恤他们的必引导他们，领他们到水泉旁边。
They will not hunger or thirst; Neither the scorching heat nor the sun will strike them; For He who has compassion on them will lead them And will guide them
beside the springs of water;
49:11 我必使我的众山成为道路，我的大道也必被修高。
And I will make all My mountains into a road, And My highways will be raised up.
49:12 看哪，这些要从远方来，看哪，这些要从北方、西方来，这些要从希尼之地来。
Indeed, these will come from a distance, And indeed these will come from the north and the west, And these from the land of the Sinim.
49:13 诸天哪，应当欢呼；大地阿，应当欢腾；众山哪，应当发声欢呼；因为耶和华已经安慰祂的百姓，也要怜恤祂困苦之民。
Give a ringing shout, O heavens, and exult, O earth, And break forth into shouting, O mountains; For Jehovah has comforted His people And will have
compassion on His afflicted ones.
49:14 锡安曾说，耶和华离弃了我，主忘记了我。
But Zion has said, Jehovah has forsaken me, And the Lord has forgotten me.
49:15 妇人焉能忘记她吃奶的婴孩，不怜恤她亲生的儿子？即或有忘记的，我却不忘记你。
Can a woman forget her nursing child, That she would not have compassion on the son of her womb? Even though they may forget, Yet I will not forget you.
49:16 看哪，我已将你铭刻在我掌上；你的墙垣常在我面前。
Indeed, I have engraved you upon the palms of My hands; Your walls are continually before Me.
49:17 你的儿女急速归回，毁坏你的、使你荒废的，必都离你出去。
Your children make haste; Your destroyers and those who lay you waste Will go forth from you.
49:18 你举目向四围观看；他们都聚集来到你这里。耶和华说，我指着我的生存起誓，你必要以他们为妆饰佩戴，以他们为华带束腰，像新妇一样。
Lift up your eyes and look around; All of these gather themselves together and come to you. As I live, declares Jehovah, You will put all of them on like an
ornament And gird yourself with them like a bride.
49:19 至于你荒废凄凉之处，并你被毁坏之地，现今众民居住必显为太窄；吞灭你的必离你遥远。
For your waste and desolate places And your devastated land-For you will be too constricted now because of its inhabitants, And those who swallowed you up
will be far away.
49:20 你丧失的儿女还要在你耳中说，这地方对我太窄，求你给我预备地方居住。
709
The children of whom you were bereaved Will yet say in your ears, This place is too constricted for me; Make room for me that I may dwell here.
49:21 那时你心里必说，我既丧子又没有生育，是被迁徙、赶逐在外的，谁给我生这些孩子？谁将他们养大？看哪，我被撇下独自一人；这些孩子从那里
来呢？
Then you will say in your heart, Who has borne these for me, Since I have been bereaved of children and am barren, An exile and driven about? And who
brought these up? Indeed, I was left alone; From where did these come?
49:22 主耶和华如此说，我必向列国举手，向众民高举我的旌旗；他们必将你的众子抱在怀中带来，将你的众女放在肩上扛来。
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Indeed, I will lift up My hand to the nations, And unto the peoples I will lift up My banner; And they will bring your sons in their arms,
And they will carry your daughters on their shoulders.
49:23 列王必作你的养父，他们的王后必作你的乳母；他们必将脸伏地，向你下拜，并舔你脚上的尘土；你便知道我是耶和华，等候我的必不至羞愧。
And kings will be your foster fathers; And their princesses will be those who nurse you; They will bow down to you with their faces toward the earth And lick the
dust of your feet; And you will know that I am Jehovah; Those who wait on Me will not be ashamed.
49:24 壮者抢去的岂能夺回？理当掳掠的岂能解救么？
Can the booty be taken from the strong man, Or the lawful captives be delivered?
49:25 耶和华实在如此说，就是壮者所掳掠的，也可以夺回，强暴人所抢的，也可以解救；因为与你相争的，我必与他相争，我要拯救你的儿女；
Surely, thus says Jehovah, Even the captive may be taken from the strong man, And the booty may be released from the tyrant; For I will strive with those who
strive with you, And I will save your children;
49:26 并且我必使那些欺压你的吃自己的肉；他们要喝醉自己的血，好像喝甜酒一样；凡属肉体的必都知道，我是耶和华你的救主，是你的救赎主，是雅
各的大能者。
And I will feed those who oppress you with their own flesh; And they will be drunk with their own blood as with sweet wine; Then all flesh will know That I am
Jehovah your Savior And your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 50 章
50:1 耶和华如此说，我休了你们的母亲，休书在那里？我将你们卖给我那一个债主呢？看哪，你们被卖，是因你们的罪孽；你们的母亲被休，是因你们的
过犯。
Thus says Jehovah, Where is the bill of your mother's divorce With which I have put her away? Or to which of My creditors Have I sold you? Indeed, for your
iniquities you were sold, And for your transgressions your mother was put away.
50:2 我来的时候，为何无人等候？我呼唤的时候，为何无人答应？我的手臂岂是缩短，不能救赎么？我岂无拯救之力么？看哪，我一斥责，海就干了；
Why when I came was there no man? And when I called why was there no one to answer? Is My hand so short that it cannot redeem? Or do I have no power to
deliver? Indeed, at My rebuke I dry up the sea; I make the rivers a wilderness; Their fish stink because there is no water, And die of thirst.
50:3 我使江河变为旷野；其中的鱼因无水腥臭，干渴而死。我使诸天以黑暗为衣服，以麻布为遮盖。
I clothe the heavens with blackness, And make sackcloth their covering.
50:4 主耶和华赐我受教者的舌头，使我知道怎样用言语扶助疲乏的人。主每早晨唤醒我；祂唤醒我的耳朵，使我能听，像受教者一样。
The Lord Jehovah has given me The tongue of the instructed, That I should know how to sustain the weary with a word. He awakens me morning by morning; He
awakens my ear To hear as an instructed one.
50:5 主耶和华开通我的耳朵；我并没有违背，也没有退后。
The Lord Jehovah has opened my ear; And I was not rebellious, Nor did I turn back.
50:6 人打我的背，我任他打；人拔我腮颊的胡须，我由他拔；人辱我吐我，我并不掩面。
I gave my back to those who strike me And my cheeks to those who pluck out the hair; I did not hide my face From humiliation and spitting.
50:7 主耶和华必帮助我，所以我不抱愧；我硬着脸面好像坚石，我也知道我必不至蒙羞。
The Lord Jehovah helps me; Therefore I have not been dishonored; Therefore I have set my face like a flint, And I know that I will not be put to shame.
50:8 称我为义的与我相近；谁与我争论？我们可以一同站立！谁在审判中与我作对？可以就近我来。
The One who justifies me is near; who will contend with me? Let us stand up together! Who is my adversary in judgment? Let him come near to me.
50:9 看哪，主耶和华要帮助我；谁能定我有罪？他们都要像衣服渐渐旧了，为蛀虫所咬。
Indeed, the Lord Jehovah helps me, Who is the one who condemns me? Indeed, they will all wear out like a garment; The moth will consume them.
50:10 你们中间谁敬畏耶和华，听从祂仆人的声音，而行在暗中没有亮光？他当信靠耶和华的名，依赖自己的神。
Who among you fears Jehovah; Who hears the voice of His servant; Who walks in darkness And has no light? Let him trust in the name of Jehovah, And rely on
his God.
50:11 看哪，凡你们点火用火把围绕自己的，可以行在你们火焰的光里，并你们所点的火把中。这是你们从我手里所要得的：你们必躺在悲惨之中。
Indeed, all of you who kindle a fire, Who surround yourselves with firebrands, Walk into the light of your fire And into the firebrands which you have lit. You will
have this from My hand: You will lie down in torment.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 51 章
51:1 你们这追求公义、寻求耶和华的，当听我言；你们要仰望你们从其中被凿而出的磐石，和你们从其中被挖而出的岩穴。
Listen to Me, you who pursue righteousness, Who seek after Jehovah, Look to the rock from which you were hewn, And to the excavation of the quarry from
which you were dug.
51:2 要仰望你们的祖宗亚伯拉罕，和为你们受生产之苦的撒拉；因为亚伯拉罕独自一人的时候，我呼召了他，赐福与他，使他人数增多。
Look to Abraham your father, And to Sarah who travailed with you; For I called him when he was one person, And blessed him and multiplied him.
51:3 耶和华已经安慰锡安；祂已经安慰锡安一切的荒场，使她的旷野像伊甸，使她的沙漠像耶和华的园子。在其中必有欢喜、快乐、感谢、和歌唱的声音。
For Jehovah has comforted Zion; He has comforted all her waste places, And made her wilderness like Eden, And her desert like the garden of Jehovah.
Gladness and joy will be found in her, Thanksgiving and the voice of song.
51:4 我的百姓阿，要留心听我；我的国民哪，要向我侧耳；因为训诲必从我而出，我必立定我的典章为万民之光。
Hearken to Me, O My people; Give ear to Me, O My nation; For instruction will go out from Me; And I will set My judgment as a light for the peoples.
710
51:5 我的公义临近，我的救恩已经发出，我的膀臂要审判众民；众海岛要等候我，寄望于我的膀臂。
My righteousness is near; My salvation has gone forth; My arms will judge the peoples; The coastlands will wait for Me And place their hope in My arm.
51:6 你们要向天举目，观看下地；因为天必像烟云消散，地必如衣服渐渐旧了，其上的居民也要如此死亡；惟有我的救恩永远长存，我的公义也不废掉。
Lift up your eyes to the heavens, And look upon the earth beneath; For the heavens will vanish away like smoke, And the earth will wear out like a garment, And
those who dwell there will die in like manner; But My salvation will be forever, And My righteousness will not be abolished.
51:7 你们这知道公义，将我训诲存在心中的民，要听我言，不要怕人的辱骂，也不要因人的毁谤惊惶。
Listen to Me, you who know righteousness, A people in whose heart is My instruction, Do not fear the reproach of man; Do not be terrified at their revilings.
51:8 因为蛀虫必咬他们，好像咬衣服，虫子必咬他们，如同咬羊绒；惟有我的公义永远长存，我的救恩直到万代。
For the moth will eat them up like a garment, And the worm will eat them like wool; But My righteousness will be forever, And My salvation from generation to
generation.
51:9 耶和华的膀臂阿，醒起，醒起！穿上能力；像古时的日子、上古的世代一样醒起。从前砍碎拉哈伯、把龙刺透的，不是你么？
Awake, awake! Put on strength, O arm of Jehovah; Awake as in the days of old, As in the generations of past ages. Was it not You who cut Rahab in pieces, Who
pierced through the dragon?
51:10 使海与深渊的水干涸，使海的深处变为赎民经过之路的，不是你么？
Was it not You who dried up the sea, The waters of the great deep; Who made the depths of the sea into a way For the redeemed to pass through?
51:11 耶和华救赎的民必归回，欢呼来到锡安，永远的喜乐必归到他们的头上。他们必得着欢喜快乐，忧愁叹息尽都逃避。
Therefore the ransomed of Jehovah will return And will come to Zion with a ringing shout, And eternal joy will be upon their heads. They will lay hold on gladness
and joy, And sorrow and sighing will flee away.
51:12 惟有我是耶和华，是安慰你们的。你是谁，竟怕那必死的人，怕那要变如草的世人；
I, even I, am He who will comfort you. Who are you that you are afraid of man who will die, And of the son of man who will be made like grass,
51:13 却忘记了铺张诸天、建立地基、造你的耶和华；又因欺压者定意毁灭你所发的暴怒，终日不住的害怕？其实那欺压者的暴怒在那里呢？
That you have forgotten Jehovah who made you, Who stretched out the heavens And laid the foundations of the earth, That you have been continually afraid
every day, Because of the fury of the oppressor When he sets himself up to destroy you? But where is the fury of the oppressor?
51:14 被捆绑的快要得释放，必不死而下坑；他的食物也不至缺乏。
The one who is bowed down will soon be released And will not die in the pit, Nor will his bread be lacking.
51:15 我是耶和华你的神，就是那搅动大海，使海中波浪匉訇的，万军之耶和华是祂的名。
I am Jehovah your God, Who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar, Jehovah of hosts is His name.
51:16 我已将我的话放在你口中，用我的手荫遮蔽你，为要栽定诸天，建立地基，又对锡安说，你是我的百姓。
And I have put My words in your mouth, And I have covered you in the shadow of My hand, To plant the heavens and lay the foundations of the earth, And to say
to Zion, You are My people.
51:17 耶路撒冷阿，醒起，醒起；你这从耶和华手中喝了祂忿怒之杯的，要站起来；你喝了那使人东倒西歪的杯爵，以致喝尽。
Wake yourself up, wake yourselfup; Stand up, O Jerusalem, You who have drunk from the hand of Jehovah The cup of His wrath; The bowl of the cup of
staggering You have drunk; you have drained it out.
51:18 她所生的众子中，没有一个引导她的；她所养大的众子中，没有一个搀扶她手的。
There is no one to guide her Among all the children whom she has brought forth; There is no one to take her by the hand Among all the children she has raised
up.
51:19 荒凉与毁灭，饥荒与刀剑，这两样临到你，谁为你举哀？我如何安慰你呢？
These two things have happened to you; Who will lament for you? Desolation and destruction, and famine and sword. How will I comfort you?
51:20 你的众子发昏；他们在各街头躺卧，好像黄羊在网罗之中，满受了耶和华的忿怒，你神的斥责。
Your sons have fainted; They lie at the head of every street like an antelope in a net, Full of the wrath of Jehovah, The rebuke of your God.
51:21 因此，你这困苦的，非因酒而醉的，要听这话：
Therefore hear this now, O afflicted one, You who are drunk but not with wine:
51:22 你的主耶和华，并你的神，就是那为祂百姓辨屈的，如此说，看哪，我已将那使人东倒西歪的杯，从你手中取去；你必不至再喝我忿怒的杯爵。
Thus says your Lord Jehovah and your God Who pleads the cause of His people, Indeed, I have taken from your hand The cup of staggering; You will no longer
need to drink The bowl of the cup of My wrath anymore;
51:23 我必将这杯递在苦待你的人手中，他们曾对你说，你屈身俯伏，由我们践踏过去罢；你便以背为地，好像街道，任人经过。
And I will put it into the hand of those who afflict you, Who have said to your soul, Bow down That we may walk over you; And you have made your back like the
ground, Like the street for them to cross over.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 52 章
52:1 锡安哪，醒起，醒起！穿上你的能力；圣城耶路撒冷阿，穿上你华美的衣服；因为未受割礼的和不洁净的，必不再进入你中间。
Awake! Awake! Put on Your strength, O Zion; Put on your beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, O holy city; For the uncircumcised and the unclean Will no longer
come into you.
52:2 耶路撒冷阿，要抖下尘土；起来坐在位上；锡安被掳的女子阿，要解开你颈项的锁炼。
Shake yourself from the dust; arise, Sit down, O Jerusalem; Loose yourself from the bonds on your neck, O captive daughter of Zion.
52:3 耶和华如此说，你们是无价被卖的，也必无银被赎。
For thus says Jehovah, You are those who have been sold for nothing, and you will be redeemed without money.
52:4 主耶和华如此说，起先我的百姓下到埃及，在那里寄居；后来有亚述人无故欺压他们。
For thus says the Lord Jehovah, At first My people went down to Egypt to sojourn there; then the Assyrian oppressed them without cause.
52:5 耶和华说，我的百姓既是无价被掳去，如今我在这里作什么呢？耶和华说，辖制他们的人咆哮，我的名终日不住的受亵渎。
Now then what do I have here, declares Jehovah, since My people have been taken away for nothing? Those who rule over them howl, declares Jehovah, and
My name is continually blasphemed all day long.
52:6 所以我的百姓必知道我的名；到那日他们必知道说这话的就是我；看哪，是我。
Therefore My people will know My name; therefore in that day they will know that I am He who speaks; here I am.
711
52:7 那报佳音、传平安、报好信、传救恩的，对锡安说，你的神作王了！这人的脚踪在山上何等佳美。
How beautiful on the mountains Are the feet of him who brings good news, Of him who announces peace, who brings news of good things, Who announces
salvation; Of him who says to Zion, Your God reigns!
52:8 听阿，你守望者的声音！他们扬起声来，一同欢呼；因为耶和华恢复锡安的时候，他们必亲眼看见。
The voice of your watchmen! They lift up their voice; They give a ringing shout together; For they will see with their very own eyes When Jehovah restores Zion.
52:9 耶路撒冷的荒场阿，要发声一同欢呼，因为耶和华安慰了祂的百姓，救赎了耶路撒冷。
Break forth, give a ringing shout together, You wasted places of Jerusalem, For Jehovah has comforted His people, He has redeemed Jerusalem.
52:10 耶和华在万国眼前露出了圣臂，地极的人都要看见我们神的救恩。
Jehovah has bared His holy arm In the sight of all the nations, And all the ends of the earth will see The salvation of our God.
52:11 你们离开，离开罢！要从那里出来！不要沾不洁净的物！要从其中出来！你们扛抬耶和华器皿的人哪，务要洁净你们自己！
Depart! Depart! Go out from there! Do not touch any unclean thing! Go out from the midst of her! Cleanse yourselves, You who bear the vessels of Jehovah!
52:12 你们出来必不至急忙，行走也不至奔逃；因为耶和华必在你们前头行，以色列的神必在你们后面护卫。
For you will not go out in haste, And you will not go in flight; For Jehovah will go before you, And the God of Israel will be your rear guard.
52:13 看哪，我的仆人行事必精明通达；祂必受尊崇，被高举，且成为至高。
Indeed, My Servant will act wisely and will prosper; He will be exalted and lifted up and very high.
52:14 许多人因祂惊讶，(祂的面貌比别人憔悴，祂的形容比世人枯槁。)
Even as many were astonished at Him-His visage was marred more than that of any man, And His form more than that of the sons of men -
52:15 照样，祂必使许多国民惊奇；君王要因祂闭口；因为未曾传述与他们的，他们必看见；未曾听见的，他们要明白。
So will He surprise many nations; Kings will shut their mouths because of Him; For what had not been recounted to them they will see, And what they had not
heard of they will contemplate.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 53 章
53:1 我们所传的，有谁信呢？耶和华的膀臂向谁显露呢？
Who has believed our report? And to whom has the arm of Jehovah been revealed?
53:2 祂在耶和华面前生长如嫩芽，像根出于干地。祂无佳形华美叫我们观看祂，也无美貌使我们羡慕祂。
For He grew up like a tender plant before Him, And like a root out of dry ground. He has no attracting form nor majesty that we should look upon Him, Nor
beautiful appearance that we should desire Him.
53:3 祂被藐视，被人厌弃，多受痛苦，常经忧患；祂被藐视，好像被人掩面不看的一样；我们也不尊重祂。
He was despised and forsaken of men, A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief; And like one from whom men hide their faces, He was despised; and we
did not esteem Him.
53:4 祂诚然担当了我们的忧患，背负了我们的痛苦；我们却以为祂受责罚，被神击打苦待了。
Surely He has borne our sicknesses, And carried our sorrows; Yet we ourselves esteemed Him stricken, Smitten of God and afflicted.
53:5 那知祂为我们的过犯受创，为我们的罪孽压伤；因祂受的刑罚我们得平安，因祂受的鞭伤我们得医治。
But He was wounded because of our transgressions; He was crushed because of our iniquities; The chastening for our peace was upon Him, And by His stripes
we have been healed.
53:6 我们都如羊走迷，各人偏行己路；耶和华使我们众人的罪孽都归在祂身上。
We all like sheep have gone astray; Each of us has turned to his own way, And Jehovah has caused the iniquity of us all To fall on Him.
53:7 祂被欺压，受苦却不开口；祂像羊羔被牵去宰杀，又像羊在剪毛的人面前无声，祂也是这样不开口。
He was oppressed, and it was He who was afflicted, Yet He did not open His mouth; Like a lamb that is led to the slaughter And like a sheep that is dumb before
its shearers, So He did not open His mouth.
53:8 因受欺压和审判祂被夺去；至于祂那世代的人，谁想祂是因我百姓的过犯，受他们所当受的鞭打，从活人之地被剪除呢？
By oppression and by judgment He was taken away; And as for His generation, who among them had the thought That He was cut off out of the land of the
living For the transgression of my peopleto whom the stroke was due?
53:9 祂虽然未行强暴，口中也没有诡诈，人还使祂与恶人同埋，谁知死的时候与财主同葬。
And they assigned His grave with the wicked, But with a rich man in His death, Although He had done no violence, Nor was there any deceit in His mouth.
53:10 耶和华却喜悦将祂压伤，使祂受痛苦。祂使自己成了为着罪的祭，祂必看见后裔，并且延长年日；耶和华所喜悦的事，必在祂手中亨通。
But Jehovah was pleased to crush Him, to afflict Him with grief. When He makes Himself an offering for sin, He will see a seed, He will extend His days, And the
pleasure of Jehovah will prosper in His hand.
53:11 祂必看见自己劳苦的果效，便心满意足；有许多人，因认识那义者我的仆人而成为义的；并且祂要担当他们的罪孽。
He will see the fruit of the travail of His soul, And He will be satisfied; By the knowledge of Him, the righteous One, My Servant, will make the many righteous, And
He will bear their iniquities.
53:12 所以我要使祂与至大者同分，与至强者均分掳物；因为祂将命倾倒，以至于死，且被算在罪犯之中；惟独祂担当多人的罪，又为罪犯代求。
Therefore I will divide to Him a portion with the Great, And He will divide the spoil with the Strong; Because He poured out His life unto death And was numbered
with the transgressors, Yet He alone bore the sin of many And interceded for the transgressors.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 54 章
54:1 你这不怀孕未生养的，要欢呼；你这未曾经过产难的，要发声欢呼，放声呼喊；因为独居的，比有丈夫的儿女更多；这是耶和华说的。
Give a ringing shout, O barren one, you who have not borne; Break forth into joyful shouting and cry out, you who have not been in labor; For more numerous are
the children of the desolate one Than the children of the married woman, says Jehovah.
54:2 要扩张你帐棚之地，张大你居所的幔子，不要限制；要放长你的绳子，坚固你的橛子；
Enlarge your tent site, Let them stretch out the curtains of your habitations; Spare not; Lengthen your cords, And strengthen your pegs;
54:3 因为你要向左向右开展，你的后裔必得多国为业，又使荒凉的城邑有人居住。
712
For on the right and on the left you will break open, And your seed will possess the nations And will cause the desolate cities to be inhabited.
54:4 不要惧怕，因你必不至蒙羞；也不要抱愧，因你必不至受辱；你必忘记幼年的羞愧，不再记念你寡居的羞辱。
Fear not, for you will not be put to shame; Neither be humiliated, for you will not be ashamed; But you will forget the shame of your youth, And the reproach of
your widowhood you will no longer remember.
54:5 因为造你的，是你的丈夫；万军之耶和华是祂的名。救赎你的，是以色列的圣者；祂必称为全地的神。
For your Maker is your Husband; Jehovah of hosts is His name. And the Holy One of Israel is your Redeemer; He is called the God of all the earth.
54:6 耶和华召了你，如召被离弃、灵中忧伤的妻子，就是幼年所娶被弃的妻子；这是你的神说的。
For Jehovah has called you, Like a wife who has been forsaken and is grieved in spirit, Even like a wife of one's youth when she has been rejected, Says your God.
54:7 我离弃你不过片时，却要施大怜恤将你招聚回来。
For a short moment I forsook you, But with great compassion I will gather you.
54:8 我曾怒气涨溢，顷刻之间向你掩面，却要以永远的慈爱怜恤你；这是耶和华你的救赎主说的。
In a flood of wrath I hid My face from you for a moment, But with eternal lovingkindness I will have mercy on you, Says Jehovah your Redeemer.
54:9 这事在我好像挪亚的洪水；我怎样起誓不再使挪亚的洪水漫过大地，我也照样起誓不再向你发怒，也不斥责你。
For this is like the waters of Noah to Me, When I swore that the waters of Noah Would not overflow the earth ever again; So I have sworn that I will not be angry
with you, Nor will I rebuke you.
54:10 大山可以移开，小山可以动摇，但我的慈爱必不从你移开，我平安的约也必不动摇；这是怜恤你的耶和华说的。
For the mountains may depart, And the hills may shake, But My lovingkindness will not depart from you, And My covenant of peace will not shake, Says Jehovah
who has compassion on you.
54:11 你这受困苦被风飘荡不得安慰的人哪，我必亲自将你的石头安置在黑石上，以蓝宝石立定你的根基；
O afflicted one, storm-tossed and not comforted, Indeed, I Myself will lay down your stones in dark mortar, And will lay your foundations with sapphires.
54:12 又以红宝石造你的城垛，以红玉造你的城门，以宝石造你四围的边界。
And I will make your battlements of rubies, And your gates of carbuncles, And all your borders will be precious stones.
54:13 你的儿女都要受耶和华的教训，你的儿女必大享平安。
And all your children will be taught of Jehovah, And the peace of your children will be great.
54:14 你必因公义得坚立；必远离欺压，不至害怕；你必远离惊吓，惊吓必不临近你。
In righteousness you will be established; You will be far from oppression, for you will not fear, And far from terror, for it will not come near you.
54:15 即或有人猛烈攻击你，却不由于我；凡攻击你的，必因你仆倒。
Indeed, they may fiercely attack you, but it is not of Me; Whoever attacks you will fall because of you.
54:16 看哪，那吹嘘炭火，造出合用器械的铁匠，是我所创造；那残害人、行毁灭的，也是我所创造。
Indeed, it is I who have created the blacksmith Who blows the fire of the coals, And brings out a weapon for its work; And it is I who have created the destroyer to
ruin.
54:17 凡为攻击你造成的器械，必无效用；凡在审判时起来与你争辩的舌头，你必将它驳倒。这是耶和华仆人的产业，是他们从我所得的义；这是耶和华
说的。
No weapon that is formed against you will prosper, And every tongue that rises up to judge you, you will condemn. This is the heritage of the servants of Jehovah,
And their righteousness which is of Me, declares Jehovah.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 55 章
55:1 喂！你们一切干渴的都当就近水来，没有银钱的也可以来；你们都来，买了吃；不用银钱，不用价值，也来买酒和奶。
Ho! Everyone who thirsts, come to the waters, And you who have no money; Come, buy and eat; Yes, come, buy wine and milk Without money and without price.
55:2 你们为何花钱买那不是食物的，用劳碌得来的买那不能使人饱足的呢？你们要留意听我的话，就能吃那美物，使你们的魂享肥甘得喜乐。
Why do you spend money for what is not bread, And the result of your labor for what does not satisfy? Hear Me attentively, and eat what is good, And let your
soul delight itself in fatness.
55:3 你们要到我这里来，侧耳而听，你们的魂就必得活；我必与你们立永远的约，就是向大卫所显确定的怜悯。
Incline your ear and come to Me; Hear, so that your soul may live; And I will make an eternal covenant with you, Even the sure mercies shown to David.
55:4 我已立祂向众民作见证人，为众民的领袖和司令。
Indeed, I have given Him as a Witness to the peoples, A Leader and a Commander to the peoples.
55:5 看哪，你素不认识的国民，你要召来；素不认识你的国民，也必向你奔跑，都因耶和华你的神，就是以色列的圣者，因为祂已经荣耀你。
Indeed, you will call a nation that you do not know, And a nation that does not know you will run to you, Because of Jehovah your God, even the Holy One of
Israel, For He has glorified you.
55:6 当趁耶和华可寻找的时候寻找祂，相近的时候呼求祂。
Seek Jehovah while He may be found; Call upon Him while He is near.
55:7 恶人当离弃自己的道路，作孽的人当弃绝自己的意念，归向耶和华，耶和华就必怜恤他；当归向我们的神，因为祂必广行赦免。
Let the wicked forsake his way, And the evildoer, his thoughts; And let him return to Jehovah, and He will have compassion on him; And to our God, for He will
pardon abundantly.
55:8 耶和华说，我的意念并非你们的意念，你们的道路并非我的道路。
For My thoughts are not your thoughts, And your ways are not My ways, declares Jehovah.
55:9 天怎样高过地，照样我的道路高过你们的道路，我的意念高过你们的意念。
For as the heavens are higher than the earth, So My ways are higher than your ways, And My thoughts higher than your thoughts.
55:10 就如雨雪从天而降，并不返回，却滋润地土，使地发芽结实，使撒种的有种，使要吃的有粮；
For just as the rain comes down And the snow from heaven, And does not return there, Until it waters the earth And makes it bear and sprout forth, That it may
give seed to the sower and bread to the eater;
55:11 我口所出的话也必如此，绝不徒然返回，却要成就我所喜悦的，在我所打发去成就的事上必然亨通。
So will My word be which goes forth from My mouth; It will not return to Me vainly, But it will accomplish what I delight in, And it will prosper in the matter to which
I have sent it.
713
55:12 你们必欢欢喜喜的出来，平平安安的蒙引导；大山小山必在你们面前发声欢呼，田野的树木也都拍掌。
For you will go out with rejoicing, And you will be led forth in peace; The mountains and the hills Will break forth before you with a ringing shout, And all the trees
of the field will clap their hands.
55:13 松树要长起代替荆棘；番石榴要长起代替蒺藜；这要为耶和华留名，作为永远的记号，不能剪除。
In place of the thornbush, the fir tree will come up; In place of the brier, the myrtle will come up; And it will be to Jehovah as a name, As an eternal sign that will
not be cut off.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 56 章
56:1 耶和华如此说，你们当守公平、行公义，因我的救恩快要来到，我的公义快要显现。
Thus says Jehovah, Preserve justice and do righteousness, For My salvation is about to come And My righteousness is about to be revealed.
56:2 谨守安息日不渎犯，保守己手不作恶事，如此行，如此持守的人，便为有福。
Blessed is the man who does this, And the son of man who takes hold of it, Who keeps the Sabbath so as not to profane it And keeps his hand from doing any
evil.
56:3 与耶和华联合的外邦人不要说，耶和华必定将我从祂民中分别出来；太监也不要说，我是枯树。
And let not the son of a foreigner Who has joined himself to Jehovah speak, saying, Jehovah will surely separate me from His people; Nor let the eunuch say,
Now I am a dry tree.
56:4 因为耶和华如此说，那些谨守我安息日、拣选我所喜悦之事、持守我约的太监，
For thus says Jehovah, To the eunuchs who keep My Sabbaths And choose what pleases Me, And hold fast My covenant,
56:5 我必使他们在我殿中、在我墙内，有记念、有名号，比有儿女的更美；我必赐他们永远的名，是不能剪除的。
To them I will give in My house and within My walls a memorial and a name Better than that of sons and daughters; I will give them an eternal name Which will
not be cut off.
56:6 还有那些与耶和华联合的外邦人，要事奉祂，要爱耶和华的名，要作祂的仆人，就是凡守安息日不渎犯，又持守我约的人，
Also the children of the foreigner who join themselves to Jehovah, To minister to Him and to love the name of Jehovah, To be servants to Him, Everyone who
keeps the Sabbath so as not to profane it And holds fast My covenant,
56:7 我必领他们到我的圣山，使他们在我祷告的殿中喜乐；他们的燔祭和平安祭，在我祭坛上必蒙悦纳；因我的殿必称为万民祷告的殿。
Even these will I cause to come to My holy mountain And to rejoice in My house of prayer; Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be acceptable upon My
altar; For My house will be called a house of prayer for all the peoples.
56:8 主耶和华，就是招聚以色列被赶散之人的，说，在这些已经被招聚归祂的人以外，我还要招聚别人归祂。
The Lord Jehovah, who gathers the outcasts of Israel, declares: Yet will I gather others to Him besides those gathered to Him already.
56:9 田野的兽，你们都来吞吃罢，林中的兽，你们也要如此。
All you animals of the field, come to eat, All you animals of the forest.
56:10 以色列守望的人是瞎眼的，都没有知识，都是哑吧狗，不能吠叫；但知作梦、躺卧、贪睡。
His watchmen are blind; All of them know nothing; All of them are dumb dogs, They cannot bark; Dreamers who lie down And love to slumber.
56:11 这些狗贪食，不知饱足。他们是缺少悟性的牧人，全都偏行己路，各求自己的利益，人人如此。
And these dogs are greedy; They know no satisfaction. And they are shepherds Who lack understanding. All of them have turned to their own way, Each to his
own gain, to the last of them.
56:12 他们说，来罢，我去拿淡酒，我们饱饮浓酒；明日必和今日一样，并且更为丰盈。
Come, they say, let me get some wine, And let us drink down some liquor; And tomorrow will be like today, Only much more abundant.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 57 章
57:1 义人死亡，无人放在心上；敬虔人被收去，无人思念；这义人被收去是脱离了祸患。
The righteous man perishes, And no one takes it to heart; And godly men are being swept away, While no one considers That the righteous man is being swept
away from evil.
57:2 他们进入平安；素行正直的，在他们的坟墓里安歇。
He enters into peace; They rest in their beds, Each who walks uprightly.
57:3 你们这些巫婆的儿子，奸夫和妓女之种，都要近前来。
But draw near here, You children of a sorceress, You seed of an adulterer and of her who prostitutes herself.
57:4 你们向谁戏笑，向谁张口吐舌呢？你们岂不是悖逆的儿女，虚谎之种么？
Whom are you mocking, And against whom are you opening your mouth wide And sticking out your tongue? Are you not children of transgression, A seed of
falsehood,
57:5 你们在橡树中间，在各青翠树下欲火中烧，在山谷间，在石穴下杀了儿女。
Who inflame yourselves among the terebinths, Under every flourishing tree, Who slaughter the children in the valleys Under the clefts of the rocks?
57:6 在谷中光滑石头里有你的分；这些就是你所得的分。你也向这些浇了奠祭，献了素祭；对这些事我岂能宽容呢？
Among the smooth stones of the valley is your portion, They, yes, they are your lot. Indeed, to them you have poured out a drink offering, You have offered a meal
offering. Shall I ease Myself of these?
57:7 你在高而又高的山上安设床榻，也上那里去献祭牲。
Upon a high and lofty mountain You have set your bed. Indeed, you went up there To offer sacrifice.
57:8 你在门后，在门框后，安设你的记念。你离开我赤露自己，并且上去扩张床榻；你又为自己与他们立约；你喜爱他们的床，看见他们的赤身。
And behind the door and doorpost You have put your reminder. For apart from Me, you have uncovered yourself and gone up; You have extended your bed; And
you have made an agreement for yourself with them; You loved their bed; you saw their nakedness.
57:9 你带着油到王那里，又多加香料；你打发使者往远方去，自卑自贱直到阴间。
And you went to the king with oil, And you increased your perfumes; You sent your envoys far away And debased yourself even as far as Sheol.
714
57:10 你因路远困倦，却不说，没有指望了；你寻得更新之力，所以不觉疲弱。
You were wearied with the length of your way, Yet you did not say, It is hopeless; You found the renewing of your strength, Therefore you did not weaken.
57:11 你因谁挂虑，因谁恐惧，竟说谎，不记念我，又不将这事放在心上？我不是许久闭口不言，你仍不怕我么？
And whom have you been worried about and feared, That you have lied and not remembered Me, Nor taken it to heart? Was I not silent, and that for a long time,
Yet you did not fear Me?
57:12 我要指明你的公义和你所行的，但这些都必与你无益。
I will declare your righteousness And your works, Yet they will not profit you.
57:13 你哀求的时候，让你所聚集的偶像拯救你罢；风要把它们全都刮走，一口气要把它们吹去。但那投靠我的必承受地土，必得我的圣山为业。
When you cry out, let your heaps of idols deliver you. But the wind will carry them all away; A breath will take them away. But he who takes refuge in Me will
inherit the land And possess My holy mountain.
57:14 耶和华要说，你们要修筑，修筑，要预备道路，将绊脚石从我百姓的路中拿起除掉。
And it will be said, Cast up, cast up; prepare the way; Take up the obstacle out of the way of My people.
57:15 因为那至高至上、住在永远、名为圣者的如此说，我必住在至高至圣的所在，也与心中痛悔和灵里卑微的人同居，要使卑微之人的灵苏醒，也使痛
悔之人的心苏醒。
For thus says the high and exalted One, Who inhabits eternity, whose name is Holy: I will dwell in the high and holy place, And with the contrite and lowly of spirit,
To revive the spirit of the lowly And to revive the heart of the contrite.
57:16 我必不永远争辩，也不长久发怒；因为有灵的，并我所造有气息的，在我面前都必发昏。
For I will not contend forever, Nor will I always be angry; For the spirit would faint before Me, And the souls which I have made.
57:17 因他贪得不义之财的罪孽，我就发怒击打他；我向他掩面发怒，他却仍然行走己路，随心背道。
Because of the iniquity of his unjust gain I was angry, And I struck him; I hid Myself and was angry; And he went on, turning away in the way of his heart.
57:18 我看见他所行的路，也要医治他；又要引导他，使他和那为他伤心的人再得安慰，
I have seen his ways And will heal him; And I will lead him and restore comfort to him And to his mourning ones,
57:19 造出嘴唇的果子：愿平安，平安归与远处的人，也归与近处的人；并且我要医治他；这是耶和华说的。
Creating the fruit of the lips: Peace, peace to him who is far off and to him who is near, Says Jehovah; and I will heal him.
57:20 惟独恶人，好像翻腾的海，不得平静，其中的水，常涌出污秽和淤泥来。
But the wicked are like the tossed sea, For it cannot be calm, And its waters toss up mire and mud.
57:21 我的神说，恶人必没有平安。
There is no peace, says my God, for the wicked.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 58 章
58:1 你要大声喊叫，不留余力；要扬起声来好像吹角，向我百姓说明他们的过犯，向雅各家说明他们的罪。
Cry loudly; do not hold back; Raise your voice like a trumpet, And declare to My people their transgression And to the house of Jacob their sins.
58:2 他们天天寻求我，乐意认识我的道路，好像行义的国民，未曾离弃他们神的典章。他们向我求问公义的判语，喜爱亲近神。
Yet they seek Me day by day And take delight in knowing My ways, Like a nation that has done righteousness And has not forsaken the judgment of their God.
They ask Me for righteous judgments; They take delight in approaching God.
58:3 他们说，我们禁食，你为何不看见？我们刻苦己心，你为何不理会？看哪，你们禁食的日子，仍寻求自己喜爱的事，欺压为你们作苦工的人。
Why have we fasted, and yet You do not see? Why have we afflicted our soul, and yet You do not acknowledge? Indeed, on the day of your fast you find delight,
And oppress all your laborers.
58:4 你们禁食，却吵闹争竞，以凶恶的拳头打人；你们今日这样禁食，并不能使你们的声音听闻于上。
Indeed, you fast for contention and strife, And to strike with a fist of wickedness; You do not fast, in the way you do today, To make your voice heard on high.
58:5 这岂是我所拣选，使人在刻苦己心的日子，禁食的样子么？岂是叫人垂头像苇子，用麻布和炉灰当床铺么？你可以称这为禁食，为耶和华所悦纳的日
子么？
Is such the fast that I choose, The day when a man afflicts his soul? Is it for bowing his head like a rush And for spreading out sackcloth and ashes as his bed?
Will you call this a fast, And an acceptable day to Jehovah?
58:6 我所拣选的禁食，岂不是要松开凶恶的绳，解下轭上的索，使被欺压的自由出去，并折断一切的轭么？
Is this not the fast that I choose, To loosen the bonds of wickedness, To undo the bands of the yoke, And to let the oppressed go free, And to break every yoke?
58:7 岂不是要把你的饼分给饥饿的人，将飘流的穷人接到你家中；见赤身的，给他衣服遮体；顾恤自己的骨肉而不掩藏么？
Is it not to divide your bread to the hungry, And to bring the wandering poor home; When you see the naked, to cover him, And not to hide yourself from your
own flesh?
58:8 这样，你的光就必突然发出如晨光，你所得的医治要速速发生。你的公义必在你前面行；耶和华的荣耀必作你的后盾。
Then your light will break forth like the dawn, And your recovery will speedily spring forth. And your righteousness will go before you; The glory of Jehovah will
guard you from behind.
58:9 那时你呼求，耶和华必应允；你呼救，祂必说，我在这里。你若从你中间除掉重轭、和指摘人的指头、并发恶言的事；
Then you will call, and Jehovah will answer; You will cry out, and He will say, Here I am. If you remove the yoke from your midst, The pointing of the finger and the
speaking of wickedness,
58:10 你若从心里向饥饿的人发怜悯，使困苦人的愿望得满足；你的光就必在黑暗中出现，你的幽暗必变如正午；
And if you draw out your soul to the hungry And satisfy the desires of the afflicted; Then your light will rise in the darkness, And your gloom will be like midday;
58:11 耶和华也必时常引导你，在干旱之时使你的心满足，使你的骨头强壮；你必像浇灌的园子，又像水流不绝的水泉。
And Jehovah will guide you continually, And satisfy your soul in the dry times, And strengthen your bones; And you will be like a watered garden, And like a
spring of water, Whose waters do not deceive.
58:12 那些出于你的人，必修造古久的荒场；你要建立累代的根基；你必称为修补破口的，和重修路径给人居住的。
And those who are of you will rebuild the ancient ruins; You will raise up the foundations of generation upon generation; And you will be called the repairer of the
breach, The restorer of the paths in which to dwell.
715
58:13 你若在安息日掉转你的脚步，在我的圣日不作自己喜爱的事，称安息日为可喜乐的，称那归耶和华为圣之日为可尊重的，并且尊重这日，不行自己
的路，不寻求自己的喜乐，也不说闲话；
If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath, From doing whatever you please on My holy day, And call the Sabbath a delight, That which is holy to Jehovah
honorable, And honor it, not doing your own ways, Nor finding your own pleasure and speaking idle words;
58:14 你就以耶和华为乐；我要使你乘驾地的高处，又以你祖雅各的产业喂养你；这是耶和华亲口说的。
Then you will have delight in Jehovah; And I will cause you to ride upon the heights of the earth, And I will feed you with the inheritance of Jacob your father; For
the mouth of Jehovah has spoken.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 59 章
59:1 耶和华的手臂并非缩短不能拯救；祂的耳朵并非发沉不能听见。
No, Jehovah's hand is not so short that it cannot save; Nor is His ear so heavy that it cannot hear.
59:2 但你们的罪孽使你们与神隔绝，你们的罪使祂掩面不听你们。
But your iniquities have become a separation Between you and your God, And your sins have hidden His face From you so that He does not hear.
59:3 因你们的手被血沾染，你们的指头被罪孽玷污；你们的嘴唇说虚谎之言，你们的舌头出不义之语。
For your hands are defiled with blood, And your fingers with iniquity; Your lips have spoken falsehood, Your tongue has muttered injustice.
59:4 无一人按公义告状，无一人凭真实辨白；他们都倚靠虚妄，说谎言；所怀的是毒害，所生的是罪孽；
No one sues righteously, And no one pleads in truth; They trust in vanity and speak lies; They conceive mischief and bring forth iniquity.
59:5 他们菢毒蛇蛋，结蜘蛛网；人吃这蛋必死；这蛋破裂，必出蝮蛇；
They hatch adders' eggs And weave the spider's web; He who eats of their eggs dies, And that which is crushed breaks forth into a viper.
59:6 他们所结的网不能成为衣服，所作的也不能遮盖自己；他们的作为都是罪孽的作为，手中所作的都是强暴。
Their webs will not become garments, Nor will they cover themselves with their works; Their works are works of iniquity, And an act of violence is in their palms.
59:7 他们的脚奔向邪恶，他们急速流无辜人的血；他们的意念都是罪孽的意念；在他们所经过的路上，尽是荒凉和毁坏。
Their feet run toward evil, And they hasten to shed innocent blood; Their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity; Desolation and destruction are in their highways.
59:8 平安的路，他们不知道；他们的行径中没有公平；他们使自己的路径弯曲；凡行在这路径上的，都不知道平安。
The way of peace they do not know, And there is no justice in their course; They have made their paths crooked; Whoever goes on it does not know peace.
59:9 因此公平远离我们，公义追不上我们；我们指望亮光，却是黑暗；指望光明，却行在幽暗中。
Therefore justice is far from us, And righteousness does not overtake us; We look eagerly for light, but, ah, darkness, For brightness, but we walk in gloom.
59:10 我们摸索墙壁，好像瞎子；我们摸索，如同无目之人；我们晌午绊脚，如在黄昏一样；我们在肥壮人中，就像死人一般。
We grope like blind men at the wall; We grope like those without eyes; We stumble at midday as we would at dusk; Among the prospering we are like dead men.
59:11 我们都咆哮如熊，不住哀鸣如鸽子；指望公平，却没有公平；指望救恩，救恩却远离我们。
All of us roar like bears And moan incessantly like doves; We look eagerly for justice, but there is none, For salvation, but it is far from us.
59:12 因为我们的过犯在你面前增多，我们的罪作证告我们；过犯与我们同在；至于我们的罪孽，我们都知道；
For our transgressions are multiplied before You, And our sins respond to You against us; For our transgressions are with us, And as for our iniquities, we know
what they are:
59:13 就是悖逆不认耶和华，转去不跟从我们的神；说欺压和叛逆的话，心怀谎言并且说出。
Transgressing and denying Jehovah, And turning away from our God; Speaking oppression and revolt, Conceiving and uttering from the heart words of
falsehood.
59:14 公平转而退后，公义站在远处；真实在街上跌倒，正直也不得进入。
And justice is turned back, And righteousness stands far off; For truth has stumbled in the street, And uprightness cannot come in.
59:15 真实少见，离开恶事的人反成掠物。耶和华看见没有公平，祂眼中以此为恶。
And truth is lacking, And he who turns from evil becomes plunder. And Jehovah saw it, and it was evil in His sight That there was no justice.
59:16 祂见没有一人，祂诧异无人代求；就用自己的膀臂施行拯救，以公义扶持自己。
And He saw that there was no man, And He was appalled that there was no intercessor. Therefore His arm accomplished salvation for Him, And His
righteousness sustained Him.
59:17 祂穿上公义如胸甲，头戴救恩的头盔，又穿上报仇为衣服，披上热心如外袍。
Thus He put on righteousness as a breastplate, And a helmet of salvation upon His head; And He put on the garments of vengeance for clothing And wrapped
Himself with zeal as a mantle.
59:18 祂必按人的行为施报，将恼怒加给祂的敌人，将报应加给祂的仇敌，向众海岛施行报应。
According to their dealings, so will He repay: Wrath to His adversaries, recompense to His enemies; To the coastlands He will repay with recompense.
59:19 如此，人从日落之处，必敬畏耶和华的名，从日出之地，也必敬畏祂的荣耀；敌人好像河水冲来时，耶和华的灵必高举旌旗抵挡他。
So they will fear the name of Jehovah from the west, And His glory from the rising of the sun; When the adversary comes like a flood, The Spirit of Jehovah will lift
up a standard against him.
59:20 必有一位救赎主来到锡安，来到雅各家中转离过犯的人那里；这是耶和华说的。
And a Redeemer will come to Zion, And unto those who turn from transgression in Jacob, Declares Jehovah.
59:21 耶和华说，至于我，我与他们所立的约乃是这样：我加在你身上的灵，放在你口中的话，必不离你的口，也不离你后裔与你后裔之后裔的口，从今
时直到永远；这是耶和华说的。
And as for Me, this is My covenant with them, says Jehovah: My Spirit which is upon you and My words which I have put in your mouth shall not depart from your
mouth, nor from the mouth of your seed, nor from the mouth of your seed's seed, says Jehovah, from now and forever.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 60 章
60:1 兴起发光！因为你的光已经来到，耶和华的荣耀已经升起照耀你。
Arise! Shine! For your light has come, And the glory of Jehovah has risen upon you.
716
60:2 看哪，黑暗要遮盖大地，幽暗要遮盖众民；耶和华却要升起照耀你，祂的荣耀要显在你身上。
For, behold, the darkness will cover the earth, And deep darkness the peoples; But Jehovah will rise upon you, And His glory will be seen upon you.
60:3 列国要来就你的光，君王要来就你升起的光辉。
And nations will come to your light, And kings to the brightness of your rising.
60:4 你举目向四围观看：众人都聚集，来到你这里；你的众子要从远方而来，你的众女也要被怀抱而来。
Lift up your eyes around you and see: They all gather together; they come to you; Your sons will come from far away, And your daughters will be carried on the
hip.
60:5 那时你看见就有光荣，你的心又惊怕，又宽畅，因为大海的丰富必转来归你，列国的财富必来归你。
Then you will see and you will beam, And your heart will be in awe and will swell with joy, For the abundance of the sea will be turned to you, The wealth of the
nations will come to you.
60:6 成群的骆驼，米甸和以法的小骆驼，必遮满你的地；示巴的众人都必来到，他们要带来黄金和乳香，又要宣扬耶和华当得的赞美。
A multitude of camels will cover you, The young camels of Midian and Ephah; All those from Sheba will come; They will carry gold and frankincense, And they will
bear the good news of Jehovah's praises.
60:7 基达的羊群都必聚集到你这里；尼拜约的公羊要供你使用；这些必上我的祭坛蒙悦纳，我必使我荣美的殿得荣美。
All the flocks of Kedar will be gathered together to you; The rams of Nebaioth will minister to you; They will go up acceptably upon My altar, And I will beautify the
house of My beauty.
60:8 那些如云飞来，又如鸽子飞回鸽房的，是谁呢？
Who are these who fly like a cloud, And like the doves to their dovecote?
60:9 众海岛必等候我；首先是他施的船只，将你的众子，连他们的金银，从远方一同带来，都为耶和华你神的名，又为以色列的圣者，因为祂已经使你得
了荣美。
Surely the coastlands will look eagerly for Me; And the ships of Tarshish will come first, To bring your children from afar, Their silver and their gold with them, Unto
the name of Jehovah your God And unto the Holy One of Israel; for He has beautified you.
60:10 外邦人必建筑你的城墙，他们的王必服事你；因为我虽曾在怒中击打你，现今却在恩宠中怜恤你。
And the children of foreigners will build up your walls, And their kings will minister to you; For in My wrath I struck you, But in My favor I had compassion on you.
60:11 你的城门必时常开放，昼夜不关，使人把列国的财富带来归你，并将他们的君王列队牵引而来。
And your gates will be open continually; They will not be closed day or night, So that they may bring to you the wealth of the nations And their kings being led in
procession.
60:12 那一邦那一国不服事你，就必灭亡，也必全然荒废。
For the nation and the kingdom that will not serve you will perish, and the nations will be utterly wasted.
60:13 利巴嫩的荣耀，就是松树、杉树、黄杨树，都必一同归你，为要使我圣所之地得荣美；我也要使我脚踏之处得荣耀。
The glory of Lebanon will come to you, The fir tree, the pine tree, and the box tree together, To beautify the place of My sanctuary; And I will make the place for
My feet glorious.
60:14 素来苦待你的，他们的子孙必屈身来就你；藐视你的，都要在你脚下跪拜；他们要称你为耶和华的城，为以色列圣者的锡安。
And the sons of those who afflicted you Will come bowing down to you, And all those who despised you will bow down At the soles of your feet; And they will call
you the City of Jehovah, The Zion of the Holy One of Israel.
60:15 你虽然被撇弃被恨恶，以致无人经过，我却使你变为永远的夸耀，成为累代的喜乐。
Whereas you have been forsaken and hated, So that no one would pass through you, I will make you an eternal excellency, A joy from generation to generation.
60:16 你也必吸食列国的奶，又吸食君王的奶；你便知道我耶和华是你的救主，是你的救赎主，雅各的大能者。
And you will suck the milk of nations And suck the breast of kings; Thus you will know that I, Jehovah, am your Savior And your Redeemer, the Mighty One of
Jacob.
60:17 我要拿金子代替铜，拿银子代替铁，拿铜代替木头，拿铁代替石头；并要以和平为你的官长，以公义为你的监督。
Instead of brass I will bring gold, And instead of iron I will bring silver; And instead of wood there will be brass, And instead of stones there will be iron; And I will
make peace your officers, And righteousness your rulers.
60:18 你的地上不再听见强暴的事，境内不再听见荒凉和毁灭的事；你必称你的墙为拯救，称你的门为赞美。
Violence will no longer be heard in your land, Nor desolation and destruction within your borders; But you will call your walls Salvation, And your gates Praise.
60:19 日头不再作你白昼的光，月亮也不再发光照耀你；耶和华却要作你永远的光，你的神要作你的荣美。
You will no longer have the sun for your light by day, Nor for brightness will the moon give you light; But Jehovah will be an eternal light to you, And your God your
beauty.
60:20 你的日头不再下落，你的月亮也不退缩；因为耶和华必作你永远的光，你悲哀的日子也要完毕。
Your sun will no longer go down, Nor will your moon withdraw; For Jehovah will be an eternal light to you, And the days of your mourning will be ended.
60:21 那时你的民都成为义人，永远得地为业，他们是我种的枝子，我手的工作，使我得荣美。
Then all your people will be righteous; They will possess the land forever, The branch of My planting, The works of My hands, That I may be beautified.
60:22 至小的要加增千倍，微弱的必成为强国；我耶和华要按定期速成这事。
The least one will become a thousand, And the smallest a strong nation. I, Jehovah, will hasten it in its time.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 61 章
61:1 主耶和华的灵在我身上，因为耶和华膏了我，叫我传好信息给困苦的人；祂差遣我去为伤心的人裹伤，宣扬被掳的得自由，被囚的得开释；
The Spirit of the Lord Jehovah is upon Me, Because Jehovah has anointed Me To bring good news to the afflicted; He has sent Me to bind up the wounds of the
brokenhearted, To proclaim liberty to the captives, And the opening of the eyes to those who are bound;
61:2 宣扬耶和华悦纳人的禧年，和我们神报仇的日子；安慰一切悲哀的人；
To proclaim the acceptable year of Jehovah And the day of vengeance of our God; To comfort all who mourn;
61:3 赐给锡安悲哀的人，华冠代替灰尘，喜乐油代替悲哀，赞美衣代替下沉的灵；使他们称为公义的橡树，是耶和华所栽的，叫祂得荣美。
To grant to those who mourn in Zion, To give to them a headdress instead of ashes, The oil of gladness instead of mourning, The mantle of praise instead of a
spirit of heaviness; That they may be called the terebinths of righteousness, The planting of Jehovah, that He may be glorified.
717
61:4 他们必修造古老的荒场，建立先前凄凉之处，重修荒废之城，历代凄凉之处。
And they will rebuild the ancient ruins; They will raise up the former desolations; And they will repair the cities of waste, The desolations of generation upon
generation.
61:5 外人必起来牧放你们的羊群，外邦人必作你们耕种田地的、修理葡萄园的。
And strangers will stand and feed your flocks, And the sons of the foreigner will be your plowmen and vinedressers.
61:6 你们却要称为耶和华的祭司；人必称你们为我们神的仆役。你们必吃用列国的财富，因得他们的荣耀而自夸。
But you will be called the priests of Jehovah; People will speak of you as the ministers of our God. You will eat the wealth of nations, And you will boast in their
glory.
61:7 你们必得加倍的好处，代替所受的羞辱；他们必为所得的分欢呼，代替所受的凌辱。因此他们在自己境内必得加倍的产业；永远之乐必归与他们。
Instead of your shame there will be a double portion, And instead of humiliation they will give a ringing shout for their portion. Therefore in their land they will
possess double; Eternal joy will be theirs.
61:8 因为我耶和华爱公平，恨恶抢夺和不义；我要凭信实施行报应，并要与他们立永约。
For I, Jehovah, love justice; I hate robbery with wrong; And I will faithfully give them their recompense, And I will make an eternal covenant with them.
61:9 他们的后裔必在列国中被人认识，他们的子孙在众民中也必如此；凡看见他们的，必认他们是蒙耶和华赐福的后裔。
Then their seed will be known among the nations, And their offspring in the midst of the peoples; All who see them will acknowledge them, That they are the
seed whom Jehovah has blessed.
61:10 我必因耶和华大大欢喜，我的魂必因我的神欢腾；因祂以拯救为衣给我穿上，以公义为袍给我披上，好像新郎戴上祭司的华冠，又像新妇佩戴她的
饰物。
I will rejoice greatly in Jehovah, My soul will exult in my God; For He has clothed me with the garments of salvation, He has wrapped me with the robe of
righteousness; I am like a bridegroom who wears the headdress of the priest, And like a bride who adorns herself with her jewels.
61:11 地怎样使百谷发芽，园子怎样使所种的长出，主耶和华必照样使公义和赞美在列国面前发出。
For as the earth brings forth its sprout, And as the garden causes the things sown in it to spring up, So will the Lord Jehovah cause righteousness and praise To
spring up before all the nations.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 62 章
62:1 为锡安的缘故我必不静默，为耶路撒冷的缘故我必不息声，直到她的公义如光辉发出，她的救恩如火把焚烧。
For Zion's sake I will not keep silent, And for Jerusalem's sake I will not be quiet, Until her righteousness goes forth like brightness, And her salvation like a
burning torch.
62:2 列国必见你的公义，列王必见你的荣耀；你必得新名的称呼，是耶和华亲口指定的。
And the nations will see your righteousness, And all the kings, your glory; And you will be called by a new name, Which the mouth of Jehovah will designate.
62:3 你也必在耶和华的手中作华美的冠冕，在你神的掌上作君王的冕旒。
You will also be a crown of beauty in the hand of Jehovah, And a royal turban in the palm of your God.
62:4 你必不再称为被撇弃的，你的地也不再称为荒凉的。你却要称为：我所喜悦的，你的地也必称为已婚的；因为耶和华喜悦你，你的地也必有归属。
And it will no longer be said to you, Forsaken! Nor to your land will it be said any longer, Desolate! But you will be called, My delight is in her, And your land,
Married; For Jehovah delights in you, And your land will be married.
62:5 少年人怎样娶处女，你的众民也要照样娶你；新郎怎样喜悦新妇，你的神也要照样喜悦你。
For as a young man marries a virgin, Your sons will marry you; And with the joy of the bridegroom over the bride Your God will rejoice over you.
62:6 耶路撒冷阿，我在你城墙上设立了守望者；他们整日整夜总不静默。题醒耶和华的，你们不要歇息，
Upon your walls, O Jerusalem, I have appointed watchmen; All day and all night They will never keep silent. You who remind Jehovah, Do not be dumb;
62:7 也不要让祂歇息，直等祂建立耶路撒冷，使耶路撒冷在地上成为可赞美的。
And do not give Him quiet Until He establishes And until He makes Jerusalem A praise in the earth.
62:8 耶和华指着自己的右手和大能的膀臂起誓，说，我必不再将你的五谷给你的仇敌作食物，外邦人也必不再喝你劳碌得来的新酒；
Jehovah has sworn by His right hand And by His strong arm: Surely I will never again give your grain As food for your enemies, And surely the children of the
foreigner will not drink your new wine For which you have labored;
62:9 惟有那收割的要吃，并赞美耶和华；那聚敛的要在我圣别的院内喝。
But they who have gathered it will eat it, And they will praise Jehovah, And they who have collected it will drink it In the courts of My holiness.
62:10 你们要经过，要从城门经过；预备百姓的路；要修筑，修筑大道；捡去石头；为众民高举旌旗。
Go through, go through the gates; Prepare the way for the people; Cast up, cast up the highway; Free it of stones; Raise up a standard for the people.
62:11 看哪，耶和华已宣告到地极：你们要对锡安的女子说，你的救恩来到了；祂的赏赐在祂那里，祂的报应在祂面前。
See, Jehovah has announced To the end of the earth: Say to the daughter of Zion, Your salvation is now coming; Now His reward is with Him And His
recompense before Him.
62:12 人必称他们为圣别的子民，为耶和华所救赎的民；你也必称为被追求、不被撇弃的城。
And they will call them, The holy people, The redeemed of Jehovah; And you will be called, Sought after! A city not forsaken!
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 63 章
63:1 这从以东，从波斯拉来，穿着染红衣服，装扮威严，力量广大，阔步行走的是谁呢？就是我，是那凭公义说话，以大能施行拯救的。
Who is this who comes from Edom With red-stained garments, from Bozrah? This One who is majestic in His apparel, Marching in the greatness of His strength?
It is I who speak in righteousness, Mighty to save.
63:2 你的装扮为何有红色，你的衣服为何像踹酒醡的呢？
Why are you red in apparel, And your garments like those of him who treads in the winepress?
63:3 我独自踹酒醡，众民中无一人与我同在。我在怒中将他们踹下，在烈怒中将他们践踏；他们的血溅在我衣服上，并且我染污了我一切的衣裳。
718
I have trodden the wine trough alone, And from the peoples there was no man with Me. And I trod them in My anger And trampled them in My wrath; And their
lifeblood is sprinkled on My garments, And I have stained all My apparel.
63:4 因为报仇之日在我心中，我救赎之年已经来到。
For the day of recompense was in My heart, And the year of My redemption had come.
63:5 我观看，见无人帮助；我诧异无人扶持；所以我自己的膀臂为我施行拯救，我的烈怒将我扶持。
And I looked and there was no one to help; And I was appalled that there was no one to uphold. Therefore My own arm accomplished salvation for Me, And My
wrath, it upheld Me.
63:6 我在怒中踹下众民，在烈怒中使他们沉醉，又将他们的血倒在地上。
And I trod down the peoples in My anger And made them drunk in My wrath, And I poured out their lifeblood upon the earth.
63:7 我要题起耶和华的慈爱，就是耶和华当得的赞美，是照耶和华一切所赐给我们的，并祂向以色列家所施的大恩，这恩是照祂的怜恤和丰盛的慈爱赐给
他们的。
I will make mention of the lovingkindnesses of Jehovah, The praises of Jehovah, According to all that Jehovah has bestowed on us And the great goodness
toward the house of Israel, Which He has bestowed on them according to His compassions And according to the multitude of His lovingkindnesses.
63:8 祂说，他们诚然是我的百姓，不行虚假的子孙；这样，祂就作了他们的救主。
For He said, Surely, they are My people, Children who will not deal falsely; So He became their Savior.
63:9 他们在一切苦难中，祂也同受苦难；并且祂面前的使者拯救他们；祂在自己的爱和怜悯中救赎他们，在古时的一切日子保抱他们，怀搋他们。
In all their affliction He was afflicted, And the Angel of His presence saved them; In His love and in His mercy He redeemed them, And He bore them up and
carried them All the days of old.
63:10 他们竟悖逆，使主圣别的灵忧愁；祂就转成他们的仇敌，亲自攻击他们；
But they rebelled and grieved His Spirit of holiness; Therefore He turned to become their enemy; He fought against them.
63:11 那时，祂想起古时的日子，想起摩西和祂的百姓，说，那将百姓连同祂羊群的牧人从海里领上来的在那里？那将祂圣别的灵置于他们中间的在那里？
Then He remembered the days of old, Moses and His people: Where is He who brought them up out of the sea With the shepherds of His flock? Where is He who
put in their midst His Spirit of holiness;
63:12 那使祂荣耀的膀臂在摩西的右边行动，在他们前面将水分开，要建立自己永远的名，
Who made His glorious arm Go at the right hand of Moses; Who divided the waters before them, To make for Himself a name forever;
63:13 带领他们经过深处，如马行在旷野，使他们不至绊跌的在那里？
Who led them through the depths, Like a horse in the wilderness, And they did not stumble?
63:14 耶和华的灵使他们得安息，仿佛牲畜下到山谷。你这样引导你的百姓，要建立自己荣耀的名。
Like the cattle which go down into the valley, The Spirit of Jehovah caused them to rest. Thus did You lead Your people, To make for Yourself a glorious name.
63:15 求你从天上垂顾，从你圣别华美的居所观看：你的热心和你大能的作为在那里？你热切的心肠和怜恤向我们止住了；
Look down from heaven, And see from the habitation of Your holiness and Your beauty: Where are Your zeal and Your mighty acts? The stirring of Your inward
parts And Your compassions are restrained toward me.
63:16 亚伯拉罕虽然不认识我们，以色列也不承认我们，你却是我们的父。耶和华阿，你是我们的父；从亘古以来，你的名称为我们的救赎主。
For You are our Father, Since Abraham does not know us, And Israel does not acknowledge us. You, Jehovah, are our Father; Our Redeemer from of old is Your
name.
63:17 耶和华阿，你为何使我们走错离开你的道路，使我们心里刚硬不敬畏你呢？求你为你仆人，为你产业众支派的缘故转回来。
Why, O Jehovah, do You cause us to wander from Your ways And harden our hearts so that we do not fear You? Return for the sake of Your servants, The tribes
of Your inheritance.
63:18 你的圣民不过暂时得你的圣所为业；我们的敌人已经将它践踏了。
Your holy people have possessed Your sanctuary for a little while; Our adversaries have trodden it down.
63:19 我们好像成了你从未治理的人，又像从未按你的名被称呼的人。
We have become like those over whom You have never ruled, Like those who have not been called by Your name.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 64 章
64:1 愿你裂天而降，愿山岭在你面前震动，
Oh that You would rend the heavens, that You would come down-That the mountains would shake at Your presence -
64:2 好像火烧干柴，又像火将水烧开；使你敌人知道你的名，使列国在你面前发颤！
Like fire that kindles brushwood, Like fire that causes water to boil, To make Your name known to Your adversaries, That the nations may tremble at Your
presence!
64:3 你曾行我们不能逆料的可畏之事；那时你降临，山岭在你面前震动。
When You did awesome things that we did not expect, You came down, the mountains shook at Your presence.
64:4 自古以来人未曾听见，未曾耳闻，未曾眼见，在你以外有什么神为等候祂的人行事。
For from of old, men have not heard, Nor perceived with the ear, Neither has eye seen a God besides You, Who acts for him who waits for Him.
64:5 你迎接那欢喜且行义，记念你道路的人。你曾发怒，因我们犯了罪；这景况已久，我们还能得救么？
You meet him who rejoices and does righteousness, Those who remember You in Your ways. Yes, You were angry, for we sinned; We have been in them for a
long time, and shall we be saved?
64:6 我们都像不洁净的人，所有的义都像污秽的衣服；我们都像叶子渐渐枯干，我们的罪孽好像风把我们吹去。
For all of us became like him who is unclean, And all our righteousnesses are like a soiled garment; And we all wither like a leaf, And our iniquities, like the wind,
carry us away.
64:7 无人呼求你的名，无人奋起抓住你；原来你掩面不顾我们，使我们被自己的罪孽消灭。
And there is no one who calls upon Your name, Who stirs himself up to lay hold of You; For You have hidden Your face from us And have consumed us by our
iniquities.
64:8 耶和华阿，现在你仍是我们的父；我们是泥土，你是窑匠；我们都是你手的工作。
But now, Jehovah, You are our Father; We are the clay; and You, our Potter; And all of us are the work of Your hand.
719
64:9 耶和华阿，求你不要大发震怒，也不要永远记念罪孽；求你垂顾我们，我们都是你的百姓。
Do not be angry to an extreme, O Jehovah, Neither remember iniquity forever; Look now, we pray: We all are Your people.
64:10 你圣别的城邑成了旷野，锡安成了旷野，耶路撒冷成了荒场。
Your holy cities have become a wilderness; Zion is a wilderness, Jerusalem a desolation.
64:11 我们圣别华美的殿，就是我们列祖赞美你的所在，被火焚烧；我们所喜爱的一切，都荒废了。
Our holy and beautiful house, Where our fathers praised You, Is burned with fire; And all the things that we delighted in have become a ruin.
64:12 耶和华阿，对这些事，你还要忍住么？你仍静默使我们受苦至极么？
Will You restrain Yourself from these, O Jehovah? Will You keep silent and afflict us to an extreme?
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 65 章
65:1 素来没有求我的，我让他们求得；没有寻找我的，我叫他们遇见；没有按我的名被称呼的国，我对他们说，我在这里，我在这里。
I let Myself be inquired of by those who did not ask for Me, And found by those who did not seek Me. I said, Here I am; here I am; To a nation that was not called
by My name.
65:2 我整天向那悖逆的百姓伸手招呼，他们随自己的意念行不善之道；
I have stretched out My hands all day long To a rebellious people, Who walk in a way that is not good, After their own thoughts;
65:3 这百姓时常当面惹我发怒，在园中献祭，在砖上烧香；
A people who provoke Me to anger To My face continually, Who sacrifice in gardens And burn incense upon the bricks;
65:4 在坟墓间坐着，在隐密处住宿；他们吃猪肉，器皿中有可憎之物作的汤；
Who sit among the graves And lodge overnight in the secret places; Who eat swine's flesh And the broth of abominations in their pots;
65:5 他们对人说，你站开罢，不要挨近我，因为我比你圣别。主说，这些人是我鼻中的烟，是整天烧着的火。
Who say, Keep to yourself, Do not come near me; for I am holier than you. These are smoke in My nose, A fire that burns all day.
65:6 这都写在我面前：我若不先施行报应，必不静默；我必报应在他们怀中，
It is written here before Me: I will not keep silent without first recompensing; And I will recompense, into their bosom,
65:7 将你们的罪孽和你们列祖的罪孽，都一并报应，因为这些人在山上烧香，在冈上辱骂我；所以我要把他们所行的，先量在他们怀中，这是耶和华说的。
Your iniquities and the iniquities of your fathers together, Says Jehovah, Who have burned incense upon the mountains And have scorned Me upon the hills;
Therefore I will measure their work first Into their bosom.
65:8 耶和华如此说，人从葡萄串中寻得新酒，就说，不要毁坏，因为有福在其中；我因我仆人的缘故也必照样行，不将他们全然毁灭。
Thus says Jehovah, As the new wine is found in the cluster, And someone says, Do not destroy it, For there is a blessing in it; So will I do for My servants' sake, In
order not to destroy them all.
65:9 我必从雅各中领出后裔，从犹大中领出承受我众山的；我的选民必承受为业，我的仆人要在那里居住。
And I will bring forth a seed out of Jacob, And out of Judah one who will possess My mountain; And My chosen ones will possess it, And My servants will dwell
there.
65:10 沙仑平原必成为羊群的圈，亚割谷必成为牛群躺卧之处，都为那寻求我、属我的民所得。
And Sharon will be an abode for the flock, And the valley of Achor a resting place for the herd, For My people who have sought Me.
65:11 但你们这些离弃耶和华，忘记我的圣山，给时运摆筵席，给天命盛满调和酒的，
But you who forsake Jehovah, Who forget My holy mountain, Who prepare a table to Fortune And fill vessels with drink offerings to Destiny,
65:12 我要命定你们归在刀下，你们都必屈身被杀戮；因为我呼唤，你们没有答应；我说话，你们没有听从；反倒行我眼中看为恶的，拣选我所不喜悦的。
I will destine you to the sword, And you all will bow down to the slaughter; Because I called you, but you did not answer; I spoke, but you did not listen; But you
did evil in My sight And chose that in which I did not delight.
65:13 所以主耶和华如此说，我的仆人必得吃，你们却饥饿；我的仆人必得喝，你们却干渴；我的仆人必喜乐，你们却蒙羞；
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Indeed, My servants shall eat, But you shall hunger; Indeed, My servants shall drink, But you shall thirst; Indeed, My
servants shall rejoice, But you shall be put to shame;
65:14 我的仆人必因心中高兴而欢呼，你们却因心中伤痛而哀叫，又因灵里忧伤而哀号。
Indeed, My servants shall give a ringing shout Because of a heart of joy, But you shall cry out Because of a heart of pain, And because of a broken spirit you shall
wail.
65:15 你们必留下自己的名，给我选民指着赌咒；主耶和华必杀你们，另以别名称呼祂的仆人；
And you will leave your name as a curse to My chosen ones, And the Lord Jehovah will slay you; And He will call His servants by another name,
65:16 这样，在地上给自己祝福的，必凭信实的神给自己祝福；在地上起誓的，必指信实的神起誓；因为从前的患难已经忘记，也从我眼前隐藏了。
So that he who blesses himself in the earth Will bless himself in the God of faithfulness, And he who swears in the earth Will swear by the God of faithfulness;
Because the former troubles are forgotten And because they are hidden from My sight.
65:17 看哪，我创造新天新地，从前的事不再被记念，人心也不再追想。
For I am now creating new heavens And a new earth, And the former things will not be remembered, Nor will they come up in the heart.
65:18 你们当因我所创造的永远喜乐欢腾，因为看哪，我创造耶路撒冷使人欢腾，创造其中的民叫人喜乐。
But rejoice and exult forever, In what I create, For I am now creating Jerusalem as an exultation And her people as a rejoicing.
65:19 我必因耶路撒冷欢腾，因我的百姓喜乐；其中必不再听见哭泣的声音，和哀号的声音。
And I will exult in Jerusalem And rejoice in My people; And there will no longer be heard in her The voice of weeping and the voice of crying.
65:20 其中必不再有数日夭亡的婴孩，也不再有寿数不满的老者；因为百岁死的算是孩童，百岁死的罪人算是被咒诅的。
There will no longer be in her An infant who reaches the age of only a few days Nor an old man who does not fill up his days; For the lad will die at a hundred
years of age, And the sinner, being a hundred years of age, will be cursed.
65:21 他们要建造房屋，居住其中；栽种葡萄园，吃其中的果子。
And they will build houses and inhabit them, And they will plant vineyards and eat their fruit.
65:22 他们必不建造而由别人居住；必不栽种而由别人吃；因为我民的日子必像树木的日子，我选民必充分享用亲手劳碌得来的；
They will not build and another inhabit; They will not plant and another eat; For like the days of a tree are the days of My people, And My chosen ones will enjoy
the work of their hands to the full;
720
65:23 他们必不徒然劳碌，生孩子也不遭灾害；因为都是蒙耶和华赐福之人的后裔，他们的子孙也与他们一样。
They will not labor in vain, Nor bear children unto turmoil; For they are the seed of those blessed of Jehovah, And their offspring with them.
65:24 他们尚未呼求，我就应允；正说话的时候，我就垂听。
And it will be that before they call, I will answer; Even while they are speaking, I will hear.
65:25 豺狼必与羊羔同食，狮子必吃草与牛一样，尘土必作蛇的食物；在我圣山的遍处，这些都不伤人，不害物，这是耶和华说的。
The wolf and the lamb will feed as one, And the lion will eat straw like the ox, And dust will be the serpent's food; They will not harm nor destroy In all My holy
mountain, says Jehovah.
以赛亚书 Isaiah 第 66 章
66:1 耶和华如此说，天是我的座位，地是我的脚凳；你们要在那里为我建造殿宇？那里是我安息的地方？
Thus says Jehovah, Heaven is my throne, And the earth the footstool for My feet. Where then is the house that you will build for Me, And where is the place of My
rest?
66:2 耶和华说，这一切都是我手所造的，所以就都有了；但我所看顾的，就是灵里贫穷痛悔、因我话战兢的人。
For all these things My hand has made, And so all these things have come into being, declares Jehovah. But to this kind of man will I look, to him who is poor And
of a contrite spirit, and who trembles at My word.
66:3 宰牛的好像杀人的；献羊羔的好像打折狗颈的；献素祭的好像献猪血的；烧乳香的好像颂赞偶像的。这等人拣选自己的道路，魂里喜悦他们那些可憎
恶的事；
He who kills an ox is like him who slays a man; He who sacrifices a lamb, like him who breaks a dog's neck; He who offers a meal offering is like him who offers
the blood of swine; He who burns incense is like him who blesses an idol. As surely as they have chosen their own ways, And their soul delights in their
abominations;
66:4 我也必拣选那愚弄他们的事，使他们所惧怕的临到他们；因为我呼唤，无人答应；我说话，他们不听从；反倒行我眼中看为恶的，拣选我所不喜悦的。
Just as surely I will choose what will treat them ill, And I will bring upon them what they dread; Because I called, but no one answered; I spoke, but they did not
listen; But they did evil in My sight, And chose that in which I did not delight.
66:5 你们因耶和华言语战兢的人，当听祂的话：你们的弟兄，就是恨恶你们，因我名赶出你们的，曾说，愿耶和华得荣耀，使我们得见你们的喜乐；但蒙
羞的乃是他们。
Hear the word of Jehovah, You who tremble at His word: Your brothers who hate you, Who cast you out because of My name, said, Let Jehovah be glorified So
that we may see your joy. But they will be put to shame.
66:6 有喧哗的声音出自城中！有声音出于殿中！是耶和华向祂仇敌施行报应的声音。
A voice of tumult from the city! A voice from the temple! The voice of Jehovah giving full Recompense to His enemies.
66:7 她未曾劬劳，就生产；未觉疼痛，就生出男孩。
Before she travailed, She brought forth; Before her pain came, She gave birth to a man.
66:8 一地的民岂能一日而生？一国的人岂能一时而产？因为锡安一劬劳，便生下儿女；这样的事，谁曾听见？谁曾看见？
Who has heard of such a thing? Who has seen such things? Can a land be born in one day? Or can a nation be brought forth all at once? For as soon as Zion
travailed, She brought forth her children.
66:9 耶和华说，我既使她临产，岂不使她生产呢？你的神说，我既是使她生产的，岂能使她闭胎不生呢？
Shall I bring to the point of birth and not cause to bring forth? Says Jehovah. Or shall I who cause to bring forth shut the womb? Says your God.
66:10 你们爱耶路撒冷的，都要与她一同喜乐，且要因她欢腾；你们为她悲哀的，都要与她一同乐上加乐；
Be joyful with Jerusalem and exult for her, All you who love her; Rejoice with her in joy, All you who mourn over her,
66:11 使你们在她安慰的怀中吃奶得饱，使你们得她丰盛的荣耀，犹如挤奶，满心喜乐。
So that you may nurse and be satisfied With her breasts of consolations, So that you may draw out from her and take excellent delight In the abundance of her
glory.
66:12 耶和华如此说，我要使平安延及她，好像江河；使列国的荣耀延及她，如同涨溢的河；你们要从中咂奶；你们必蒙抱在肋旁，摇弄在膝上。
For thus says Jehovah, I now am extending to her Peace like a river, And the glory of the nations Like an overflowing stream; And you will nurse, you will be
carried on the hip, And you will be bounced on the knees.
66:13 人怎样受母亲安慰，我就照样安慰你们；你们也必在耶路撒冷得安慰。
As one whom his mother comforts, So will I comfort you; And you will be comforted in Jerusalem.
66:14 你们看见，心就快乐，你们的骨头必得滋润，像嫩草一样；而且耶和华的仆人必得知祂手所行的，祂也要向仇敌发恼恨。
And you will see this, and your heart will rejoice, And your bones will flourish like new grass; And the hand of Jehovah will be made known to His servants, And
He will be indignant toward His enemies.
66:15 看哪，耶和华必在火中来临；祂的车辇像旋风，以烈怒施行报应，以火焰施行斥责；
For behold, Jehovah will come with fire, And His chariots will be like a whirlwind, To render His anger with fury And His rebuke with flames of fire.
66:16 因为耶和华在一切有血肉的人身上，必以火与刀施行审判；被耶和华所杀的必甚多。
For with fire Jehovah will execute judgment, And with His sword, upon all flesh; And those slain by Jehovah will be many.
66:17 那些分别为圣，洁净自己的，进入园内跟在其中一个人的后头，吃猪肉和可憎之物并老鼠，他们必一同灭绝，这是耶和华说的。
Those who sanctify and purify themselves for the gardens, Following after one in the midst, Eating swine's flesh And what is abominable and even mice, Will
come to an end together, declares Jehovah.
66:18 至于我，我必对他们的行为和他们的意念施行报应；时候将到，我必将各邦国各方言的人聚来；他们必来看我的荣耀。
But I-their works and their thoughts I will repay; the time is coming to gather all the nations and tongues; and they will come and see My glory.
66:19 我要在他们中间显神迹，又从他们中间把逃脱的人差到列国去，就是到他施、弗和路德那些拉弓的人那里，到土巴和雅完，到素来没有听见我名声，
没有看见我荣耀的辽远海岛；他们必将我的荣耀传扬在列国中。
And I will set a sign among them and will send those who have escaped from them unto the nations: to Tarshish, Put, and Lud, to those who draw the bow; to
Tubal and Javan, to the distant coastlands that have not heard My fame nor seen My glory; and they will declare My glory among the nations.
66:20 他们必用马、用车、用轿、用骡子、用独峰驼，将你们所有的弟兄，从列国送到我的圣山耶路撒冷，作为素祭献给耶和华，好像以色列人用洁净的
器皿把素祭奉到耶和华的殿中；这是耶和华说的。
721
And they will bring all your brothers from all the nations as a meal offering to Jehovah, on horses and in chariots and in wagons and on mules and on camels, to
My holy mountain, Jerusalem, says Jehovah, just as the children of Israel bring their meal offering in a clean vessel to the house of Jehovah.
66:21 耶和华说，我也必从他们中间取人为祭司，为利未人。
And I will also take some of them for priests and for Levites, says Jehovah.
66:22 耶和华说，我所造的新天新地怎样在我面前常存，你们的后裔和你们的名字，也必照样常存。
For as the new heavens And new earth, which I make, Remain before Me, declares Jehovah, So will your seed and your name remain.
66:23 每逢月朔、安息日，凡有血肉的必来在我面前下拜；这是耶和华说的。
And from new moon to new moon And from Sabbath to Sabbath All flesh will come To bow down before Me, says Jehovah.
66:24 他们必出去观看那些违背我之人的尸首；因为他们的虫是不死的，他们的火是不灭的；凡有血肉的，都必憎恶他们。
Then they will go forth and look On the carcasses of the men that have transgressed against Me; For their worm will not die, Nor will their fire be quenched; And
they will be an abhorrence to all flesh.