59. 雅各书 James
雅各书 James 第 1 章
1:1 神和主耶稣基督的奴仆雅各，写信给散居的十二个支派：愿你们喜乐。
James, a slave of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes in the dispersion: Rejoice!
1:2 我的弟兄们，无论何时你们落在诸般的试炼中，都要以为大喜乐；
Count it all joy, my brothers, whenever you fall into various trials,
1:3 知道你们信心所受的试验，产生忍耐。
Knowing that the proving of your faith works out endurance.
1:4 但忍耐也当成功，好使你们齐备完整，毫无缺欠。
And let endurance have its perfect work that you may be perfect and entire, lacking in nothing.
1:5 你们中间若有缺少智慧的，就当求那厚赐众人，也不斥责人的神，就必有赐给他的。
But if any one of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all liberally and does not reproach, and it will be given to him.
1:6 只是要凭着信心求，一点不疑惑；因为那疑惑的人，就像海中的波浪，被风吹动翻腾。
But let him ask in faith, doubting nothing, for he who doubts is like the surge of the sea, driven by the wind and tossed about.
1:7 这样的人，不要想从主那里得到什么；
For that man must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord;
1:8 心怀二意的人，在他一切的路上，都是摇荡不定的。
He is a double-souled man, unstable in all his ways.
1:9 卑微的弟兄升高，就该夸耀；
And let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation,
1:10 富足的降卑，也该如此，因为他必要过去，如同草上的花一样。
And the rich in his being brought low, because like a flower of the grass he will pass away.
1:11 太阳升起，热气薰烤，草就枯干，花也凋谢，美容就消没了；那富足的人在他所行的事上，也要这样衰残。
For the sun rises with its scorching heat and withers the grass, and its flower falls off, and the beauty of its appearance is destroyed; so also the rich man will fade
away in his pursuits.
1:12 忍受试炼的人有福了，因为他既受试验得了称许，就必得着生命的冠冕，这是主应许给那些爱祂之人的。
Blessed is the man who endures trial, because when he has become approved by testing, he will receive the crown of life, which He promised to those who love
Him.
1:13 人被试诱，不可说，我是被神试诱，因为神不被恶试诱，祂也不试诱人。
Let no one say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God; for God cannot be tempted of evil, and He Himself tempts no one.
1:14 但各人被试诱，乃是被自己的私欲勾引诱惑的；
But each one is tempted when he is drawn away and enticed by his own lusts;
1:15 然后私欲怀了胎，就生出罪；罪既长成，就产生死。
Then the lust, having conceived, gives birth to sin; and the sin, when it is fully grown, brings forth death.
1:16 我亲爱的弟兄们，不要看错了。
Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers.
1:17 一切美善的赐与、和各样完备的恩赐，都是从上头，从众光之父降下来的，在祂并没有变动，或转动的影儿。
All good giving and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variation or shadow cast by turning.
1:18 祂照自己的定意，用真理的话生了我们，叫我们在祂所造的万物中，成为初熟的果子。
He brought us forth by the word of truth, purposing that we might be a kind of firstfruits of His creatures.
1:19 我亲爱的弟兄们，这是你们所知道的，但你们各人要快快的听，慢慢的说，慢慢的动怒；
You know this, my beloved brothers; but let every man be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath;
1:20 因为人的忿怒并不成就神的义。
For the wrath of man does not accomplish the righteousness of God.
1:21 所以你们既脱去一切的污秽，和盈余的恶毒，就该用温柔领受那栽种的话，就是能救你们魂的话。
Therefore putting away all filthiness and the abundance of malice, receive in meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls.
1:22 只是你们要作行道者，不要单作听道者，自己欺哄自己。
And become doers of the word and not hearers only, who delude themselves.
1:23 因为人若是听道者，而不是行道者，就像人对着镜子看自己本来的面目；
Because if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, this one is like a man considering in a mirror the face he was born with;
1:24 看过走开以后，随即忘了自己是什么样子。
For he considers himself and goes away, and immediately forgets what kind of person he is.
1:25 惟有详细察看那完备自由的律法，并且时常如此的，他不是听了就忘，乃是实在行出来，就在他所行的事上必然得福。
But he who looks into the perfect law, the law of freedom, and continues in it, becoming not a forgetful hearer but a doer of the work, this one will be blessed in
his doing.
1:26 若有人自以为是虔敬的，却不勒住他的舌头，反欺骗自己的心，这人的虔敬是虚空的。
If anyone thinks himself to be religious and yet does not bridle his tongue but deceives his heart, this one's religion is vain.
1:27 在神与父面前，那清洁没有玷污的虔敬，就是看顾在患难中的孤儿寡妇，保守自己不受世界玷污。
This is pure and undefiled religion before our God and Father: to visit orphans and widows in their affliction and to keep oneself unspotted from the world.
雅各书 James 第 2 章
2:1 我的弟兄们，你们既相信我们荣耀的主耶稣基督，便不可按着外貌待人。
My brothers, do not hold the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ of glory with respect of persons.
2:2 若有一个人戴着金戒指，穿着华丽衣服，进你们的会堂去，又有一个穷人，穿着肮脏衣服也进去；
For if there comes into your synagogue a man with gold rings in splendid clothing, and there also comes in a poor man in filthy clothing,
2:3 你们就重看那穿华丽衣服的人，说，请你坐在这好位上；又对那穷人说，你站在那里，或坐在我脚凳下边。
And you look upon the one wearing the splendid clothing and say, You sit here in a good place, and to the poor man you say, You stand there, or sit under my
footstool;
2:4 这岂不是你们中间有了歧视，用恶意判断人么？
Have you not made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil reasonings?
2:5 我亲爱的弟兄们，请听，神岂不是拣选了世上贫穷的人，叫他们在信上富足，并承受祂所应许给那些爱祂之人的国么？
Listen, my beloved brothers: Did not God choose the poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which He promised to those who love Him?
2:6 你们反倒羞辱贫穷的人。那富足的人岂不是欺压你们，拉你们到法庭去么？
But you have dishonored the poor. Is it not the rich who oppress you and is it not they who drag you to the courts?
2:7 他们不是亵渎那在你们身上被称呼的尊名么？
Is it not they who blaspheme the honorable name by which you are called?
2:8 你们若照着经上“要爱邻舍如同自己”的话，成全这君尊的律法，你们就作得好了；
If indeed you are fulfilling the royal law according to the Scripture, "You shall love your neighbor as yourself,'' you do well;
2:9 但你们若按外貌待人，便是犯罪，给律法定为犯法的。
But if you respect persons, you commit sin, being convicted by the law as transgressors.
2:10 因为凡遵守全律法，却在一条上失脚的，他就是犯了众条。
For whoever keeps the whole law yet stumbles in one point has become guilty of all.
2:11 原来那说不可奸淫的，也说不可杀人。你若是不奸淫，却杀人，还是成了犯律法的。
For He who said, Do not commit adultery, also said, Do not murder. Now if you do not commit adultery, but you murder, you have become a transgressor of the
law.
2:12 你们既然要按自由的律法受审判，就该照这律法说话行事。
So speak and so do as those who are to be judged by the law of freedom.
2:13 因为那不怜悯人的，也要受无怜悯的审判；怜悯原是向审判夸胜。
For the judgment is without mercy to him who has shown no mercy; mercy triumphs over judgment.
2:14 我的弟兄们，若有人说自己有信心，却没有行为，有什么益处？难道这信心能救他么？
What is the profit, my brothers, if anyone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him?
2:15 若有弟兄或姊妹经常是赤身露体的，又缺了日用的食物，
If a brother or sister is without clothing and lacks daily food,
2:16 而你们中间有人对他们说，平平安安的去吧，愿你们穿得暖，吃得饱；却不给他们身体所需用的，有什么益处？
And any one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled, yet you do not give them the necessities of the body, what is the profit?
2:17 信心也是这样，若没有行为，就是死的。
So also faith, if it does not have works, is dead in itself.
2:18 有人会说，你有信心，我有行为；你将你没有行为的信心指给我看，我便由我的行为，将我的信心指给你看。
But someone will say, You have faith, and I have works; show me your faith without the works, and I will show you my faith by my works.
2:19 你信神只有一位；你信的不错；鬼也信，却是战惊。
You believe that God is one. You do well; the demons also believe and shudder.
2:20 虚浮的人哪，你愿意知道没有行为的信心是无用的么？
But are you willing to know, O vain man, that faith without its works is useless?
2:21 我们的祖宗亚伯拉罕，把他儿子以撒献在坛上，岂不是本于行为得称义么？
Was not Abraham our father justified by works in that he offered up Isaac his son upon the altar?
2:22 你看，信心是与他的行为同工，而且信心本于行为才得完全；
You see that faith worked together with his works, and by these works faith was perfected.
2:23 这就应验经上所说的：“亚伯拉罕信神，这就算为他的义。”他又得称为神的朋友。
And the Scripture was fulfilled which says, "And Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him as righteousness''; and he was called the friend of God.
2:24 可见人得称义是本于行为，不是单本于信。
You see that a man is justified by works and not by faith only.
2:25 妓女喇合接待使者，又放他们从别的路上出去，不也是一样本于行为得称义么？
And in like manner was not also Rahab the harlot justified by works in that she received the messengers and sent them out by a different way?
2:26 身体没有灵是死的，照样，信心没有行为也是死的。
For just as the body without the spirit is dead, so also faith without works is dead.
雅各书 James 第 3 章
3:1 我的弟兄们，不要多人作教师，因为知道我们要受更重的审判。
Do not become many teachers, my brothers, knowing that we will receive greater judgment.
3:2 我们在许多事上都有过失，若有人在话语上没有过失，他就是完全人，也能勒住全身。
For in many things we all stumble. If anyone does not stumble in word, this one is a perfect man, able to bridle the whole body as well.
3:3 我们若把嚼环放在马嘴里，叫它们服从我们，就能调动它们的全身。
Now if we put bridles into the mouths of horses that they would obey us, we direct their whole body as well.
3:4 看哪，船只虽然那么大，又被狂风催逼，无论掌舵者的意思要往那里去，都能被小小的舵调动。
Behold, the ships also, though they are so great and are driven by rough winds, are directed by a very small rudder wherever the impulse of the pilot wills.
3:5 舌头也是这样，虽是个小肢体，却能说夸大的话。看哪，多么小的火，能点着多么大的树林。
So also the tongue is a little member yet boasts great things. Behold, how great a forest so little a fire ignites!
3:6 舌头就是火，在我们百体中，是个不义的世界，污秽全身，也把生命的轮子点起来，且是给火坑的火点着的。
And the tongue is a fire; the very world of unrighteousness, the tongue is set among our members as that which contaminates the whole body and sets on fire
the course of life and is set on fire by Gehenna.
3:7 原来各类走兽、飞禽、爬物和水族的性情，都可以制伏，也已经被人的性情制伏了；
For every nature, both of beasts and of birds, both of reptiles and of creatures of the sea, is tamed and has been tamed by the human nature;
3:8 惟独舌头没有人能制伏，是不止息的恶物，满了致死的毒气。
But the tongue no one among men is able to tame; it is a restless evil, full of deadly poison.
3:9 我们用舌头颂赞那为主为父的，又用舌头咒诅那照着神样式受造的人。
With it we bless the Lord and Father, and with it we curse men, who have been made according to the likeness of God.
3:10 颂赞和咒诅从同一个口里出来，我的弟兄们，这是不应当的。
Out of the same mouth come forth blessing and cursing. These things, my brothers, ought not to be so.
3:11 泉源从同一个眼里能涌出甜水和苦水么？
Does the spring, out of the same opening, gush forth the sweet and the bitter?
3:12 我的弟兄们，无花果树能生橄榄么？葡萄树能结无花果么？咸水也不能发出甜水来。
Can a fig tree, my brothers, produce olives? Or a vine, figs? Neither can salt water produce sweet.
3:13 你们中间谁是有智慧有见识的？他就当用智慧的温柔，凭他美好的品行，显出他所作所为的。
Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show by his good manner of life his works in meekness of wisdom.
3:14 但你们心里若怀着苦毒的嫉妒和私图好争，就不要再夸口，也不要再说谎抵挡真理了。
But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your heart, do not boast and lie against the truth.
3:15 这样的智慧，不是从上头下来的，乃是属地的、属魂的、出于鬼且像鬼的。
This wisdom is not that which descends from above, but is earthly, soulish, demonic.
3:16 因为何处有嫉妒和私图好争，何处就有扰乱和各样的坏事。
For where jealousy and selfish ambition are, there disorder and every worthless practice are.
3:17 惟独从上头来的智慧，先是纯洁的，后是和平的、和蔼的、柔顺的，满有怜悯和善果，没有偏见，没有假冒。
But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, forbearing, compliant, full of mercy and good fruit, impartial, without hypocrisy.
3:18 并且义的果子，乃是由那些制造和平的人，在和平中所种植的。
And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace.
雅各书 James 第 4 章
4:1 你们中间的争战是从那里来的？斗殴是从那里来的？岂不是从你们肢体中交战的私欲来的么？
Where do wars and fightings among you come from? Are they not from this, from your pleasures that war in your members?
4:2 你们纵任贪欲，仍无所有；你们杀害嫉妒，也不能得，你们就斗殴争战。你们没有，是因为你们不求；
You lust and do not have; you murder and are jealous and are not able to obtain; you fight and make war. You do not have because you do not ask;
4:3 你们求也无所得，是因为你们妄求，为要耗费在你们的宴乐中。
You ask and do not receive because you ask evilly that you may spend it on your pleasures.
4:4 你们这些淫乱的人，岂不知与世界为友，就是与神为敌么？所以凡想要与世界为友的，就成了神的仇敌。
Adulteresses, do you not know that the friendship of the world is enmity with God? Therefore whoever determines to be a friend of the world is constituted an
enemy of God.
4:5 经上说，“祂使其居住在我们里面的那灵，恋慕以至于嫉妒。”你们想，这话是徒然的么？
Or do you think that the Scripture says in vain: "The Spirit, whom He has caused to dwell in us, longs to envy''?
4:6 但祂赐更大的恩典；所以经上说，“神敌挡狂傲的人，赐恩给谦卑的人。”
But He gives greater grace; therefore it says, "God resists the proud but gives grace to the humble.''
4:7 所以你们要服从神，抵挡魔鬼，魔鬼就必离开你们逃跑了。
Be subject therefore to God; but withstand the devil, and he will flee from you.
4:8 你们要亲近神，神就必亲近你们。有罪的人哪，要洁净你们的手。心怀二意的人哪，要纯洁你们的心。
Draw near to God, and He will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-souled!
4:9 你们要愁苦、哀恸、哭泣；你们的喜笑要变作哀恸，欢乐要变作忧郁。
Endure misery and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned into mourning, and your joy into dejection.
4:10 你们要在主面前降卑，主就必叫你们升高。
Be humbled before the Lord, and He will exalt you.
4:11 弟兄们，你们不可彼此批评；那批评弟兄，或审判弟兄的，就是批评律法，审判律法。你若审判律法，就不是行律法者，乃是审判者。
Do not speak against one another, brothers. He who speaks against a brother or judges his brother speaks against the law and judges the law. But if you judge
the law, you are not a doer of the law but a judge.
4:12 设立律法者和审判者只有一位，就是那能救人，也能灭人的。你这审判邻舍的，你是谁？
One is Lawgiver and Judge, who is able to save and destroy. But who are you who judge your neighbor?
4:13 嗐，你们说，今天或明天，我们要往某城去，在那里住一年，作买卖得利；
Come now, you who say, Today or tomorrow we will go into this or that city and spend a year there and do business and make a profit;
4:14 其实明天的事你们并不知道。你们的生命是什么？你们原是一团雾气，出现少时，随后就不见了。
Whereas you do not know the matter of tomorrow, what your life will be; for you are a vapor, which appears for a little while and then disappears.
4:15 你们倒应当说，主若愿意，我们就可以活着，也可以作这事，或作那事。
Instead you ought to say, If the Lord wills, we will both live and do this or that.
4:16 现今你们竟以张狂夸口；凡这样夸口都是恶的。
But now you boast in your arrogance; all such boasting is evil.
4:17 因此，人若知道行善，却不去行，这对他就是罪了。
Therefore to him who knows to do good and does not do it, to him it is sin.
雅各书 James 第 5 章
5:1 嗐，你们富足的人，应当为那将要临到你们的悲惨哭泣号啕。
Come now, you rich, weep, howling over your miseries, which are coming upon you!
5:2 你们的财物坏了，衣服也被虫子咬了。
Your riches have rotted and your garments have become moth-eaten;
5:3 你们的金银都锈蚀了，这锈要作见证，定你们的罪，又要像火一样，吃你们的肉。你们在末后的日子积蓄财宝。
Your gold and your silver have rusted, and their rust will be a testimony against you and will eat your flesh like fire. You have stored up treasure in the last days.
5:4 看哪，工人收割你们的田地，你们扣下他们的工钱，这工钱为他们喊冤；并且那收割之人的呼声，已经入了万军之主的耳中。
Behold, the wages of the workmen who mowed your fields, which have been withheld by you, cry out; and the cries of those who reaped have entered into the
ears of the Lord of hosts.
5:5 你们活在地上奢华宴乐；当宰杀的日子，竟养肥了你们的心。
You have lived luxuriously on the earth and have given yourselves to pleasure; you have nourished your hearts in a day of slaughter.
5:6 你们定了义人的罪，把他杀害，他没有敌挡你们。
You condemned, you murdered the righteous; he does not resist you.
5:7 所以，弟兄们，你们要恒忍，直到主的来临。看哪，农夫等候地里宝贵的出产，为此恒忍，直到得了秋雨春雨。
Therefore be long-suffering, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. Behold, the farmer eagerly awaits the precious fruit of the earth, exercising long-suffering over
it until it receives the early and late rain.
5:8 你们也当恒忍，坚固你们的心，因为主的来临近了。
You also be long-suffering; establish your hearts because the coming of the Lord has drawn near.
5:9 弟兄们，你们不要彼此埋怨，免得受审判；看哪，那审判者站在门前了。
Do not complain, brothers, against one another lest you be judged. Behold, the Judge stands before the doors.
5:10 弟兄们，你们要把那曾在主名里说话的众申言者，当作受苦和恒忍的榜样。
As an example, brothers, of suffering evil and of long-suffering, take the prophets, who spoke in the name of the Lord.
5:11 看哪，我们称那忍耐的人是有福的。你们听见过约伯的忍耐，也看见过主给他的结局，明显主是满有慈心，且有怜恤。
Behold, we call those who endured blessed. You have heard of the endurance of Job, and you have seen his end from the Lord, that the Lord is very
tenderhearted and compassionate.
5:12 我的弟兄们，最要紧的是不可起誓；不可指着天起誓，也不可指着地起誓，无论何誓都不可起；你们的话，是，就说是，不是，就说不是，免得你们
落在审判之下。
But above all things, my brothers, do not swear, neither by heaven nor by earth nor with any other oath; but let your yes be yes, and your no, no, lest you fall
under judgment.
5:13 你们中间有受苦的么？他该祷告。有愉快的么？他该歌颂。
Does anyone among you suffer evil? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise.
5:14 你们中间有病弱的么？他该请召会的长老来，在主的名里用油抹他，为他祷告。
Is anyone among you ill? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord.
5:15 信心的祈祷要救那病人，主必叫他起来；他若犯了罪，也必蒙赦免。
And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up; and if he has committed sins, it will be forgiven him.
5:16 所以你们要彼此认罪，互相代祷，使你们可以得医治。义人的祈求发动起来，是大有能力的。
Therefore confess your sins to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed. The petition of a righteous man avails much in its working.
5:17 以利亚是与我们性情相同的人，他恳切祷告，求不要降雨，雨就三年零六个月不降在地上。
Elijah was a man of like feeling with us, and he earnestly prayed that it would not rain; and it did not rain on the earth for three years and six months.
5:18 他又祷告，天就赐下雨水，地也生出土产。
And he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth sprouted forth with its fruit.
5:19 我的弟兄们，你们中间若有人受迷惑离开真理，有人使他回转，
My brothers, if any one among you is led astray from the truth and someone turns him back,
5:20 这人该知道，那叫一个罪人从他错谬的路上转回的，必救他的魂脱离死亡，也必遮盖众多的罪。
Let him know that he who turns a sinner back from the error of his way will save that one's soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins.