43. 约翰福音 John
约翰福音 John 第 1 章
1:1 太初有话，话与神同在，话就是神。
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
1:2 这话太初与神同在。
He was in the beginning with God.
1:3 万物是借着祂成的；凡已成的，没有一样不是借着祂成的。
All things came into being through Him, and apart from Him not one thing came into being which has come into being.
1:4 生命在祂里面，这生命就是人的光。
In Him was life, and the life was the light of men.
1:5 光照在黑暗里，黑暗未曾胜过光。
And the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not overcome it.
1:6 有一个人，是从神那里差来的，名叫约翰。
There came a man sent from God, whose name was John.
1:7 这人来，为要作见证，就是为光作见证，叫众人借着他可以信。
He came for a testimony that he might testify concerning the light, that all might believe through him.
1:8 他不是那光，乃是要为那光作见证。
He was not the light, but came that he might testify concerning the light.
1:9 那光是真光，来到世上，要照亮每一个人。
This was the true light which, coming into the world, enlightens every man.
1:10 祂在世界，世界也是借着祂成的，世界却不认识祂。
He was in the world, and the world came into being through Him, yet the world did not know Him.
1:11 祂到自己的地方来，自己的人却不接受祂。
He came to His own, yet those who were His own did not receive Him.
1:12 凡接受祂的，就是信入祂名的人，祂就赐他们权柄，成为神的儿女。
But as many as received Him, to them He gave the authority to become children of God, to those who believe into His name,
1:13 这等人不是从血生的，不是从肉体的意思生的，也不是从人的意思生的，乃是从神生的。
Who were begotten not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.
1:14 话成了肉体，支搭帐幕在我们中间，丰丰满满的有恩典，有实际。我们也见过祂的荣耀，正是从父而来独生子的荣耀。
And the Word became flesh and tabernacled among us (and we beheld His glory, glory as of the only Begotten from the Father), full of grace and reality.
1:15 约翰为祂作见证，喊着说，这就是我曾说，那在我以后来的，成了在我以前的，因祂原是比我先的。
John testified concerning Him and cried out, saying, This was He of whom I said, He who is coming after me has become ahead of me, because He was before
me.
1:16 从祂的丰满里我们都领受了，而且恩上加恩；
For of His fullness we have all received, and grace upon grace.
1:17 因为律法是借着摩西赐的，恩典和实际都是借着耶稣基督来的。
For the law was given through Moses; grace and reality came through Jesus Christ.
1:18 从来没有人看见神，只有在父怀里的独生子，将祂表明出来。
No one has ever seen God; the only begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, He has declared Him.
1:19 以下是约翰所作的见证：犹太人从耶路撒冷差祭司和利未人到他那里，问他说，你是谁？
And this is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent to him priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who are you?
1:20 他就承认，并不否认，承认说，我不是基督。
And he confessed and did not deny, and he confessed, I am not the Christ.
1:21 他们又问他说，那么你是谁？是以利亚么？他说，我不是。是那申言者么？他回答说，不是。
And they asked him, What then? Are you Elijah? And he said, I am not. Are you the Prophet? And he answered, No.
1:22 于是他们说，你到底是谁？叫我们好回复差我们来的人。关于你自己，你怎么说？
They said then to him, Who are you, that we may give an answer to those who sent us? What do you say about yourself?
1:23 他说，我就是那在旷野里呼喊者的声音：“修直主的道路！”正如申言者以赛亚所说的。
He said, I am a voice of one crying in the wilderness, "Make straight the way of the Lord!'' as Isaiah the prophet said.
1:24 那些奉差遣来的，是法利赛人。
And those who had been sent were of the Pharisees.
1:25 他们就问他说，你既不是基督，不是以利亚，也不是那申言者，那你为什么施浸？
And they asked him and said to him, Why then are you baptizing if you are not the Christ nor Elijah nor the Prophet?
1:26 约翰回答说，我是在水里施浸，但有一位站在你们中间，是你们不认识的，
John answered them, saying, I baptize in water; but among you stands One whom you do not know,
1:27 就是那在我以后来的，我就是给祂解鞋带也不配。
He who is coming after me, the thong of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie.
1:28 这些事是在约但河外的伯大尼，约翰施浸的地方发生的。
These things took place in Bethany across the Jordan, where John was baptizing.
1:29 次日，约翰看见耶稣向他走来，就说，看哪，神的羔羊，除去世人之罪的！
The next day he saw Jesus coming to him and said, Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world!
1:30 这就是我曾说，有一个人在我以后来，成了在我以前的，因祂原是比我先的。
This is He of whom I said, A man is coming after me who has become ahead of me, because He was before me.
1:31 我先前不认识祂，但为了叫祂显明给以色列人，所以我来在水里施浸。
And I did not know Him, but in order that He might be manifested to Israel, for this reason I came baptizing in water.
1:32 约翰又作见证说，我曾看见那灵，仿佛鸽子从天降下，停留在祂身上。
And John testified, saying, I beheld the Spirit descending as a dove out of heaven, and He abode upon Him.
1:33 我先前不认识祂，只是那差我来在水里施浸的，对我说，你看见那灵降下来，停留在谁身上，谁就是在圣灵里施浸的。
And I did not know Him, but He who sent me to baptize in water, He said to me, He upon whom you see the Spirit descending and abiding upon Him, this is He
who baptizes in the Holy Spirit.
1:34 我看见了，就见证这是神的儿子。
And I have seen and have testified that this is the Son of God.
1:35 再次日，约翰同他两个门徒又站在那里。
Again the next day John was standing with two of his disciples,
1:36 他见耶稣行走，就说，看哪，神的羔羊！
And looking at Jesus walking, he said, Behold, the Lamb of God!
1:37 那两个门徒听见他所说的，就跟从了耶稣。
And the two disciples heard him speak this, and they followed Jesus.
1:38 耶稣转过身来，看见他们跟着，就问他们说，你们寻求什么？他们说，拉比，你住在那里？（拉比翻出来，就是夫子。）
And Jesus, turning and beholding them following, said to them, What are you seeking? And they said to Him, Rabbi (which translated means Teacher), where are
You staying?
1:39 耶稣说，你们来看。他们就去看祂住在那里，那一天便与祂同住，那时约是上午十时。
He said to them, Come, and you will see. They went therefore and saw where He was staying, and they stayed with Him that day; it was about the tenth hour.
1:40 听见约翰的话，跟从耶稣的那两个人中，一个是西门彼得的兄弟安得烈。
One of the two who heard this from John and followed Him was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother.
1:41 他先找着自己的哥哥西门，对他说，我们遇见弥赛亚了。（弥赛亚翻出来，就是基督。）
He first found his own brother Simon and said to him, We have found the Messiah (which translated means Christ).
1:42 于是领他到耶稣那里。耶稣看着他说，你是约翰的儿子西门，你要称为矶法。（矶法翻出来，就是彼得。）
He led him to Jesus. Looking at him, Jesus said, You are Simon, the son of John; you shall be called Cephas (which is interpreted, Peter).
1:43 又次日，耶稣想要往加利利去，遇见腓力，就对他说，跟从我。
The next day He wanted to go forth into Galilee, and He found Philip. And Jesus said to him, Follow Me.
1:44 这腓力是伯赛大人，是安得烈和彼得那城的人。
Now Philip was from Bethsaida, of the city of Andrew and Peter.
1:45 腓力找着拿但业，对他说，摩西在律法上所写，和众申言者所记的那一位，我们遇见了，就是约瑟的儿子拿撒勒人耶稣。
Philip found Nathanael and said to him, We have found Him of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, wrote, Jesus, the son of Joseph, from Nazareth.
1:46 拿但业对他说，拿撒勒还能出什么好的么？腓力说，你来看。
And Nathanael said to him, Can anything good be from Nazareth? Philip said to him, Come and see.
1:47 耶稣看见拿但业向祂走来，就指着他说，看哪，这是个真以色列人，他心里是没有诡诈的。
Jesus saw Nathanael coming to Him and said concerning him, Behold, truly an Israelite, in whom there is no guile!
1:48 拿但业对祂说，你怎么认识我？耶稣回答说，腓力还没有招呼你，你在无花果树底下，我就看见你了。
Nathanael said to Him, How do You know me? Jesus answered and said to him, Before Philip called you, while you were under the fig tree, I saw you.
1:49 拿但业说，拉比，你是神的儿子，你是以色列的王。
Nathanael answered Him, Rabbi, You are the Son of God; You are the King of Israel.
1:50 耶稣说，因我对你说，我看见你在无花果树底下，你就信了么？你将要看见比这更大的事。
Jesus answered and said to him, Is it because I told you that I saw you under the fig tree that you believe? You shall see greater things than these.
1:51 又对他说，我实实在在的告诉你们，你们将要看见天开了，神的使者上去下来在人子身上。
And He said to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, You shall see heaven opened and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man.
约翰福音 John 第 2 章
2:1 第三日，在加利利的迦拿有娶亲的筵席，耶稣的母亲在那里。
And the third day a wedding took place in Cana of Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there.
2:2 耶稣和祂的门徒也被请去赴婚筵。
And Jesus also was invited, as well as His disciples, to the wedding.
2:3 酒用尽了，耶稣的母亲对祂说，他们没有酒了。
And when the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to Him, They have no wine.
2:4 耶稣对她说，妇人，我与你何干？我的时候还没有到。
And Jesus said to her, Woman, what do I have in this that concerns you? My hour has not yet come.
2:5 祂母亲对仆人说，祂告诉你们什么，你们就作什么。
His mother said to the servants, Whatever He says to you, do.
2:6 照犹太人洁净的规矩，有六口石缸摆在那里，每口可盛两三桶水。
Now there were six stone waterpots lying there, according to the Jews' rite of purification, holding two or three measures each.
2:7 耶稣对仆人说，把缸倒满了水。他们就倒满了，直到缸口。
Jesus said to them, Fill the waterpots with water. And they filled them up to the brim.
2:8 耶稣又说，现在舀出来，送给管筵席的。他们就送了去。
And He said to them, Draw some out now and take it to the master of the feast. And they took it to him.
2:9 管筵席的尝了那水变的酒，并不知道是那里来的，只有舀水的仆人知道。管筵席的便叫新郎来，
And when the master of the feast tasted the water which had become wine and did not know where it came from, though the servants who had drawn the water
knew, the master of the feast called the bridegroom
2:10 对他说，人都是先摆上好酒，等客人喝足了，才摆上次的，你倒把好酒留到如今。
And said to him, Every man sets out the good wine first, and when they have drunk freely, then that which is worse; you have kept the good wine until now.
2:11 这是耶稣所行的头一件神迹，是在加利利的迦拿行的，显出祂的荣耀来，祂的门徒就信入了祂。
This beginning of signs Jesus performed in Cana of Galilee and manifested His glory, and His disciples believed into Him.
2:12 这事以后，耶稣与祂的母亲、兄弟和门徒，都下迦百农去，在那里住了不多几日。
After this He went down to Capernaum, He and His mother and His brothers and His disciples; and they remained there not many days.
2:13 犹太人的逾越节近了，耶稣就上耶路撒冷去。
And the Passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
2:14 祂看见殿里有卖牛羊鸽子的，并有兑换银钱的人坐在那里，
And He found in the temple those selling oxen and sheep and doves, and the moneychangers sitting there.
2:15 就拿绳子作成鞭子，把众人连羊带牛都赶出殿去，倒出兑换银钱之人的钱币，推翻他们的桌子。
And having made a whip out of cords, He drove them all out of the temple, as well as the sheep and the oxen, and He poured out the money of the
moneychangers and overturned their tables.
2:16 又对卖鸽子的说，把这些东西从这里拿走，不要将我父的家，当作买卖的场所。
And to those who were selling the doves He said, Take these things away from here; do not make My Father's house a house of merchandise.
2:17 祂的门徒就想起经上记着：“我为你的家，心里焦急，如同火烧。”
His disciples remembered that it was written, "The zeal of Your house shall devour Me.''
2:18 于是犹太人问祂说，你既作这些事，还显什么神迹给我们看？
The Jews then answered and said to Him, What sign do you show us, seeing that you do these things?
2:19 耶稣回答说，你们拆毁这殿，我三日内要将它建立起来。
Jesus answered and said to them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.
2:20 犹太人便说，这殿是四十六年才造成的，你三日内就将它建立起来么？
Then the Jews said, This temple was built in forty-six years, and You will raise it up in three days?
2:21 但耶稣是以祂的身体为殿说的。
But He spoke of the temple of His body.
2:22 所以到祂从死人中复活以后，祂的门徒就想起祂说过这话，便信了圣经和耶稣所说的话。
When therefore He was raised from the dead, His disciples remembered that He had said this, and they believed the Scripture and the word which Jesus had
spoken.
2:23 当耶稣在耶路撒冷过逾越节的时候，有许多人看见祂所行的神迹，就信入了祂的名。
Now when He was in Jerusalem at the Passover, during the feast, many believed into His name when they saw the signs which He did.
2:24 耶稣却不将自己信托他们，因为祂知道万人，
But Jesus Himself did not entrust Himself to them, for He knew all men,
2:25 也用不着谁见证人怎样，因祂知道在人里面的是什么。
And because He did not need anyone to testify concerning man, for He Himself knew what was in man.
约翰福音 John 第 3 章
3:1 但有一个法利赛人，名叫尼哥底母，是犹太人的官。
But there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the JEWS.
3:2 这人夜里来到耶稣那里，对祂说，拉比，我们知道你是从神那里来作教师的，因为你所行的这些神迹，若没有神同在，无人能行。
This one came to Him by night and said to Him, Rabbi, we know that You have come from God as a teacher, for no one can do these signs that You do unless
God is with him.
3:3 耶稣回答说，我实实在在的告诉你，人若不重生，就不能见神的国。
Jesus answered and said to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, Unless one is born anew, he cannot see the kingdom of God.
3:4 尼哥底母说，人已经老了，如何能重生？岂能再进母腹生出来么？
Nicodemus said to Him, How can a man be born when he is old? He cannot enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born, can he?
3:5 耶稣回答说，我实实在在的告诉你，人若不是从水和灵生的，就不能进神的国。
Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, Unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.
3:6 从肉体生的，就是肉体；从那灵生的，就是灵。
That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.
3:7 我说，你们必须重生，你不要以为希奇。
Do not marvel that I said to you, You must be born anew.
3:8 风随着意思吹，你听见风的响声，却不晓得从那里来，往那里去；凡从那灵生的，就是这样。
The wind blows where it wills, and you hear the sound of it, but you do not know where it comes from and where it goes; so is everyone who is born of the Spirit.
3:9 尼哥底母问祂说，怎能有这事？
Nicodemus answered and said to Him, How can these things be?
3:10 耶稣回答说，你是以色列的教师，还不明白这事么？
Jesus answered and said to him, You are a teacher of Israel, and you do not know these things?
3:11 我实实在在的告诉你，我们所说的，是我们知道的，我们所见证的，是我们见过的，你们却不领受我们的见证。
Truly, truly, I say to you, We speak that which we know and testify of that which we have seen, and yet you do not receive our testimony.
3:12 我对你们说地上的事，你们尚且不信，若对你们说天上的事，你们如何能信？
If I told you of the things on earth and you do not believe, how will you believe if I tell you of the things in heaven?
3:13 除了从天降下仍旧在天的人子，没有人升过天。
And no one has ascended into heaven, but He who descended out of heaven, the Son of Man, who is in heaven.
3:14 摩西在旷野怎样举蛇，人子也必照样被举起来，
And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up,
3:15 叫一切信入祂的都得永远的生命。
That every one who believes into Him may have eternal life.
3:16 神爱世人，甚至将祂的独生子赐给他们，叫一切信入祂的，不至灭亡，反得永远的生命。
For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that every one who believes into Him would not perish, but would have eternal life.
3:17 因为神差祂的儿子到世上来，不是要定世人的罪，乃是要叫世人藉祂得救。
For God did not send the Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world might be saved through Him.
3:18 信入祂的人，不被定罪；不信的人，罪已经定了，因为他不信入神独生子的名。
He who believes into Him is not condemned; but he who does not believe has been condemned already, because he has not believed into the name of the only
begotten Son of God.
3:19 光来到世上，世人因自己的行为是恶的，不爱光倒爱黑暗，定他们的罪就是在此。
And this is the condemnation, that the light has come into the world, and men loved the darkness rather than the light, for their works were evil.
3:20 凡作恶的便恨光，并不来就光，恐怕他的行为受责备。
For every one who practices evil hates the light, and does not come to the light, lest his works be reproved.
3:21 但行真理的必来就光，要显明他的行为是在神里面行的。
But he who does the truth comes to the light, that his works may be manifested that they are wrought in God.
3:22 这事以后，耶稣和门徒到了犹太地，同他们在那里居住并施浸。
After these things, Jesus and His disciples came into the land of Judea, and there He spent some time with them and baptized.
3:23 约翰在靠近撒冷的哀嫩也施浸，因为那里水多，众人都去受浸。
And John also was baptizing in Aenon near Salim, because there was much water there; and people came and were baptized;
3:24 那时约翰还没有下在监里。
For John had not yet been thrown into prison.
3:25 约翰的门徒，和一个犹太人辩论洁净的礼。
There arose therefore a questioning on the part of John's disciples with a Jew about purification.
3:26 他们来到约翰那里，对他说，拉比，从前同你在约但河外，你所见证的那位，看哪，祂正在施浸，众人都往祂那里去了。
And they came to John and said to him, Rabbi, He who was with you across the Jordan, of whom you have testified, behold, He is baptizing and all are coming
to Him.
3:27 约翰回答说，若不是从天上赐的，人就不能得到什么。
John answered and said, A man cannot receive anything unless it has been given to him from heaven.
3:28 我曾说，我不是基督，不过是奉差遣在祂前面来的，你们自己可以给我作见证。
You yourselves testify of me that I said, I am not the Christ, but I have been sent before Him.
3:29 娶新妇的，就是新郎；新郎的朋友站着听祂，因着新郎的声音就欢喜快乐；所以我这喜乐满足了。
He who has the bride is the bridegroom; but the friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices with joy because of the bridegroom's voice. This
joy of mine therefore is made full.
3:30 祂必扩增，我必衰减。
He must increase, but I must decrease.
3:31 那从上头来的，是在万有之上；那出于地的，是属于地，他所说的，也是属于地。那从天上来的，是在万有之上。
He who comes from above is above all; he who is from the earth is of the earth and speaks out of the earth. He who comes from heaven is above all.
3:32 祂将所见所闻的见证出来，只是没有人领受祂的见证。
What He has seen and heard, of this He testifies, and no one receives His testimony.
3:33 那领受祂见证的，就盖上印，证明神是真的。
He who receives His testimony has sealed that God is true.
3:34 神所差来的，就说神的话，因为祂赐那灵是没有限量的。
For He whom God has sent speaks the words of God, for He gives the Spirit not by measure.
3:35 父爱子，已将万有交在祂手里。
The Father loves the Son and has given all into His hand.
3:36 信入子的人有永远的生命；不信从子的人不得见生命，神的震怒却停留在他身上。
He who believes into the Son has eternal life; but he who disobeys the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides upon him.
约翰福音 John 第 4 章
4:1 那时，主知道法利赛人听见祂收门徒并施浸比约翰还多，
When therefore the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John
4:2 （其实不是耶稣亲自施浸，乃是祂的门徒施浸，）
(Although Jesus Himself did not baptize, but rather His disciples),
4:3 祂就离开犹太，又往加利利去，
He left Judea and went away again into Galilee.
4:4 必须经过撒玛利亚。
And He had to pass through Samaria.
4:5 于是到了撒玛利亚的一座城，名叫叙加，靠近雅各给他儿子约瑟的那块地，
So He came to a city of Samaria called Sychar, near the piece of land that Jacob gave to Joseph his son;
4:6 在那里有雅各井。耶稣因行路疲累，就这样坐在井旁，那时约是午后六时。
And Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied from the journey, sat thus by the well; it was about the sixth hour.
4:7 有一个撒玛利亚妇人来打水，耶稣对她说，请给我水喝。
There came a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give Me something to drink.
4:8 原来祂的门徒进城买食物去了。
For His disciples had gone away into the city to buy food.
4:9 撒玛利亚妇人对祂说，你既是犹太人，怎么向我一个撒玛利亚妇人要水喝？（原来犹太人和撒玛利亚人没有来往。）
The Samaritan woman then said to Him, How is it that You, being a Jew, ask for a drink from me, who am a Samaritan woman? (For Jews have no dealings with
Samaritans.)
4:10 耶稣回答说，你若知道神的恩赐，和对你说请给我水喝的是谁，你必早求祂，祂也必早给了你活水。
Jesus answered and said to her, If you knew the gift of God and who it is who says to you, Give Me a drink, you would have asked Him, and He would have
given you living water.
4:11 妇人说，先生，你没有打水的器具，井又深，从那里得活水？
The woman said to Him, Sir, You have no bucket, and the well is deep; where then do You get this living water?
4:12 我们的祖宗雅各，将这井给了我们，他自己和他的子孙并牲畜，也都喝这井里的水，难道你比他还大么？
Are You greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well and drank of it himself, as well as his sons and his cattle?
4:13 耶稣回答说，凡喝这水的，还要再渴；
Jesus answered and said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water shall thirst again,
4:14 人若喝我所赐的水，就永远不渴；我所赐的水，要在他里面成为泉源，直涌入永远的生命。
But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him shall by no means thirst forever; but the water that I will give him will become in him a fountain of water
gushing up into eternal life.
4:15 妇人说，先生，请把这水赐给我，叫我不渴，也不用来这里打水。
The woman said to Him, Sir, give me this water so that I will not thirst nor come here to draw.
4:16 耶稣说，你去叫你的丈夫，然后到这里来。
He said to her, Go, call your husband and come here.
4:17 妇人回答说，我没有丈夫。耶稣说，你说没有丈夫，是不错的；
The woman answered and said, I do not have a husband. Jesus said to her, You have well said, I do not have a husband,
4:18 因为你有过五个丈夫，现在有的，并不是你的丈夫，你所说的是真的。
For you have had five husbands, and the one you now have is not your husband; this you have said truly.
4:19 妇人说，先生，我看出你是申言者。
The woman said to Him, Sir, I perceive that You are a prophet.
4:20 我们的祖宗在这山上敬拜，你们倒说，敬拜的地方必须在耶路撒冷。
Our fathers worshipped in this mountain, yet you say that in Jerusalem is the place where men must worship.
4:21 耶稣说，妇人，你当信我，时候将到，那时你们敬拜父，不在这山上，也不在耶路撒冷。
Jesus said to her, Woman, believe Me, an hour is coming when neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father.
4:22 你们敬拜你们所不知道的，我们敬拜我们所知道的，因为救恩是从犹太人出来的。
You worship that which you do not know; we worship that which we know, for salvation is of the Jews.
4:23 时候将到，如今就是了，那真正敬拜父的，要在灵和真实里敬拜祂，因为父寻找这样敬拜祂的人。
But an hour is coming, and it is now, when the true worshippers will worship the Father in spirit and truthfulness, for the Father also seeks such to worship Him.
4:24 神是灵；敬拜祂的，必须在灵和真实里敬拜。
God is Spirit, and those who worship Him must worship in spirit and truthfulness.
4:25 妇人说，我知道弥赛亚（就是那称为基督的）要来；祂来了，必将一切的事都告诉我们。
The woman said to Him, I know that Messiah is coming (He who is called Christ); when He comes, He will declare all things to us.
4:26 耶稣说，这和你说话的就是祂。
Jesus said to her, I, who speak to you, am He.
4:27 正在这时候，耶稣的门徒回来，就希奇祂同一个妇人说话；只是没有人说，你寻求什么？或说，你为什么同她说话？
And at this point His disciples came, and they marveled that He was speaking with a woman; yet no one said, What are You seeking? or, Why are You speaking
with her?
4:28 那妇人就留下她的水罐子，往城里去，对众人说，
Then the woman left her waterpot and went away into the city, and said to the people,
4:29 你们来看，有一个人将我素来所行的一切事，都给我说出来了，这岂不就是基督么？
Come, see a man who told me all that I have done. Is this not the Christ?
4:30 众人就出城往耶稣那里去。
They went out of the city and came to Him.
4:31 这其间，门徒求耶稣说，拉比，请吃。
In the meantime, the disciples urged Him, saying, Rabbi, eat.
4:32 祂对他们说，我有食物吃，是你们不知道的。
But He said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know about.
4:33 门徒就彼此说，莫非有人拿什么给祂吃了？
The disciples therefore said to one another, Has anyone brought Him anything to eat?
4:34 耶稣说，我的食物就是实行差我来者的旨意，作成祂的工。
Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of Him who sent Me and to finish His work.
4:35 你们岂不是说，到收割的时候，还有四个月么？看哪，我告诉你们，举目向田观看，庄稼已经发白，可以收割了。
Do you not say that there are yet four months and then the harvest comes? Behold, I tell you, Lift up your eyes and look on the fields, for they are already white for
harvest.
4:36 收割的人得工价，收积五谷归入永远的生命，叫撒种的和收割的一同欢乐。
He who reaps receives wages and gathers fruit unto eternal life, in order that he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together.
4:37 那人撒种，这人收割，这话可见是真的。
For in this the saying is true, One sows and another reaps.
4:38 我差你们去收你们所没有劳苦的，别人劳苦，你们享受他们所劳苦的。
I sent you to reap that for which you have not labored; others have labored, and you have entered into their labor.
4:39 那城里有好些撒玛利亚人信入了耶稣，因为那妇人作见证说，祂将我素来所行的一切事，都给我说出来了。
And many of the Samaritans from that city believed into Him because of the word of the woman who testified, He told me all that I have done.
4:40 于是撒玛利亚人来到耶稣跟前，求祂同他们住下，祂便在那里住了两天。
So when the Samaritans came to Him, they asked Him to remain with them, and He remained there two days.
4:41 因耶稣的话，信的人就更多了。
And many more believed because of His word.
4:42 他们便对妇人说，现在我们信，不再是因你的话；因为我们亲自听见了，知道这位真是世人的救主。
And they said to the woman, It is no longer because of your speaking that we believe, for we ourselves have heard and know that this One is truly the Savior of
the world.
4:43 过了那两天，耶稣就离开那里，往加利利去。
And after the two days He went forth from there into Galilee,
4:44 因为耶稣自己作过见证说，申言者在本地是不受尊敬的。
For Jesus Himself testified that a prophet has no honor in his own country.
4:45 到了加利利，加利利人因为看见祂在耶路撒冷过节时所行的一切事，就接待祂，因为他们也曾上去过节。
Then when He came into Galilee, the Galileans received Him, having seen all that He did in Jerusalem at the feast, for they also went to the feast.
4:46 耶稣又到了加利利的迦拿，就是祂从前变水为酒的地方。有一个大臣，他的儿子在迦百农患病。
He then came again to Cana of Galilee, where He had made the water wine. And there was a certain royal official, whose son was sick in Capernaum.
4:47 这人听见耶稣从犹太到了加利利，就去到祂那里，求祂下去医治他的儿子，因为他儿子快要死了。
When he heard that Jesus had come out of Judea into Galilee, he went to Him and asked Him to come down and heal his son, for he was about to die.
4:48 耶稣就对他说，若不看见神迹奇事，你们总是不信。
Jesus therefore said to him, Unless you see signs and wonders, you will by no means believe.
4:49 那大臣对祂说，先生，求你趁着我的孩子还没有死，就下去。
The royal official said to Him, Sir, come down before my little child dies.
4:50 耶稣对他说，去吧，你的儿子活了。那人信耶稣对他所说的话，就去了。
Jesus said to him, Go, your son lives. The man believed the word which Jesus said to him and went his way.
4:51 正下去的时候，他的奴仆迎见他，说他的孩子活了。
And as he was now going down, his slaves met him and said that his child was living.
4:52 他就向他们查问，孩子是什么时候见好的。他们说，昨天午后七时，烧就退了。
So he asked them the hour in which he got better. They said then to him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.
4:53 父亲便知道，那正是耶稣对他说你儿子活了的时候，他和他全家就都信了。
Then the father knew that it was in that hour in which Jesus said to him, Your son lives; and he believed, he and his whole house.
4:54 这第二件神迹，是耶稣从犹太来到加利利以后行的。
Again, this second sign Jesus performed when He came out of Judea into Galilee.
约翰福音 John 第 5 章
5:1 这事以后，到了犹太人的一个节期，耶稣就上耶路撒冷去。
After these things there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
5:2 在耶路撒冷靠近羊门有一个池子，希伯来话叫作毕士大，旁边有五个廊子。
Now there is in Jerusalem near the sheepgate a pool, which is called in Hebrew Bethesda, having five porticoes.
5:3 里面躺着许多病弱的、瞎眼的、瘸腿的、枯干的，等候水动。
In these lay a multitude of those who were sick, blind, lame, and withered, waiting for the moving of the water.
5:4 因为有天使时常下池子搅动那水，水动之后，谁先下去，无论患什么病，都会痊愈。
For an angel went down from time to time in the pool and stirred up the water; the first then to step in after the stirring up of the water was made well of whatever
disease he was being held by.
5:5 在那里有一个人，病了三十八年。
And a certain man was there, who had been thirty-eight years in his sickness.
5:6 耶稣看见他躺着，知道他已经病了许久，就问他说，你想要痊愈么？
When Jesus saw this one lying there and knew that he had already been a long time in that condition, He said to him, Do you want to get well?
5:7 病人回答说，先生，水动的时候，没有人把我放在池子里；我正去的时候，总有别人比我先下去。
The sick man answered Him, Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up; but while I am coming, another steps down before me.
5:8 耶稣对他说，起来，拿你的褥子走吧。
Jesus said to him, Rise, take up your mat and walk.
5:9 那人立即痊愈，就拿起褥子走了。
And immediately the man became well, and he took up his mat and walked. Now it was the Sabbath on that day;
5:10 那天是安息日，所以犹太人对那治好的人说，今天是安息日，你拿褥子是不可的。
Therefore the Jews said to the one who had been healed, It is the Sabbath, and it is not lawful for you to take up your mat.
5:11 他却回答说，那使我痊愈的对我说，拿你的褥子走吧。
But he answered them, He who made me well, that One said to me, Take up your mat and walk.
5:12 他们问他说，那对你说拿褥子走的人是谁？
They asked him, Who is the man who said to you, Take up your mat and walk?
5:13 那治好的人不知道是谁，因为那地方人多，耶稣已经退避了。
But he who had been healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn, there being a crowd in that place.
5:14 这事以后，耶稣在殿里遇见他，对他说，看哪，你已经痊愈了，不要再犯罪，恐怕你遭遇的更加厉害。
After these things Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, Behold, you have become well; sin no more so that nothing worse happens to you.
5:15 那人就去告诉犹太人，使他痊愈的是耶稣。
The man went away and told the Jews that Jesus was the One who made him well.
5:16 所以犹太人逼迫耶稣，想要杀祂，因为祂在安息日作了这事。
And because of this the Jews persecuted Jesus and sought to kill Him, because He did these things on the Sabbath.
5:17 耶稣就对他们说，我父作工直到如今，我也作工。
But Jesus answered them, My Father is working until now, and I also am working.
5:18 所以犹太人就越发想要杀祂，因祂不但犯了安息日，并且称神为祂的父，将自己与神当作平等。
Because of this therefore the Jews sought all the more to kill Him, because He not only broke the Sabbath but also called God His own Father, making Himself
equal with God.
5:19 耶稣对他们说，我实实在在的告诉你们，子从自己不能作什么，惟有看见父所作的，子才能作；父所作的事，子也照样作。
Then Jesus answered and said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, The Son can do nothing from Himself except what He sees the Father doing, for whatever that
One does, these things the Son also does in like manner.
5:20 父爱子，将自己所作的一切事指示祂，还要将比这更大的事指示祂，叫你们希奇。
For the Father loves the Son and shows Him all things that He Himself is doing; and greater works than these He will show Him that you may marvel.
5:21 父怎样叫死人起来，赐他们生命，子也照样随自己的意思赐人生命。
For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whom He wills.
5:22 父也不审判什么人，乃将审判的事全交与子，
For neither does the Father judge anyone, but He has given all judgment to the Son,
5:23 叫人都尊敬子，如同尊敬父一样。不尊敬子的，就是不尊敬差子来的父。
In order that all may honor the Son even as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent Him.
5:24 我实实在在的告诉你们，那听我话，又信差我来者的，就有永远的生命，不至于受审判，乃是已经出死入生了。
Truly, truly, I say to you, He who hears My word and believes Him who sent Me has eternal life, and does not come into judgment but has passed out of death
into life.
5:25 我实实在在的告诉你们，时候将到，如今就是了，死人要听见神儿子的声音，听见的人就要活了。
Truly, truly, I say to you, An hour is coming, and it is now, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live.
5:26 因为父怎样在自己里面有生命，就赐给子也照样在自己里面有生命；
For just as the Father has life in Himself, so He gave to the Son to also have life in Himself;
5:27 并且因为祂是人子，就赐给祂行审判的权柄。
And He gave Him authority to execute judgment because He is the Son of Man.
5:28 你们不要把这事看作希奇，因为时候将到，凡在坟墓里的，都要听见祂的声音，就出来；
Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming in which all in the tombs will hear His voice
5:29 行善的归到生命的复活，作恶的归到审判的复活。
And will come forth: those who have done good, to the resurrection of life; and those who have practiced evil, to the resurrection of judgment.
5:30 我从自己不能作什么；我怎么听见，就怎么审判；我的审判也是公平的，因为我不寻求自己的意思，只寻求那差我来者的意思。
I can do nothing from Myself; as I hear, I judge, and My judgment is just, because I do not seek My own will but the will of Him who sent Me.
5:31 我若为自己作见证，我的见证就不真。
If I testify concerning Myself, My testimony is not true.
5:32 另有一位为我作见证，我也知道他为我作的见证是真的。
There is another who testifies concerning Me, and I know that the testimony which he testifies concerning Me is true.
5:33 你们曾差人到约翰那里，他为真理作过见证。
You have sent people to John, and he has testified to the truth.
5:34 其实我不接受从人来的见证；然而我说这些话，为要叫你们得救。
But it is not from man that I receive My testimony, but I say these things that you may be saved.
5:35 约翰是点着且发亮的灯，你们情愿暂时在他的光中欢腾。
He was the lamp that was burning and shining, and you were willing to exult for a while in his light.
5:36 但我有比约翰更大的见证，因为父交给我要我完成的工，就是我所作的这些工，为我作见证，我是父所差来的。
But I have the testimony which is greater than that of John, for the works which the Father has given Me to finish, the works themselves which I do, testify
concerning Me that the Father has sent Me.
5:37 差我来的父，也为我作过见证。你们从来没有听过祂的声音，也没有见过祂的形状，
And the Father who sent Me, He has testified concerning Me. You have neither heard His voice at any time, nor have you seen His form,
5:38 并且你们没有祂的话住在你们里面，因为祂所差来的这一位，你们不信。
And you do not have His word abiding in you, for Him whom He sent, this One you do not believe.
5:39 你们查考圣经，因你们以为其中有永远的生命，为我作见证的就是这经。
You search the Scriptures, because you think that in them you have eternal life; and it is these that testify concerning Me.
5:40 然而你们不肯到我这里来得生命。
Yet you are not willing to come to Me that you may have life.
5:41 我不接受从人来的荣耀。
I do not receive glory from men.
5:42 但我认识你们，知道你们里面没有神的爱。
But I know you, that you do not have the love of God in yourselves.
5:43 我在我父的名里来，你们并不接受我；若有别人在自己的名里来，你们倒要接受他。
I have come in the name of My Father, and you do not receive Me; if another comes in his own name, you will receive him.
5:44 你们互相受荣耀，却不寻求从独一之神来的荣耀，怎能信我呢？
How can you believe when you receive glory from one another and do not seek the glory that is from the only God?
5:45 不要以为我要向父控告你们；有一位控告你们的，就是你们所仰赖的摩西。
Do not think that I will accuse you before the Father; there is one who accuses you: Moses, in whom you have set your hope.
5:46 你们若信摩西，也必信我，因为他曾写过关于我的事。
For if you believed Moses, you would believe Me; for he wrote concerning Me.
5:47 你们若不信他所写的，怎能信我的话？
But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe My words?
约翰福音 John 第 6 章
6:1 这事以后，耶稣渡过加利利海，就是提比哩亚海。
After these things Jesus went away across the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias.
6:2 有大批群众，因为看见祂在病人身上所行的神迹，就跟随祂。
And a great crowd followed Him, because they saw the signs which He did on those who were sick.
6:3 耶稣上了山，和门徒一同坐在那里。
And Jesus went up to the mountain and sat there with His disciples.
6:4 那时犹太人的逾越节近了。
Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was near.
6:5 耶稣举目看见大批群众向祂走来，就对腓力说，我们从那里买饼给这些人吃？
Jesus then lifting up His eyes and seeing that a great crowd was coming toward Him, said to Philip, Where shall we buy bread that these may eat?
6:6 祂说这话，是要试验腓力，祂自己原知道要怎样行。
But this He said to test him, for He Himself knew what He was about to do.
6:7 腓力回答说，就是二百银币的饼，叫他们各人吃一点，也是不够的。
Philip answered Him, Two hundred denarii worth of bread is not sufficient for them, that each one may take a little.
6:8 有一个门徒，就是西门彼得的兄弟安得烈，对耶稣说，
One of His disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to Him,
6:9 这里有一个孩童，他有五个大麦饼、两条鱼，只是供给这么多人，还算什么？
There is a little boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish; but what are these for so many?
6:10 耶稣说，你们叫众人坐下。原来那地方的草多。坐下的男人，数目约有五千。
Jesus said, Have the people recline. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men reclined, in number about five thousand.
6:11 耶稣拿起饼来，祝谢了，就分给那坐着的人，分鱼也是这样，都随着他们所要的。
Jesus then took the loaves, and when He had given thanks, He distributed to those who were reclining; likewise also of the fish, as much as they wanted.
6:12 他们吃饱了，耶稣对门徒说，把剩下的零碎收拾起来，免得有蹧蹋的。
And when they were filled, He said to His disciples, Gather the broken pieces left over that nothing may be lost.
6:13 他们便将那五个大麦饼的零碎，就是众人吃了剩下的，收拾起来，装满了十二篮子。
So they gathered them and filled twelve handbaskets with broken pieces from the five barley loaves which were left over among those who had eaten.
6:14 众人看见耶稣所行的神迹，就说，这真是那要到世上来的申言者。
The people therefore, seeing the sign which He did, said, This is truly the Prophet who is to come into the world.
6:15 耶稣既知道众人要来强逼祂作王，就独自又退到山上去了。
Then Jesus, knowing that they were about to come and take Him by force to make Him King, withdrew again to the mountain, Himself alone.
6:16 到了晚上，祂的门徒下海边去，
And when evening fell, His disciples went down to the sea,
6:17 上了船，要过海往迦百农去。天已经黑了，耶稣还没有来到他们那里。
And they got into a boat and began crossing the sea to Capernaum. And it had already become dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them.
6:18 因为起了大风，海就翻腾起来。
And because a strong wind was blowing, the sea was churning.
6:19 门徒摇橹约行了五、六公里，看见耶稣在海上行走，渐渐近了船，他们就害怕。
Then, when they had rowed about twenty-five or thirty stadia, they saw Jesus walking on the sea and coming near the boat, and they became frightened.
6:20 耶稣对他们说，是我，不要怕。
But He said to them, It is I. Do not be afraid.
6:21 门徒这才乐意接祂上船，船立刻到了他们所要去的地方。
Then they were willing to take Him into the boat; and immediately the boat was at the land to which they were going.
6:22 第二日，站在海那边的群众，看见那里除了一只小船以外，没有别的船，又知道耶稣没有同祂的门徒上船，乃是门徒自己去的。
The next day the crowd which stood on the other side of the sea saw that there had been no other small boat there except one, and that Jesus had not gotten
into the boat with His disciples, but that His disciples had gone away alone.
6:23 另有几只小船从提比哩亚来，靠近主祝谢后，众人吃饼的地方。
But other small boats from Tiberias came near to the place where they ate the bread after the Lord had given thanks.
6:24 群众见耶稣和祂的门徒都不在那里，就上了小船，往迦百农去找耶稣。
So when the crowd saw that Jesus was not there, nor His disciples, they themselves got into the small boats and came to Capernaum, seeking Jesus.
6:25 他们既在海那边找着了，就对祂说，拉比，你是几时到这里来的？
And when they found Him on the other side of the sea, they said to Him, Rabbi, when did You get here?
6:26 耶稣回答说，我实实在在的告诉你们，你们找我，并不是因看见神迹，乃是因吃饼得饱。
Jesus answered them and said, Truly, truly, I say to you, You seek Me not because you have seen signs, but because you ate of the bread and were filled.
6:27 不要为那必坏的食物劳力，要为那存到永远生命的食物劳力，就是人子要赐给你们的，因为祂是父神所印证的。
Work not for the food which perishes, but for the food which abides unto eternal life, which the Son of Man will give you; for Him has the Father, even God, sealed.
6:28 他们问祂说，我们当怎样行，才算作神的工？
Then they said to Him, What shall we do that we may work the works of God?
6:29 耶稣回答说，信入神所差来的，这就是作神的工。
Jesus answered and said to them, This is the work of God, that you believe into Him whom He has sent.
6:30 他们就说，这样，你行什么神迹，叫我们看见就信你？你到底作什么工？
They said then to Him, What sign then will You do that we may see and believe You? What work will You do?
6:31 我们的祖宗在旷野吃过吗哪，如经上所记：“祂把那从天上来的粮赐给他们吃。”
Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, as it is written, "He gave them bread out of heaven to eat.''
6:32 耶稣说，我实实在在的告诉你们，不是摩西把那从天上来的粮赐给你们，乃是我父把那从天上来的真粮赐给你们。
Jesus therefore said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Moses has not given you the bread out of heaven, but My Father gives you the true bread out of heaven.
6:33 因为神的粮，就是那从天上降下来赐生命给世人的。
For the bread of God is He who comes down out of heaven and gives life to the world.
6:34 他们对祂说，主阿，常将这粮赐给我们。
They said therefore to Him, Lord, give us this bread always.
6:35 耶稣对他们说，我就是生命的粮，到我这里来的，必永远不饿；信入我的，必永远不渴。
Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life; he who comes to Me shall by no means hunger, and he who believes into Me shall by no means ever thirst.
6:36 只是我对你们说过，你们已经看见我，还是不信。
But I have said to you that you have also seen Me, and yet you do not believe.
6:37 凡父所赐给我的人，必到我这里来；到我这里来的，我绝不把他丢在外面。
All that the Father gives Me will come to Me, and him who comes to Me I shall by no means cast out.
6:38 因为我从天上降下来，不是要行我自己的意思，乃是要行那差我来者的意思。
For I have come down from heaven not to do My own will but the will of Him who sent Me.
6:39 那差我来者的意思，就是凡祂所赐给我的，叫我一个也不失落，在末日却叫他复活。
And this is the will of Him who sent Me, that of all which He has given Me I should lose nothing but should raise it up in the last day.
6:40 因为我父的意思，是叫一切看见子而信入祂的人，得着永远的生命，并且在末日我要叫他复活。
For this is the will of My Father, that every one who beholds the Son and believes into Him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up in the last day.
6:41 犹太人因为耶稣说，我是从天上降下来的粮，就唧咕议论祂。
The Jews therefore murmured concerning Him because He said, I am the bread that came down out of heaven.
6:42 他们说，这不是约瑟的儿子耶稣么？祂的父母我们岂不认得么？祂如今怎么说，我是从天上降下来的？
And they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does He now say, I have come down out of heaven?
6:43 耶稣回答说，你们不要彼此唧咕议论。
Jesus answered and said to them, Do not murmur among yourselves.
6:44 若不是差我来的父吸引人，就没有人能到我这里来；到我这里来的，在末日我要叫他复活。
No one can come to Me unless the Father who sent Me draws him; and I will raise him up in the last day.
6:45 申言者书上记着，“他们都要蒙神的教导。”凡从父听见又学习的，就到我这里来。
It is written in the prophets, "And they shall all be taught of God.'' Every one who has heard and learned from the Father comes to Me.
6:46 这不是说，有人看见过父，惟独从神来的，祂看见过父。
Not that anyone has seen the Father, except Him who is from God, He has seen the Father.
6:47 我实实在在的告诉你们，信的人有永远的生命。
Truly, truly, I say to you, He who believes has eternal life.
6:48 我就是生命的粮。
I am the bread of life.
6:49 你们的祖宗在旷野吃过吗哪，还是死了。
Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died.
6:50 这是从天上降下来的粮，叫人吃了就不死。
This is the bread which comes down out of heaven, that anyone may eat of it and not die.
6:51 我是从天上降下来的活粮，人若吃这粮，就必永远活着。我所要赐的粮，就是我的肉，为世人的生命所赐的。
I am the living bread which came down out of heaven; if anyone eats of this bread, he shall live forever; And the bread which I will give is My flesh, given for the
life of the world.
6:52 于是犹太人彼此争论说，这个人怎能把祂的肉给我们吃？
The Jews then contended with one another, saying, How can this man give us His flesh to eat?
6:53 耶稣说，我实实在在的告诉你们，你们若不吃人子的肉，不喝人子的血，就没有生命在你们里面。
Jesus therefore said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink His blood, you do not have life within yourselves.
6:54 吃我肉喝我血的人，就有永远的生命，在末日我要叫他复活。
He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up in the last day.
6:55 我的肉是真正的食物，我的血是真正的饮料。
For My flesh is true food, and My blood is true drink.
6:56 吃我肉喝我血的人，就住在我里面，我也住在他里面。
He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood abides in Me and I in him.
6:57 活的父怎样差我来，我又因父活着，照样，那吃我的人，也要因我活着。
As the living Father has sent Me and I live because of the Father, so he who eats Me, he also shall live because of Me.
6:58 这就是从天上降下来的粮，吃这粮的人，就永远活着，不像你们的祖宗吃过吗哪，还是死了。
This is the bread which came down out of heaven, not as the fathers ate and died; he who eats this bread shall live forever.
6:59 这些话是耶稣在迦百农施教的时候，在会堂里说的。
He said these things in a synagogue as He taught in Capernaum.
6:60 祂的门徒中有好些人听见了，就说，这话甚难，谁能听呢？
Many therefore of His disciples, when they heard this, said, This word is hard; who can hear it?
6:61 耶稣心里知道门徒为这话唧咕议论，就对他们说，这话是叫你们绊跌么？
But Jesus, knowing in Himself that His disciples were murmuring about this, said to them, Does this stumble you?
6:62 若是你们看见人子升到祂先前所在的地方，怎么样呢？
Then what if you saw the Son of Man ascending to where He was before?
6:63 赐人生命的乃是灵，肉是无益的；我对你们所说的话，就是灵，就是生命。
It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh profits nothing; the words which I have spoken to you are spirit and are life.
6:64 只是你们中间有不信的人。原来耶稣从起头就知道谁是不信的，谁要出卖祂。
But there are some of you who do not believe. For Jesus knew from the beginning who were the ones who did not believe and who was the one who would
betray Him.
6:65 耶稣又说，所以我对你们说过，若不是蒙父所赐，没有人能到我这里来。
And He said, For this reason I have told you that no one can come to Me unless it has been given to him from the Father.
6:66 从此祂门徒中有许多退去的，不再与祂同行。
From that time many of His disciples went back to what they left behind and no longer walked with Him.
6:67 耶稣就对那十二个门徒说，你们也想离去么？
Jesus therefore said to the twelve, Do you also want to go away?
6:68 西门彼得回答祂说，主阿，你有永远生命的话，我们还归从谁？
Simon Peter answered Him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have words of eternal life,
6:69 我们已经信了，又知道你是神的圣者。
And we have believed and have come to know that You are the Holy One of God.
6:70 耶稣回答说，我不是拣选了你们十二个么？但你们中间有一个是魔鬼。
Jesus answered them, Was it not I who chose you, the twelve? Yet one of you is a devil.
6:71 耶稣是指着加略人西门的儿子犹大说的；他本是十二门徒中的一个，后来要出卖耶稣的。
Now He spoke of Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot, for he, one of the twelve, would betray Him.
约翰福音 John 第 7 章
7:1 这事以后，耶稣在加利利行走，不愿在犹太往来，因为犹太人想要杀祂。
And after these things Jesus walked in Galilee, for He would not walk in Judea, because the Jews were seeking to kill Him.
7:2 当时犹太人的住棚节近了。
Now the Jews' Feast of Tabernacles was near.
7:3 耶稣的兄弟就对祂说，你离开这里上犹太去吧，叫你的门徒也看见你所行的事。
His brothers therefore said to Him, Depart from here and go into Judea, so that Your disciples also may behold Your works which You are doing;
7:4 人要显扬自己，没有在隐密中行事的。你若行这些事，就当将自己显明给世人看。
For no one does anything in secret and himself seeks to be known openly. If You do these things, manifest Yourself to the world.
7:5 原来连祂的兄弟也不信入祂。
For not even His brothers believed into Him.
7:6 耶稣就对他们说，我的时候还没有到，你们的时候却常是方便的。
Jesus therefore said to them, My time has not yet come, but your time is always ready.
7:7 世人不能恨你们，却是恨我，因为我指证他们所作的是恶的。
The world cannot hate you, but it hates Me, because I testify concerning it, that its works are evil.
7:8 你们上去过节吧，我现在不上去过这节，因为我的时候还没有到。
You go up to the feast; I am not going up to this feast, because My time has not yet been fulfilled.
7:9 耶稣说了这话，仍旧住在加利利。
And having said these things to them, He remained in Galilee.
7:10 然而祂兄弟上去过节以后，祂也上去了，但不是明去，似乎是暗去的。
But when His brothers had gone up to the feast, then He Himself also went up, not openly, but as it were in secret.
7:11 正当节期的时候，犹太人寻找耶稣，说，那人在那里？
The Jews therefore sought Him at the feast and said, Where is He?
7:12 群众纷纷唧咕议论祂，有的说，祂是好人；另有的却说，不然，祂是迷惑群众的。
And there was much murmuring about Him among the crowds: some said, He is a good man; but others said, No; rather He leads the crowd astray.
7:13 只是没有人公开的讲论祂，因为怕犹太人。
Yet no one spoke openly about Him for fear of the JEWS.
7:14 节期当中，耶稣上殿里去施教。
But when it was now the middle of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and began to teach.
7:15 犹太人就希奇说，这个人没有学过，怎么会明白书？
The Jews therefore marveled and said, How does this man know letters, without ever having studied?
7:16 耶稣回答说，我的教训不是我自己的，乃是那差我来者的。
Jesus therefore answered them and said, My teaching is not Mine, but His who sent Me.
7:17 人若立志实行祂的旨意，就必晓得这教训或是出于神，或是我从自己说的。
If anyone resolves to do His will, he will know concerning the teaching, whether it is of God or whether I speak from Myself.
7:18 那从自己说的，是寻求自己的荣耀；惟有那寻求差祂来者之荣耀的，这人才是真的，在祂里面没有不义。
He who speaks from himself seeks his own glory; but He who seeks the glory of Him who sent Him, this One is true, and unrighteousness is not in Him.
7:19 摩西岂不是赐律法给你们么？你们却没有一个人遵行律法。你们为什么想要杀我？
Has not Moses given you the law? Yet none of you keeps the law. Why do you seek to kill Me?
7:20 群众回答说，你有鬼附着，谁想要杀你？
The crowd answered, You have a demon! Who is seeking to kill You?
7:21 耶稣回答说，我作了一件事，你们都以为希奇。
Jesus answered and said to them, I did one work, and you all marvel.
7:22 摩西传割礼给你们，（其实不是从摩西开始的，乃是从祖先开始的，）因此你们也在安息日给人行割礼。
For the same reason Moses gave you circumcision (not that it is from Moses, but from the fathers), and on the Sabbath you circumcise a man.
7:23 人若在安息日受割礼，免得违背摩西的律法，我在安息日叫一个人全然康复，你们就向我生气么？
If a man receives circumcision on the Sabbath that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with Me because I made an entire man well on the
Sabbath?
7:24 不可按外貌判断，总要作公义的判断。
Do not judge according to appearance, but judge the righteous judgment.
7:25 耶路撒冷人中有的说，这不就是他们想要杀的人么？
Then some of the people of Jerusalem said, Is not this the One whom they are seeking to kill?
7:26 你看祂还公开讲论，他们也不向祂说什么。难道官长真知道这是基督么？
And look, He is speaking openly, and they say nothing to Him. Have the rulers, perhaps, really recognized that this is the Christ?
7:27 然而这个人，我们晓得祂是那里的；只是基督来的时候，没有人知道祂是那里的。
But we know where this man is from; yet when the Christ comes, no one knows where He is from.
7:28 那时耶稣在殿里施教，大声说，你们认识我，也晓得我是那里的；我并不是从自己来的，但那差我来的是真的，你们不认识祂；
Jesus therefore cried out in the temple, teaching and saying, You both know Me and know where I am from; and I have not come of Myself, but He who sent Me
is true, whom you do not know.
7:29 我却认识祂，因为我是从祂来的，是祂差了我来。
I know Him, because I am from Him, and He sent Me.
7:30 他们就想要捉拿耶稣，只是没有人下手，因为祂的时候还没有到。
They sought then to seize Him, yet no one laid a hand on Him, because His hour had not yet come.
7:31 但群众中有许多人信入了祂，并且说，基督来的时候，祂所行的神迹，难道会比这人所行的更多么？
But many out of the crowd believed into Him and said, Will the Christ, when He comes, do more signs than this man has done?
7:32 法利赛人听见群众唧咕议论这些关于耶稣的事，祭司长和法利赛人就打发差役去捉拿祂。
The Pharisees heard the crowd murmuring these things about Him, and the chief priests and the Pharisees sent attendants to arrest Him.
7:33 于是耶稣说，我还有不多的时候和你们同在，以后就回到差我来的那里去。
Jesus therefore said, I am still with you a little while, and then I am going to Him who sent Me.
7:34 你们要找我，却找不着，我所在的地方，你们不能到。
You will seek Me and will not find Me; and where I am, you cannot come.
7:35 犹太人就彼此说，这人要往那里去，叫我们找不着？难道祂要往散居在希利尼人中的犹太人那里，去教训希利尼人么？
The Jews then said to one another, Where is this man about to go that we will not find Him? Is He about to go to the Jews in dispersion among the Greeks and
teach the Greeks?
7:36 祂说，你们要找我，却找不着，我所在的地方，你们不能到。这话是什么意思？
What is the word which He said, You will seek Me and will not find Me; and where I am, you cannot come?
7:37 节期的末日，就是最大之日，耶稣站着高声说，人若渴了，可以到我这里来喝。
Now on the last day, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, saying, If anyone thirsts, let him come to Me and drink.
7:38 信入我的人，就如经上所说，从他腹中要流出活水的江河来。
He who believes into Me, as the Scripture said, out of his innermost being shall flow rivers of living water.
7:39 耶稣这话是指着信入祂的人将要受的那灵说的；那时还没有那灵，因为耶稣尚未得着荣耀。
But this He said concerning the Spirit, whom those who believed into Him were about to receive; for the Spirit was not yet, because Jesus had not yet been
glorified.
7:40 群众听见这话，有的说，这真是那申言者。
Some of the crowd therefore, when they heard these words, said, This is truly the Prophet.
7:41 另有的说，这是基督。但也有的说，基督岂是从加利利出来的么？
Others said, This is the Christ. But some said, Does then the Christ come out of Galilee?
7:42 经上岂不是说，基督是出于大卫的后裔，是从大卫的本乡伯利恒出来的么？
Has not the Scripture said that the Christ comes out of the seed of David and from Bethlehem, the village where David was?
7:43 于是群众因着耶稣起了分裂。
So there arose a division among the crowd because of Him.
7:44 其中有人想要捉拿祂，只是没有人下手。
And some of them wanted to seize Him, but no one laid hands on Him.
7:45 差役回到祭司长和法利赛人那里，他们对差役说，你们为什么没有带祂来？
The attendants therefore came to the chief priests and Pharisees, and these said to them, Why did you not bring Him?
7:46 差役回答说，从来没有像祂这样说话的。
The attendants answered, Never has a man spoken as this man has.
7:47 法利赛人回答他们说，你们也受了迷惑么？
The Pharisees then answered them, Have you also been deceived?
7:48 官长或是法利赛人，岂有信入祂的？
Has any one of the rulers or Pharisees believed into Him?
7:49 但这不明白律法的群众，是被咒诅的。
But this crowd which does not know the law is accursed.
7:50 他们当中有尼哥底母，就是先前到耶稣那里去的，对他们说，
Nicodemus said to them (he who came to Him before, being one of them),
7:51 若不先听本人的口供，不知道他所作的事，难道我们的律法就定他的罪么？
Does our law condemn a man unless it first hears from him and knows what he is doing?
7:52 他们回答他说，难道你也是出于加利利么？你且去查考，就知道没有申言者是出于加利利而兴起的。于是各人都回自己的家去了。
They answered and said to him, Are you also from Galilee? Search and see that no prophet arises out of Galilee.
约翰福音 John 第 8 章
8:1 耶稣往橄榄山去。
And everyone went to his own house. But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives.
8:2 清早又来到殿里，众百姓都到祂那里去，祂就坐下教训他们。
And early in the morning He came again into the temple, and all the people came to Him, and He sat down and taught them.
8:3 经学家和法利赛人，带着一个行淫时被拿的妇人来，叫她站在当中，
And the scribes and Pharisees brought a woman caught in adultery, and having set her in the midst,
8:4 就对耶稣说，夫子，这妇人是正在行淫时被拿的。
They said to Him, Teacher, this woman has been caught committing adultery, in the very act.
8:5 摩西在律法上吩咐我们，把这样的妇人用石头打死，这样，你怎么说？
Now in the law, Moses commanded us to stone such women. What then do you say?
8:6 他们说这话，是要试诱耶稣，好得着把柄告祂。耶稣却弯下腰来，用指头在地上写字。
But they said this to tempt Him, so that they might have reason to accuse Him. But Jesus stooped down and wrote with His finger on the ground.
8:7 他们还是不住的问祂，耶稣就直起腰来，对他们说，你们中间谁是没有罪的，谁就先拿石头打她。
But when they persisted in questioning Him, He stood up and said to them, He who is without sin among you, let him be the first to throw a stone at her.
8:8 于是又弯下腰来，在地上写字。
And again He stooped down and wrote on the ground.
8:9 他们听见了，就从老的开始，一个一个的出去了；只剩下耶稣一人，还有那妇人仍然站在当中。
And when they heard that, they went out one by one, beginning with the older ones. And Jesus was left alone, and the woman stood where she was, in the
midst.
8:10 耶稣就直起腰来，对她说，妇人，那些人在那里？没有人定你的罪么？
And Jesus stood up and said to her, Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you?
8:11 她说，主阿，没有。耶稣说，我也不定你的罪；去吧，从今以后不要再犯罪了。
And she said, No one, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I condemn you; go, and from now on sin no more.
8:12 于是耶稣又对众人讲论说，我是世界的光，跟从我的，就绝不在黑暗里行，必要得着生命的光。
Again therefore Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world; he who follows Me shall by no means walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.
8:13 法利赛人就对祂说，你是为自己作见证，你的见证不真。
The Pharisees then said to Him, You are testifying concerning Yourself; Your testimony is not true.
8:14 耶稣回答他们说，我就是为自己作见证，我的见证还是真的，因我晓得我从那里来，往那里去，你们却不晓得我从那里来，往那里去。
Jesus answered and said to them, Even if I testify concerning Myself, My testimony is true, for I know where I came from and where I am going; but you do not
know where I come from or where I am going.
8:15 你们是凭肉体判断人，我不判断任何人。
You judge according to the flesh; I judge no one.
8:16 我就是判断，我的判断也是真的，因为我并不单独，还有差我来的父与我同在。
But even if I do judge, My judgment is true, for I am not alone, but I and the Father who sent Me.
8:17 连你们的律法上也记着，两个人的见证是真的：
And in your law also it has been written that the testimony of two men is true:
8:18 我是为我自己作见证的，还有差我来的父，也为我作见证。
I am One who testifies concerning Myself, and the Father who sent Me testifies concerning Me.
8:19 他们就问祂说，你的父在那里？耶稣回答说，你们不认识我，也不认识我的父；你们若认识我，也就认识我的父。
They said then to Him, Where is Your Father? Jesus answered, You know neither Me nor My Father; if you knew Me, you would know My Father also.
8:20 这些话是耶稣在殿里施教的时候，在银库那里说的，也没有人拿祂，因为祂的时候还没有到。
These words He spoke in the treasury as He taught in the temple; and no one seized Him, because His hour had not yet come.
8:21 耶稣又对他们说，我要去了，你们要寻找我，并且你们要死在你们的罪中；我所去的地方，你们不能到。
He said therefore again to them, I am going away, and you will seek Me and will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come.
8:22 犹太人就说，祂说我所去的地方，你们不能到，难道祂要自杀么？
The Jews then said, He is not going to kill Himself, is He, for He says, Where I am going, you cannot come?
8:23 耶稣对他们说，你们是出于下头的，我是出于上头的；你们是属这世界的，我不是属这世界的。
And He said to them, You are from below, I am from above; you are of this world, I am not of this world.
8:24 所以我对你们说，你们要死在你们的罪中；你们若不信我是，必要死在你们的罪中。
Therefore I said to you that you will die in your sins; for unless you believe that I am, you will die in your sins.
8:25 他们就对祂说，你是谁？耶稣对他们说，基本上，就是我对你们所讲说的。
They said then to Him, Who are You? Jesus said to them, Altogether that which I also tell you.
8:26 关于你们，我有许多事要讲说，要判断；但那差我来的是真实的，我把从祂所听见的这些事，对世人讲说。
I have many things to say and to judge concerning you, but He who sent Me is true, and what I have heard from Him, these things I speak to the world.
8:27 他们不明白耶稣是在对他们讲说父。
They did not understand that He was speaking to them of the Father.
8:28 所以耶稣对他们说，你们举起人子以后，必知道我是，并且知道我不从自己作什么；我说这些话，乃是照着父所教训我的。
Jesus therefore said to them, When you lift up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am, and that I do nothing from Myself, but as My Father has taught Me, I
speak these things.
8:29 那差我来的是与我同在，祂没有撇下我独自一人，因为我始终作祂所喜悦的事。
And He who sent Me is with Me; He has not left Me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to Him.
8:30 耶稣说这些话的时候，就有许多人信入了祂。
As He spoke these things, many believed into Him.
8:31 耶稣对信祂的犹太人说，你们若住在我的话里，就真是我的门徒；
Then Jesus said to those Jews who believed Him, If you abide in My word, you are truly My disciples;
8:32 你们必认识真理，真理必叫你们得以自由。
And you shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free.
8:33 他们回答祂说，我们是亚伯拉罕的后裔，从来没有被谁奴役过；你怎么说，你们必得以自由？
They answered Him, We are Abraham's seed and have never yet been enslaved to anyone. How is it that You say, You shall become free?
8:34 耶稣回答他们说，我实实在在的告诉你们，凡犯罪的，就是罪的奴仆。
Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Everyone who commits sin is a slave of sin.
8:35 奴仆不永远住在家里，儿子是永远住在家里。
And the slave does not abide in the house forever; the son does abide forever.
8:36 所以神的儿子若叫你们自由，你们就真自由了。
If therefore the Son sets you free, you shall be free indeed.
8:37 我知道你们是亚伯拉罕的后裔；你们却想要杀我，因为你们里面容不下我的话。
I know that you are Abraham's seed; but you seek to kill Me because My word has no place in you.
8:38 我所说的，是在我父那里看见的；你们所行的，是从你们的父听见的。
I speak the things which I have seen with My Father; so then, you also do the things which you have heard from your father.
8:39 他们回答祂说，我们的父就是亚伯拉罕。耶稣对他们说，你们若是亚伯拉罕的子孙，就必行亚伯拉罕所作的。
They answered and said to Him, Our father is Abraham. Jesus said to them, If you were Abraham's children, you would do the works of Abraham.
8:40 现在你们却想要杀我这个将从神所听见的真理，对你们讲了的人！这不是亚伯拉罕所行的。
But now you are seeking to kill Me, a man who has told you the truth which I heard from God; Abraham did not do this.
8:41 你们是行你们父所作的。他们对祂说，我们不是从淫乱生的；我们只有一位父，就是神。
You do the works of your father. They then said to Him, We were not born of fornication; we have one Father, God.
8:42 耶稣对他们说，倘若神是你们的父，你们就必爱我；因为我是出于神而前来的，并且已经来了。我不是从自己来的，乃是祂差了我来。
Jesus said to them, If God were your Father you would love Me; for I came forth out from God and have come from Him; for I have not come of Myself, but He
sent Me.
8:43 你们为什么不明白我的讲说？无非是因你们不能听我的话。
Why do you not understand My speaking? It is because you cannot hear My word.
8:44 你们是出于那父魔鬼，你们父的私欲，你们愿意行。他从起初就是杀人的，并且不站在真理中，因为在他里面没有真理。他说谎是出于他自己的私有
物，因他是说谎的，也是说谎者的父。
You are of your father the devil, and you want to do the desires of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth, because
there is no truth in him. When he speaks the lie, he speaks it out of his own possessions; for he is a liar and the father of it.
8:45 我讲真理，你们却因此不信我。
But because I speak the truth, you do not believe Me.
8:46 你们中间谁能指证我有罪？我既然讲真理，你们为什么不信我？
Which of you convicts Me of sin? Since I speak truth, why do you not believe Me?
8:47 出于神的，必听神的话；你们所以不听，因为你们不是出于神。
He who is of God hears the words of God; for this reason you do not hear them, because you are not of God.
8:48 犹太人回答祂说，我们说你是撒玛利亚人，又有鬼附着，岂不正对么？
The Jews answered and said to Him, Have we not spoken well in saying that You are a Samaritan and have a demon?
8:49 耶稣回答说，我没有鬼附着，我尊敬我的父，你们倒侮辱我。
Jesus answered, I do not have a demon, but I honor My Father, and you dishonor Me.
8:50 然而我不寻求自己的荣耀，有一位为我寻求荣耀并审判人的。
But I do not seek My glory; there is One who seeks glory for Me and judges.
8:51 我实实在在的告诉你们，人若遵守我的话，必永远不见死。
Truly, truly, I say to you, If anyone keeps My word, he shall by no means see death forever.
8:52 犹太人对祂说，现在我们知道你有鬼附着。亚伯拉罕死了，众申言者也死了，你还说人若遵守我的话，必永远不尝死味。
The Jews therefore said to Him, Now we know that You have a demon. Abraham died, and the prophets too; yet You say, If anyone keeps My word, he shall by
no means taste death forever.
8:53 难道你比我们的祖宗亚伯拉罕还大么？他死了，众申言者也死了。你将自己当作什么人？
Are You greater than our father Abraham, who died? The prophets died too. Who are You making Yourself?
8:54 耶稣回答说，我若荣耀自己，我的荣耀就算不得什么，荣耀我的乃是我的父，就是你们所说是你们神的那一位。
Jesus answered, If I glorify Myself, My glory is nothing; it is My Father who glorifies Me, of whom you say that He is your God.
8:55 你们未曾认识祂，我却认识祂。我若说不认识祂，我就是说谎的，像你们一样，但我认识祂，也遵守祂的话。
Yet you have not known Him, but I know Him. And if I say that I do not know Him, I will be like you, a liar; but I do know Him and I keep His word.
8:56 你们的祖宗亚伯拉罕欢腾的要见我的日子，既看见了，就欢乐。
Your father Abraham exulted that he would see My day, and he saw it and rejoiced.
8:57 于是犹太人对祂说，你还没有五十岁，岂见过亚伯拉罕？
The Jews then said to Him, You are not yet fifty years old, and have You seen Abraham?
8:58 耶稣对他们说，我实实在在的告诉你们，还没有亚伯拉罕，我就是。
Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Before Abraham came into being, I am.
8:59 于是他们拿石头要打祂，耶稣却隐藏起来，从殿里出去了。
So they picked up stones to throw at Him, but Jesus was hidden and went out of the temple.
约翰福音 John 第 9 章
9:1 耶稣经过的时候，看见一个生来瞎眼的人。
And as He passed by, He saw a man blind from birth.
9:2 门徒问耶稣说，拉比，是谁犯了罪，叫这人生来就瞎眼？是这人，还是他父母？
And His disciples asked Him, saying, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he would be born blind?
9:3 耶稣回答说，不是这人犯了罪，也不是他父母犯了罪，乃是要在他身上显明神的作为。
Jesus answered, Neither has this man sinned nor his parents, but he was born so, that the works of God might be manifested in him.
9:4 趁着白昼，我们必须作那差我来者的工，黑夜一到，就没有人能作工了。
We must work the works of Him who sent Me while it is day; night is coming when no one can work.
9:5 我在世界的时候，是世界的光。
While I am in the world, I am the light of the world.
9:6 祂说了这话，就吐唾沫在地上，用唾沫和泥，抹在瞎子的眼睛上，
When He had said this, He spat on the ground and made clay of the spittle and anointed his eyes with the clay,
9:7 对他说，你往西罗亚池子里去洗。（西罗亚翻出来，就是奉差遣。）他去一洗，回来的时候，就看见了。
And He said to him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam (which is interpreted, Sent). He went therefore and washed and came away seeing.
9:8 他的邻舍和那先前见他是讨饭的，就说，这不是那素常坐着讨饭的人么？
The neighbors then and those who previously saw him as a beggar said, Is not this the one who used to sit and beg?
9:9 有的说，就是他。又有的说，不是，却是像他。他自己说，是我。
Some said, This is he. Others said, No, but he is like him. He said, I am the one.
9:10 于是他们对他说，你的眼睛是怎么开的？
They said then to him, How then were your eyes opened?
9:11 他回答说，那名叫耶稣的人，和泥抹我的眼睛，对我说，你往西罗亚池子去洗，我去一洗，就看见了。
He answered, The man called Jesus made clay and anointed my eyes, and said to me, Go to the pool of Siloam and wash. I went therefore and washed, and I
received my sight.
9:12 他们对他说，那个人在那里？他说，我不知道。
And they said to him, Where is He? He said, I do not know.
9:13 他们就把那从前瞎眼的人带到法利赛人那里。
They brought him who was once blind to the Pharisees.
9:14 耶稣和泥开他眼睛的那日是安息日。
Now it was the Sabbath, on which day Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes.
9:15 法利赛人也问他是怎么得看见的。瞎子对他们说，祂把泥抹在我的眼睛上，我一洗，就看见了。
Again therefore the Pharisees also asked him how he received his sight. And he said to them, He put clay on my eyes, and I washed, and I see.
9:16 法利赛人中有的说，这个人不是从神来的，因为祂不守安息日。又有的说，一个罪人怎能行这样的神迹？他们中间就起了分裂。
Then some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, because He does not keep the Sabbath. But others said, How can a man who is a sinner do such
signs? And there was a division among them.
9:17 他们又对瞎子说，祂既然开了你的眼睛，你说祂是怎样的人？他说，是个申言者。
Then they said to the blind man again, What do you say about Him, in that He opened your eyes? And he said, He is a prophet.
9:18 犹太人不信他是从前瞎眼，后来得看见的，等到叫了那得看见者的父母来，
The Jews then did not believe concerning him that he had been blind and had received his sight, until they called the parents of him who had received his sight
9:19 问他们说，这是你们所说，那生来就瞎眼的儿子么？现在他怎么看见了？
And asked them, saying, Is this your son, of whom you say that he was born blind? How then does he now see?
9:20 他父母回答说，我们知道他是我们的儿子，生来就是瞎眼的。
Then his parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son and that he was born blind.
9:21 至于他如今怎么看见了，我们却不知道，是谁开了他的眼睛，我们也不知道；你们问他吧，他已经成人，会替自己说话了。
But how he now sees, we do not know; or who opened his eyes, we do not know. Ask him; he is of age; he will speak for himself.
9:22 他父母说这话，是因怕犹太人，因为犹太人已经商议定了，若有承认耶稣是基督的，要把他赶出会堂。
His parents said these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone confessed Him to be the Christ, he should be put out
of the synagogue.
9:23 因此他父母说，他已经成人了，你们问他吧。
Because of this his parents said, He is of age; question him.
9:24 所以法利赛人第二次叫了那从前瞎眼的人来，对他说，你当将荣耀归与神，我们知道这人是个罪人。
Therefore a second time they called the man who had been blind, and said to him, Give glory to God; we know that this man is a sinner.
9:25 那人回答说，祂是个罪人不是，我不知道；有一件事我知道，从前我是瞎眼的，现在看见了。
Then he answered, Whether or not He is a sinner, I do not know; one thing I do know, that though I was blind, now I see.
9:26 他们就问他说，祂向你作了什么？是怎么开了你的眼睛？
They said then to him, What did He do to you? How did He open your eyes?
9:27 他回答说，我已经告诉你们，你们不听，现在为什么又想要听？莫非你们也想要作祂的门徒么？
He answered them, I told you already and you did not hear. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become His disciples?
9:28 他们就骂他说，你是那人的门徒，我们是摩西的门徒。
And they reviled him and said, You are His disciple; but we are disciples of Moses.
9:29 我们晓得神曾对摩西说过话，只是这个人，我们不晓得祂是那里的。
We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where He is from.
9:30 那人回答说，祂开了我的眼睛，你们竟不晓得祂是那里的，这真是奇怪。
The man answered and said to them, Why here is an amazing thing, that you do not know where He is from, and yet He opened my eyes!
9:31 我们晓得神不听罪人，惟有敬畏神，实行祂旨意的，神才听他。
We know that God does not hear sinners, but if anyone is God-fearing and does His will, He hears him.
9:32 自古以来，未曾听过有人把生来瞎眼者的眼睛开了。
Since time began it has never been heard that anyone opened the eyes of one born blind.
9:33 这人若不是从神来的，什么也不能作。
If this man were not from God, He could do nothing.
9:34 他们回答说，你全然生在罪中，还要教训我们么？于是把他赶出去了。
They answered and said to him, You were wholly born in sins, and you are teaching us? And they cast him out.
9:35 耶稣听说他们把他赶出去，后来遇见他，就说，你信入神的儿子么？
Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and He found him and said, Do you believe into the Son of God?
9:36 他回答说，主阿，谁是神的儿子，叫我信入祂？
He answered and said, And who is He, Lord, that I may believe into Him?
9:37 耶稣说，你已经看见祂，这和你说话的就是祂。
Jesus said to him, You have both seen Him, and He is the One speaking with you.
9:38 他说，主阿，我信，就拜耶稣。
And he said, Lord, I believe; and he worshipped Him.
9:39 耶稣说，我为审判到这世上来，叫看不见的可以看见，看得见的反瞎了眼。
And Jesus said, For judgment I have come into this world, that those who do not see may see, and that those who see may become blind.
9:40 同祂在那里的法利赛人，有的听见这话，就说，难道我们也瞎了眼么？
Some of the Pharisees who were with Him heard these things and said to Him, We are not blind also, are we?
9:41 耶稣对他们说，你们若瞎了眼，就没有罪了；但现在你们说，我们看得见，所以你们的罪还存在。
Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would not have sin; but now that you say, We see; your sin remains.
约翰福音 John 第 10 章
10:1 我实实在在的告诉你们，不从门进羊圈，倒从别处爬进去的，那人就是贼，就是强盗。
Truly, truly, I say to you, He who does not enter through the door into the sheepfold, but climbs up from somewhere else, he is a thief and a robber;
10:2 从门进去的，才是羊的牧人。
But he who enters through the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
10:3 看门的就给他开门，羊也听他的声音；他按着名叫自己的羊，领它们出来。
To him the doorkeeper opens, and the sheep hear his voice; and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out.
10:4 当他把自己的羊都放出来，就在前头走，羊也跟着他，因为认得他的声音。
When he puts forth all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him because they know his voice.
10:5 羊绝不跟着生人，反要逃避，因为不认得生人的声音。
But they will by no means follow a stranger, but will flee from him, because they do not know the voice of strangers.
10:6 耶稣将这比喻告诉他们，但他们不明白祂所说的是什么意思。
This parable Jesus spoke to them, but they did not know what those things meant that He spoke to them.
10:7 所以耶稣又说，我实实在在的告诉你们，我就是羊的门。
Jesus therefore said to them again, Truly, truly, I say to you that I am the door of the sheep.
10:8 凡在我以前来的，都是贼，都是强盗，羊却不听他们。
All who came before Me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them.
10:9 我就是门；凡从我进来的，必要得救，并且必要入，必要出，也必要找着草场。
I am the door; if anyone enters through Me, he shall be saved and shall go in and go out and shall find pasture.
10:10 贼来了，无非是要偷窃、杀害、毁坏；我来了，是要叫羊得生命，并且得的更丰盛。
The thief does not come except to steal and kill and destroy; I have come that they may have life and may have it abundantly.
10:11 我是好牧人，好牧人为羊舍命。
I am the good Shepherd; the good Shepherd lays down His life for the sheep.
10:12 那作雇工的，不是牧人，羊也不是他自己的，他看见狼来，就撇下羊逃跑了，狼抓住羊，把它们赶散了；
He who is a hireling and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees; and the wolf snatches them and
scatters them.
10:13 雇工逃跑，因他是雇工，并不顾念羊。
He flees because he is a hireling and it does not matter to him concerning the sheep.
10:14 我是好牧人，我认识那属我的，那属我的也认识我，
I am the good Shepherd, and I know My own, and My own know Me,
10:15 正如父认识我，我也认识父一样；并且我为羊舍命。
Even as the Father knows Me and I know the Father; and I lay down My life for the sheep.
10:16 我另外有羊，不是属于这圈的；我必须领他们来，他们也要听我的声音，并且要成为一群，归一个牧人了。
And I have other sheep, which are not of this fold; I must lead them also, and they shall hear My voice, and there shall be one flock, one Shepherd.
10:17 父爱我，因我将命舍去，好再取回来。
For this reason the Father loves Me, because I lay down My life that I may take it again.
10:18 没有人夺我的命去，是我自己舍的。我有权柄舍了，也有权柄再取回来；这是我从我父所受的命令。
No one takes it away from Me, but I lay it down of Myself. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it again. This commandment I received from
My Father.
10:19 因这些话，犹太人中又起了分裂。
A division again took place among the Jews because of these words.
10:20 其中有好些人说，祂是被鬼附着，而且疯了，为什么听祂？
And many of them said, He has a demon and is insane. Why do you listen to Him?
10:21 另有人说，这不是鬼附的人所说的话。鬼岂能开瞎子的眼睛？
Others said, These are not the words of one who is demon possessed. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?
10:22 在耶路撒冷有献殿节，那时正是冬天。
At that time the Feast of the Dedication occurred in Jerusalem, and it was winter.
10:23 耶稣在殿里所罗门的廊下行走。
And Jesus was walking in the temple in the portico of Solomon.
10:24 犹太人围着祂，说，你叫我们的心悬疑不定到几时？你若是基督，就明明的告诉我们。
The Jews therefore surrounded Him and said to Him, How long will You hold our soul in suspense? If You are the Christ, tell us plainly.
10:25 耶稣回答他们说，我已经告诉你们，你们不信；我在我父的名里所行的事，为我作见证；
Jesus answered them, I told you, and you do not believe. The works which I do in My Father's name, these testify concerning Me;
10:26 只是你们不信，因为你们不是属我的羊。
But you do not believe, because you are not of My sheep.
10:27 我的羊听我的声音，我也认识他们，他们也跟着我。
My sheep hear My voice, and I know them, and they follow Me;
10:28 我又赐给他们永远的生命，他们必永不灭亡，谁也不能从我手里把他们夺去。
And I give to them eternal life, and they shall by no means perish forever, and no one shall snatch them out of My hand.
10:29 那把他们赐给我的父，比万有都大，谁也不能从我父手里把他们夺去。
My Father, who has given them to Me, is greater than all, and no one can snatch them out of My Father's hand.
10:30 我与父原是一。
I and the Father are one.
10:31 犹太人又拿起石头要打祂。
The Jews again took up stones that they might stone Him.
10:32 耶稣对他们说，我从父显出许多善事给你们看，你们是为那一件事拿石头打我？
Jesus answered them, I have shown you many good works from the Father; for which of these works are you stoning Me?
10:33 犹太人回答说，我们不是为善事拿石头打你，乃是为你的僭妄，又为你是个人，反将自己当作神。
The Jews answered Him, We are not stoning You for a good work, but for blasphemy, and because You, being a man, are making Yourself God.
10:34 耶稣回答他们说，你们的律法上岂不是写着，“我曾说你们是神”么？
Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, "I said, You are gods''?
10:35 经书是不能废掉的，若是神的话所临到的人，祂尚且称他们为神，
If He said they were gods, to whom the word of God came, and the Scripture cannot be broken,
10:36 那么父所分别为圣，又差到世上来的，因祂说，我是神的儿子，你们就说，你说僭妄的话么？
Do you say of Him whom the Father has sanctified and sent into the world, You are blaspheming, because I said, I am the Son of God?
10:37 我若不行我父的事，你们就不必信我；
If I do not do the works of My Father, do not believe Me;
10:38 我若行了，你们纵然不信我，也当信这些事，叫你们可以知道，且一直知道：父在我里面，我也在父里面。
But if I do them, even if you do not believe Me, believe the works so that you may come to know and continue to know that the Father is in Me and I am in the
Father.
10:39 他们又想要捉拿祂，祂却从他们的手中走出来了。
Then they sought again to seize Him, yet He went forth out of their hand.
10:40 耶稣又往约但河外去，到了约翰起初施浸的地方，就住在那里。
And He went away again across the Jordan, to the place where John was baptizing at first, and He remained there.
10:41 有许多人来到祂那里说，约翰没有行过一件神迹，但约翰指着这人所说的一切话都是真实的。
And many came to Him and said, John did no sign, but all the things John said concerning this man were true.
10:42 许多人就在那里信入了耶稣。
And many believed into Him there.
约翰福音 John 第 11 章
11:1 有一个患病的伯大尼人拉撒路，是马利亚和她姐姐马大那村子的人。
Now there was a certain man who was sick, Lazarus from Bethany, of the village of Mary and her sister Martha.
11:2 这马利亚就是那用香膏抹主，又用自己头发擦祂脚的，患病的拉撒路是她的兄弟。
It was that Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped His feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.
11:3 姊妹二人就打发人到耶稣那里说，主阿，看哪，你所爱的人病了。
The sisters therefore sent to Him saying, Lord, behold, he whom You love is sick.
11:4 耶稣听见，就说，这病不至于死，乃是为着神的荣耀，叫神的儿子藉此得荣耀。
But when Jesus heard it, He said, This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, in order that the Son of God may be glorified through it.
11:5 耶稣素来爱马大，和她妹妹，并拉撒路。
Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus.
11:6 祂听见拉撒路病了，就在所居之地，仍住了两天。
When therefore He heard that he was sick, He remained at that time in the place where He was for two days.
11:7 然后对门徒说，我们再往犹太去吧。
Then after this He said to the disciples, Let us go into Judea again.
11:8 门徒对祂说，拉比，犹太人近来想要拿石头打你，你还往那里去么？
The disciples said to Him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone You, and You are going there again?
11:9 耶稣回答说，白昼不是有十二小时么？人若在白昼行走，就不至碰跌，因为看见这世界的光。
Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world.
11:10 若在黑夜行走，就必碰跌，因为那光不在他里面。
But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him.
11:11 耶稣说了这话，随后对他们说，我们的朋友拉撒路睡了，我要去叫醒他。
He said these things, and after this He said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep; but I am going that I may wake him out of sleep.
11:12 门徒对祂说，主阿，他若睡了，就必好了。
The disciples then said to Him, Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover.
11:13 耶稣原是指着拉撒路的死说的，他们却以为祂是指拉撒路安然睡觉说的。
But Jesus had spoken about his death, but they thought that He was speaking about taking rest in sleep.
11:14 所以耶稣就明明的告诉他们说，拉撒路死了。
So Jesus then told them plainly, Lazarus has died.
11:15 我为你们欢喜我不在那里，好叫你们信。现在我们往他那里去吧。
And I rejoice for your sakes that I was not there, so that you may believe; but let us go to him.
11:16 那称为低土马的多马，就对同作门徒的说，我们也去和祂同死吧。
Then Thomas, who is called Didymus, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go, that we may die with Him.
11:17 耶稣到了，就发现拉撒路在坟墓里，已经四天了。
Then when Jesus came, He found that he had already been in the tomb four days.
11:18 伯大尼离耶路撒冷不远，约有三公里。
Now Bethany was near Jerusalem, about fifteen stadia away.
11:19 有好些犹太人来到马大和马利亚那里，要为她们兄弟的事安慰她们。
And many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother.
11:20 马大听见耶稣来了，就去迎接祂，马利亚却仍然坐在家里。
Martha therefore, when she heard that Jesus was coming, went to meet Him; but Mary sat in the house.
11:21 马大对耶稣说，主阿，你若早在这里，我兄弟就不会死。
Then Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if You had been here, my brother would not have died.
11:22 就是现在，我也知道你无论向神求什么，神也必赐给你。
But even now I know that whatever You ask of God, God will give You.
11:23 耶稣对她说，你兄弟必然复活。
Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again.
11:24 马大说，我知道在末日复活的时候，他必复活。
Martha said to Him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection in the last day.
11:25 耶稣对她说，我是复活，我是生命；信入我的人，虽然死了，也必复活；
Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life; he who believes into Me, even if he should die, shall live;
11:26 凡活着信入我的人，必永远不死。你信这话么？
And every one who lives and believes into Me shall by no means die forever. Do you believe this?
11:27 马大对祂说，主阿，是的；我信你是基督，是神的儿子，就是那要来到世界的。
She said to Him, Yes, Lord; I have believed that You are the Christ, the Son of God, He who comes into the world.
11:28 马大说了这话，就去暗暗的叫她妹妹马利亚，说，夫子来了，叫你。
And when she had said this, she went away and called Mary her sister secretly, saying, The Teacher is here and is calling you.
11:29 马利亚听见了，就急忙起来，到耶稣那里去。
And she, when she heard this, rose quickly and came to Him.
11:30 那时，耶稣还没有进村子，仍在马大迎接祂的地方。
Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha met Him.
11:31 那些同马利亚在家里安慰她的犹太人，见她急忙起来出去，就跟着她，以为她要往坟墓那里去哭。
The Jews then who were with her in the house and were consoling her, when they saw that Mary rose up quickly and went out, followed her, supposing that she
was going to the tomb to weep there.
11:32 马利亚到了耶稣那里，看见祂，就俯伏在祂脚前，对祂说，主阿，你若早在这里，我兄弟就不会死。
Then Mary, when she came to where Jesus was, saw Him and fell at His feet, saying to Him, Lord, if You had been here, my brother would not have died.
11:33 耶稣看见她哭，并看见与她同来的犹太人也哭，就灵里悲愤，又受搅扰，
Then Jesus, when He saw her weeping and the Jews who came with her weeping, was moved with indignation in His spirit and was troubled,
11:34 便说，你们把他安放在那里？他们说，主阿，来看。
And He said, Where have you put him? They said to Him, Lord, come and see.
11:35 耶稣哭了。
Jesus wept.
11:36 犹太人就说，你看祂何等爱这人。
The Jews then said, Behold how He loved him!
11:37 其中有人说，这位开了瞎子眼睛的，岂不能叫这人也不死么？
But some of them said, Could not He who opened the eyes of the blind man also have caused that this man would not die?
11:38 耶稣又灵里悲愤，来到坟墓前；那坟墓是个洞，有一块石头挡着。
Jesus therefore, moved with indignation again in Himself, came to the tomb. Now it was a cave, and a stone was lying against it.
11:39 耶稣说，你们把石头挪开。那死人的姐姐马大对祂说，主阿，他已经臭了，因为这是第四天了。
Jesus said, Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of him who was deceased, said to Him, Lord, by now he smells, for it is the fourth day that he is there.
11:40 耶稣说，我不是对你说过，你若信，就必看见神的荣耀么？
Jesus said to her, Did I not tell you that if you believe you will see the glory of God?
11:41 他们就把石头挪开，耶稣举目向上说，父阿，我感谢你，因为你已经听我。
Then they took the stone away. And Jesus lifted up His eyes and said, Father, I thank You that You have heard Me.
11:42 我也知道你常听我，但我说这话，是为周围站着的群众，叫他们信是你差了我来。
And I knew that You always hear Me; but because of the crowd standing around, I said it, that they may believe that You have sent Me.
11:43 说了这话，就大声喊着说，拉撒路，出来！
And when He had said these things, He cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out!
11:44 那死人就出来了，手脚裹着布，脸上包着手巾。耶稣对他们说，解开，让他走。
And he who had died came out, bound hand and foot with cloths, and his face was bound about with a handkerchief. Jesus said to them, Loose him and let him
go.
11:45 那些来到马利亚那里的犹太人，见了耶稣所作的事，就多有信入祂的。
Many of the Jews therefore who had come to Mary and beheld the things that He did believed into Him.
11:46 但其中也有人到法利赛人那里去，将耶稣所作的事告诉他们。
But some of them went away to the Pharisees and told them the things that Jesus did.
11:47 于是祭司长和法利赛人聚集议会，说，这人行好些神迹，我们怎么办？
Then the chief priests and the Pharisees assembled a council and said, What do we do? For this man is doing many signs.
11:48 若这样由着祂，人人都要信入祂，罗马人也要来夺我们的土地和人民。
If we let Him do so, all will believe into Him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation.
11:49 他们当中有一个人，是当年作大祭司的该亚法，对他们说，你们什么都不知道，
But a certain one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said to them, You know nothing at all,
11:50 也不想想，一个人替百姓死，免得全民灭亡，就是你们的益处。
Nor do you take account of the fact that it is expedient for you that one man die for the people and that not the whole nation perish.
11:51 他这话不是从自己说的，是因他当年作大祭司，所以预言耶稣将要替这民死；
But this he did not say from himself, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus was to die for the nation,
11:52 不但替这民死，并要将神四散的儿女，都聚集归一。
And not for the nation only, but that He might also gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad.
11:53 从那日起，他们就商议要杀耶稣。
From that day therefore they took counsel to kill Him.
11:54 所以耶稣不再公开在犹太人中间往来，却离开那里，往靠近旷野的地方去，到了一座城，名叫以法莲，就在那里同门徒住下。
Jesus therefore no longer walked openly among the Jews, but went away from there to the region near the wilderness, into a city called Ephraim, and there He
remained with the disciples.
11:55 犹太人的逾越节近了，有许多人从乡下上耶路撒冷去，要在节前洁净自己。
Now the Passover of the Jews was near, and many went up to Jerusalem out of the country before the Passover in order to purify themselves.
11:56 他们就寻找耶稣，站在殿里彼此说，你们怎么看？祂绝不来过节么？
They then sought Jesus, and said to one another as they stood in the temple, What do you think? That He will not, by any means, come to the feast?
11:57 那时，祭司长和法利赛人早已下了命令，若有人知道耶稣在那里，就要报明，他们好去捉拿祂。
Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where He was, he should disclose it, so that they might arrest Him.
约翰福音 John 第 12 章
12:1 逾越节前六日，耶稣来到伯大尼，就是祂从死人中所复活的拉撒路所在的地方。
Then Jesus, six days before the Passover, came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead.
12:2 有人在那里为耶稣预备晚宴，马大伺候，拉撒路也在那同耶稣坐席的人中。
Therefore they made Him a supper there; and Martha served, but Lazarus was one of the ones reclining at table with Him.
12:3 那时，马利亚就拿着一磅至贵的真哪哒香膏，抹耶稣的脚，又用自己的头发去擦祂的脚，屋里就满了膏的香气。
Then Mary took a pound of ointment, of very valuable pure nard, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped His feet with her hair; and the house was filled with
the fragrance of the ointment.
12:4 祂门徒中的一个，就是那将要出卖耶稣的加略人犹大说，
But Judas Iscariot, one of His disciples, who was about to betray Him, said,
12:5 这香膏为什么不卖三百银币分给穷人？
Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?
12:6 他说这话，不是因他顾念穷人，乃因他是个贼，又带着钱囊，常取其中所存的。
But he said this not because it mattered to him concerning the poor, but because he was a thief, and holding the purse, carried off what was put into it.
12:7 耶稣就说，由她罢，她是为我安葬之日存留的。
Then Jesus said, Leave her alone; she has reserved it for the day of My burial.
12:8 因为常有穷人和你们同在，只是你们不常有我。
For the poor you always have with you, but you do not always have Me.
12:9 有一大群犹太人知道耶稣在那里，就都来了，不但是为耶稣的缘故，也是要看祂从死人中所复活的拉撒路。
Then a great crowd of the Jews found out that He was there, and they came, not because of Jesus only, but that they might also see Lazarus, whom He had
raised from the dead.
12:10 但祭司长商议，连拉撒路也要杀了，
And the chief priests took counsel to kill Lazarus also,
12:11 因为有好些犹太人，为拉撒路的缘故，离去并信入了耶稣。
Because on account of him many of the Jews went away and believed into Jesus.
12:12 第二天，有大批上来过节的群众，听见耶稣将到耶路撒冷，
On the next day, the great crowd who had come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming into Jerusalem,
12:13 就拿着棕树枝，出去迎接祂，喊着说，和散那，在主名里来的以色列王，是当受颂赞的！
Took the branches of the palm trees and went out to meet Him, and cried out, Hosanna! Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel!
12:14 耶稣得了一匹小驴，就骑上，如经上所记：
And Jesus, having found a young donkey, sat on it, as it is written,
12:15 “锡安的女儿，不要惧怕，看哪，你的王骑着驴驹来了。”
"Fear not, daughter of Zion; behold, your King comes, sitting on a donkey's colt.''
12:16 这些事，祂的门徒起先不明白，等到耶稣得了荣耀以后，他们才想起这话是指着祂写的，并且众人果然向祂这样行了。
These things His disciples did not understand at first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written of Him and that they
had done these things to Him.
12:17 当耶稣呼唤拉撒路，叫他从死人中复活，出坟墓的时候，同耶稣在那里的群众，就作见证。
The crowd therefore that was with Him when He called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead testified.
12:18 群众因听见耶稣行了这神迹，就去迎接祂。
For this reason the crowd also went and met Him, because they heard that He had done this sign.
12:19 于是法利赛人彼此说，看哪，你们是徒劳无益，你看世人都跟随祂去了。
The Pharisees then said to one another, You see that you are not doing anything worthwhile; behold, the world has gone after Him.
12:20 那时，上来过节敬拜的人中，有几个希利尼人。
And there were some Greeks among those who went up to worship at the feast.
12:21 他们来到加利利伯赛大的腓力跟前，求他说，先生，我们想要见耶稣。
These then came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, Sir, we wish to see Jesus.
12:22 腓力去告诉安得烈，安得烈同腓力去告诉耶稣。
Philip came and told Andrew; Andrew came, and Philip too, and they told Jesus.
12:23 耶稣回答说，人子得荣耀的时候到了。
And Jesus answered them, saying, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified.
12:24 我实实在在的告诉你们，一粒麦子不落在地里死了，仍旧是一粒；若是死了，就结出许多子粒来。
Truly, truly, I say to you, Unless the grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it abides alone; but if it dies, it bears much fruit.
12:25 爱惜自己魂生命的，就丧失魂生命；在这世上恨恶自己魂生命的，就要保守魂生命归入永远的生命。
He who loves his soul-life loses it; and he who hates his soul-life in this world shall keep it unto eternal life.
12:26 若有人服事我，就当跟从我；我在那里，服事我的人也要在那里。若有人服事我，我父必尊重他。
If anyone serves Me, let him follow Me; and where I am, there also My servant will be. If anyone serves Me, the Father will honor him.
12:27 现今我的魂受搅扰，我说什么才好？父阿，救我脱离这时刻，但我是为此才来到这时刻的。
Now is My soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save Me out of this hour. But for this reason I have come to this hour.
12:28 父阿，愿你荣耀你的名。当时就有声音从天上出来，说，我已经荣耀了，还要再荣耀。
Father, glorify Your name. Then a voice came out of heaven: I have both glorified it and will glorify it again.
12:29 站着的群众听见了，就说，打雷了；另有的说，有天使对祂说话。
The crowd therefore which stood by and heard it said that there had been thunder; others said, An angel has spoken to Him.
12:30 耶稣回答说，这声音不是为我，乃是为你们来的。
Jesus answered and said, This voice has not come for My sake, but for your sake.
12:31 现在这世界受审判，这世界的王要被赶出去。
Now is the judgment of this world; now shall the ruler of this world be cast out.
12:32 我若从地上被举起来，就要吸引万人来归我。
And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men to Myself.
12:33 耶稣这话是指明自己将要怎样死说的。
But He said this signifying by what kind of death He was about to die.
12:34 群众回答说，我们从律法上听见，基督是永远长存的，你怎么说，人子必须被举起来？这人子是谁？
The crowd therefore answered Him, We have heard out of the law that the Christ abides forever; and how is it that You say, The Son of Man must be lifted up?
Who is this Son of Man?
12:35 耶稣就对他们说，光在你们中间，还有不多的时候，应当趁着有光行走，免得黑暗胜过你们；那在黑暗里行走的，不知道往何处去。
Jesus then said to them, The light is still among you a little while. Walk while you have the light so that darkness may not overcome you; and he who walks in the
darkness does not know where he is going.
12:36 你们应当趁着有光，信入这光，使你们成为光的儿子。耶稣说了这话，就离开他们，隐藏了。
While you have the light, believe into the light, so that you may become sons of light. Jesus said these things, and He went away and was hidden from them.
12:37 祂虽然在他们面前行了许多神迹，他们还是不信入祂。
But though He had done so many signs before them, they did not believe into Him,
12:38 这是要应验申言者以赛亚的话，说，“主阿，我们所传给人听的，有谁信？主的膀臂向谁显露？”
That the word of the prophet Isaiah which he said might be fulfilled, "Lord, who has believed our report? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?''
12:39 他们所以不能信，因为以赛亚又说，
For this reason they could not believe, because again Isaiah said,
12:40 “主叫他们瞎了眼，硬了心，免得他们眼睛看见，心里明白，回转过来，我就医治他们。”
"He has blinded their eyes and He hardened their heart, that they might not see with their eyes and understand with their heart and turn, and I will heal them.''
12:41 以赛亚说这些话，是因为看见了祂的荣耀，就指着祂说的。
These things said Isaiah because he saw His glory and spoke concerning Him.
12:42 虽然如此，官长中却有好些信入祂的，只因法利赛人的缘故，就不承认，恐怕被赶出会堂。
Nevertheless even many of the rulers believed into Him, but because of the Pharisees they did not confess Him, so that they would not be put out of the
synagogue;
12:43 这是因为他们爱人的荣耀，过于爱神的荣耀。
For they loved the glory of men more than the glory of God.
12:44 耶稣喊着说，信入我的，不是信入我，乃是信入那差我来的。
But Jesus cried out and said, He who believes into Me does not believe into Me, but into Him who sent Me;
12:45 看见我的，就是看见那差我来的。
And he who beholds Me beholds Him who sent Me.
12:46 我到世上来作光，叫一切信入我的，不住在黑暗里。
I have come as a light into the world, that every one who believes into Me would not remain in darkness.
12:47 若有人听见我的话不遵守，我不审判他；因为我来不是要审判世人，乃是要拯救世人。
And if anyone hears My words and does not keep them, I do not judge him; for I have not come to judge the world, but to save the world.
12:48 弃绝我不领受我话的人，有审判他的，就是我所讲的话，在末日要审判他。
He who rejects Me and does not receive My words has one who judges him; the word which I have spoken, that will judge him in the last day.
12:49 因为我所讲的没有出于自己的；惟有差我来的父，已经给了我命令，叫我说什么，讲什么。
For I have not spoken from Myself; but the Father who sent Me, He Himself has given Me commandment, what to say and what to speak.
12:50 我也知道祂的命令就是永远的生命。所以我所讲的，乃是父怎样告诉我，我就照样讲。
And I know that His commandment is eternal life. The things therefore that I speak, even as the Father has said to Me, so I speak.
约翰福音 John 第 13 章
13:1 逾越节以前，耶稣知道自己离世归父的时候到了。祂既爱世间属自己的人，就爱他们到底。
Now before the Feast of the Passover, Jesus knowing that His hour had come for Him to depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved His own who were
in the world, He loved them to the uttermost.
13:2 吃晚饭的时候，魔鬼已将出卖耶稣的意思，放在西门的儿子加略人犹大心里。
And while supper was taking place, the devil having already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, that he should betray Him,
13:3 耶稣知道父已将万有交在祂手里，且知道自己是从神出来的，又要往神那里去，
Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all into His hands and that He had come forth from God and was going to God,
13:4 就起身离席，脱了外衣，拿一条手巾束腰。
Rose from supper and laid aside His outer garments; and taking a towel, He girded Himself;
13:5 随后把水倒在盆里，就开始洗门徒的脚，并用自己所束的手巾擦干。
Then He poured water into the basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel with which He was girded.
13:6 来到西门彼得那里，彼得对祂说，主阿，你洗我的脚么？
He came then to Simon Peter. Peter said to Him, Lord, do You wash my feet?
13:7 耶稣回答说，我所作的，你如今不晓得，后来必明白。
Jesus answered and said to him, What I am doing you do not know now, but you will know after these things.
13:8 彼得说，你绝不可洗我的脚，永远不可。耶稣回答说，我若不洗你，你就与我无分了。
Peter said to Him, You shall by no means wash my feet forever. Jesus answered him, Unless I wash you, you have no part with Me.
13:9 西门彼得对祂说，主阿，不但我的脚，连手和头也要洗。
Simon Peter said to Him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head.
13:10 耶稣说，凡洗过澡的人，除了脚以外，没有需要洗的，他乃是完全洁净的。你们是洁净的，然而不都是洁净的。
Jesus said to him, He who is bathed has no need except to wash his feet, but is wholly clean; and you are clean, but not all of you.
13:11 耶稣原晓得要出卖祂的是谁，所以说，你们不都是洁净的。
For He knew the one betraying Him; for this reason He said, Not all of you are clean.
13:12 耶稣洗完了他们的脚，就穿上外衣，又坐下，对他们说，我向你们所作的，你们明白么？
Then when He had washed their feet and taken His outer garments and reclined at the table again, He said to them, Do you know what I have done to you?
13:13 你们称呼我夫子，称呼我主，你们说的不错，我本来就是。
You call Me the Teacher and the Lord, and you say rightly, for I am.
13:14 我是主，是夫子，尚且洗你们的脚，你们也当彼此洗脚。
If I then, the Lord and the Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet.
13:15 我给你们作了榜样，叫你们照着我向你们所作的去作。
For I have given you an example so that you also may do even as I have done to you.
13:16 我实实在在的告诉你们，奴仆并不大过主人，受差遣的也不大过差遣他的。
Truly, truly, I say to you, A slave is not greater than his master, nor one who is sent greater than the one who sends him.
13:17 你们既晓得这事，若是去行就有福了。
If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them.
13:18 我这话不是指着你们众人说的，我知道我所拣选的是谁；但这是要应验经书：“同我吃饭的人，举起脚跟踢我。”
I do not speak concerning all of you. I know whom I have chosen, but that the Scripture may be fulfilled, "He who eats bread with Me has lifted up his heel against
Me.''
13:19 现在事情还没有发生，我先告诉你们，叫你们到事情发生的时候，可以信我是。
From now on I am telling you before it happens, so that when it happens, you may believe that I am.
13:20 我实实在在的告诉你们，有人接待我所差遣的，就是接待我；接待我，就是接待那差遣我的。
Truly, truly, I say to you, He who receives whomever I shall send receives Me, and he who receives Me receives Him who sent Me.
13:21 耶稣说了这话，灵里受搅扰，就指证说，我实实在在的告诉你们，你们中间有一个人要出卖我了。
When Jesus had said these things, He became troubled in His spirit, and He testified and said, Truly, truly, I say to you that one of you will betray Me.
13:22 门徒彼此对看，猜不透祂所说的是谁。
The disciples looked at one another, perplexed over whom He was speaking about.
13:23 有一个门徒，是耶稣所爱的，侧身挨近耶稣的怀里。
One of His disciples, whom Jesus loved, was reclining on Jesus' bosom.
13:24 西门彼得向他点头，要他问主是指着谁说的。
Simon Peter therefore nodded to him to inquire who it might be about whom He was speaking.
13:25 那门徒便就势靠着耶稣的胸膛，问祂说，主阿，是谁？
Then he, while reclining thus on Jesus' breast, said to Him, Lord, who is it?
13:26 耶稣回答说，我蘸一点饼给谁，就是谁。耶稣就蘸了一点饼，递给西门的儿子加略人犹大。
Jesus answered, It is he for whom I will dip the morsel and to whom I will give it. And dipping the morsel, He gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon.
13:27 他拿了那点饼以后，撒但就进入他里面。耶稣便对他说，你所要作的快作吧。
And at that moment, after the morsel, Satan entered into him. Jesus therefore said to him, What you do, do quickly.
13:28 同席的人，没有一个知道耶稣为什么对他说这话。
But none of those reclining at table knew why He said this to him.
13:29 有人因犹大带着钱囊，以为耶稣是对他说，你去买我们过节所需用的东西，或是叫他拿什么分给穷人。
For some supposed, since Judas held the purse, that Jesus was saying to him, Buy the things that we have need of for the feast, or that he should give something
to the poor.
13:30 犹大接受了那点饼，就立即出去，那时候是夜间了。
Therefore having taken the morsel, he went out immediately; and it was night.
13:31 他既出去，耶稣就说，如今人子得了荣耀，神在人子身上也得了荣耀。
Then when he went out, Jesus said, Now has the Son of Man been glorified, and God has been glorified in Him.
13:32 神若在人子身上得了荣耀，祂也要在自己身上荣耀人子，并且要快快的荣耀祂。
If God has been glorified in Him, God will also glorify Him in Himself, and He will glorify Him immediately.
13:33 孩子们，我还有不多的时候与你们同在，以后你们要找我，但我曾对犹太人说过，如今也照样对你们说，我所去的地方，你们不能到。
Little children, I am still with you a little while; you will seek Me, and even as I said to the Jews, Where I am going, you cannot come, now I say to you also.
13:34 我赐给你们一条新诫命，乃是叫你们彼此相爱，正如我爱你们，为使你们也彼此相爱。
A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another, even as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
13:35 你们若彼此相爱，众人因此就认出你们是我的门徒了。
By this shall all men know that you are My disciples, if you have love for one another.
13:36 西门彼得问耶稣说，主阿，你往那里去？耶稣回答说，我所去的地方，你现在不能跟我去，后来却要跟我去。
Simon Peter said to Him, Lord, where are You going? Jesus answered him, Where I go you cannot follow Me now, but you will follow later.
13:37 彼得说，主阿，我为什么现在不能跟你去？我愿意为你舍命。
Peter said to Him, Lord, why can't I follow You now? I will lay down my life for You.
13:38 耶稣回答说，你愿意为我舍命么？我实实在在的告诉你，鸡叫以前，你要三次不认我。
Jesus answered, Will you lay down your life for Me? Truly, truly, I say to you, A rooster shall by no means crow until you deny Me three times.
约翰福音 John 第 14 章
14:1 你们心里不要受搅扰，你们当信入神，也当信入我。
Do not let your heart be troubled; believe into God, believe also into Me.
14:2 在我父的家里，有许多住处；若是没有，我早已告诉你们了；我去是为你们预备地方。
In My Father's house are many abodes; if it were not so, I would have told you; for I go to prepare a place for you.
14:3 我若去为你们预备了地方，就再来接你们到我那里，我在那里，叫你们也在那里。
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I am coming again and will receive you to Myself, so that where I am you also may be.
14:4 我往那里去，你们知道那条路。
And where I am going you know the way.
14:5 多马对祂说，主阿，我们不知道你往那里去，怎能知道那条路？
Thomas said to Him, Lord, we do not know where You are going; how can we know the way?
14:6 耶稣说，我就是道路、实际、生命；若不借着我，没有人能到父那里去。
Jesus said to him, I am the way and the reality and the life; no one comes to the Father except through Me.
14:7 你们若认识我，也就认识我的父；从今以后，你们认识祂，并且已经看见祂。
If you had known Me, you would have known My Father also; and henceforth you know Him and have seen Him.
14:8 腓力对祂说，主阿，将父显给我们看，我们就知足了。
Philip said to Him, Lord, show us the Father and it is sufficient for us.
14:9 耶稣对他说，腓力，我与你们同在这样长久，你还不认识我么？人看见了我，就是看见了父；你怎么说，将父显给我们看？
Jesus said to him, Have I been so long a time with you, and you have not known Me, Philip? He who has seen Me has seen the Father; how is it that you say,
Show us the Father?
14:10 我在父里面，父在我里面，你不信么？我对你们所说的话，不是我从自己说的，乃是住在我里面的父作祂自己的事。
Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in Me? The words that I say to you I do not speak from Myself, but the Father who abides in Me does
His works.
14:11 你们当信我，我在父里面，父在我里面；即或不然，也当因我所作的事而信。
Believe Me that I am in the Father and the Father is in Me; but if not, believe because of the works themselves.
14:12 我实实在在的告诉你们，我所作的事，信入我的人也要作，并且要作比这更大的事，因为我往父那里去。
Truly, truly, I say to you, He who believes into Me, the works which I do he shall do also; and greater than these he shall do because I am going to the Father.
14:13 你们在我的名里无论求什么，我必作成，叫父在子身上得荣耀。
And whatever you ask in My name, that I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
14:14 你们若在我的名里求我什么，我必作成。
If you ask Me anything in My name, I will do it.
14:15 你们若爱我，就必遵守我的诫命。
If you love Me, you will keep My commandments.
14:16 我要求父，祂必赐给你们另一位保惠师，叫祂永远与你们同在，
And I will ask the Father, and He will give you another Comforter, that He may be with you forever,
14:17 就是实际的灵，乃世人不能接受的，因为不见祂，也不认识祂；你们却认识祂，因祂与你们同住，且要在你们里面。
Even the Spirit of reality, whom the world cannot receive, because it does not behold Him or know Him; but you know Him, because He abides with you and shall
be in you.
14:18 我不撇下你们为孤儿，我正往你们这里来。
I will not leave you as orphans; I am coming to you.
14:19 还有不多的时候，世人不再看见我，你们却看见我，因为我活着，你们也要活着。
Yet a little while and the world beholds Me no longer, but you behold Me; because I live, you also shall live.
14:20 到那日，你们就知道我在我父里面，你们在我里面，我也在你们里面。
In that day you will know that I am in My Father, and you in Me, and I in you.
14:21 有了我的诫命又遵守的，这人就是爱我的；爱我的必蒙我父爱他，我也要爱他，并且要亲自向他显现。
He who has My commandments and keeps them, he is the one who loves Me; and he who loves Me will be loved by My Father, and I will love him and will
manifest Myself to him.
14:22 犹大（不是那加略人）问耶稣说，主阿，为什么要亲自向我们显现，不向世人显现？
Judas, not Iscariot, said to Him, Lord, and what has happened that You are to manifest Yourself to us and not to the world?
14:23 耶稣回答说，人若爱我，就必遵守我的话，我父也必爱他，并且我们要到他那里去，同他安排住处。
Jesus answered and said to him, If anyone loves Me, he will keep My word, and My Father will love him, and We will come to him and make an abode with him.
14:24 那不爱我的，就不遵守我的话；你们所听见的话不是我的，乃是差我来之父的。
He who does not love Me does not keep My words; and the word which you hear is not Mine, but the Father's who sent Me.
14:25 我还与你们同住的时候，已将这些话对你们说了。
These things I have spoken to you while abiding with you;
14:26 但保惠师，就是父在我的名里所要差来的圣灵，祂要将一切的事教导你们，并且要叫你们想起我对你们所说的一切话。
But the Comforter, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in My name, He will teach you all things and remind you of all the things which I have said to you.
14:27 我留下平安给你们，我将我的平安赐给你们；我所赐给你们的，不像世人所赐的。你们心里不要受搅扰，也不要胆怯。
Peace I leave with you; My peace I give to you; not as the world gives do I give to you. Do not let your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.
14:28 你们听见我曾对你们说，我去，并且我正往你们这里来。你们若爱我，因我往父那里去，就必喜乐，因为父比我大。
You have heard that I said to you, I am going away and I am coming to you. If you loved Me, you would rejoice because I am going to the Father, for the Father is
greater than I.
14:29 现在事情还没有发生，我就告诉了你们，叫你们到事情发生的时候，可以信。
And now I have told you before it happens, so that when it happens you may believe.
14:30 以后我不再同你们多说话，因为这世界的王将到，他在我里面是毫无所有；
I will no longer speak much with you, for the ruler of the world is coming, and in Me he has nothing;
14:31 但要叫世人知道我爱父，并且父怎样吩咐我，我就怎样行。起来，我们离开这里走吧。
But this is so that the world may know that I love the Father, and as the Father commanded Me, so I do. Rise, let us go from here.
约翰福音 John 第 15 章
15:1 我是真葡萄树，我父是栽培的人。
I am the true vine, and My Father is the husbandman.
15:2 凡在我里面不结果子的枝子，祂就剪去；凡结果子的，祂就修理干净，使枝子结果子更多。
Every branch in Me that does not bear fruit, He takes it away; and every branch that bears fruit, He prunes it that it may bear more fruit.
15:3 现在你们因我讲给你们的话，已经干净了。
You are already clean because of the word which I have spoken to you.
15:4 你们要住在我里面，我也住在你们里面。枝子若不住在葡萄树上，自己就不能结果子，你们若不住在我里面，也是这样。
Abide in Me and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides in the vine, so neither can you unless you abide in Me.
15:5 我是葡萄树，你们是枝子；住在我里面的，我也住在他里面，这人就多结果子；因为离了我，你们就不能作什么。
I am the vine; you are the branches. He who abides in Me and I in him, he bears much fruit; for apart from Me you can do nothing.
15:6 人若不住在我里面，就像枝子丢在外面枯干了，人收集起来，扔在火里烧了。
If one does not abide in Me, he is cast out as a branch and is dried up; and they gather them and cast them into the fire, and they are burned.
15:7 你们若住在我里面，我的话也住在你们里面，凡你们所愿意的，祈求就给你们成就。
If you abide in Me and My words abide in you, ask whatever you will, and it shall be done for you.
15:8 你们多结果子，我父就因此得荣耀，你们也就是我的门徒了。
In this is My Father glorified, that you bear much fruit and so you will become My disciples.
15:9 我爱你们，正如父爱我一样；你们要住在我的爱里。
As the Father has loved Me, I also have loved you; abide in My love.
15:10 你们若遵守我的诫命，就住在我的爱里，正如我遵守了我父的命令，住在祂的爱里。
If you keep My commandments, you will abide in My love; even as I have kept My Father's commandments and abide in His love.
15:11 这些事我已经对你们说了，是要叫我的喜乐可以在你们里面，并叫你们的喜乐可以满足。
These things I have spoken to you that My joy may be in you and that your joy may be made full.
15:12 你们要彼此相爱，像我爱你们一样，这就是我的诫命。
This is My commandment, that you love one another even as I have loved you.
15:13 人为朋友舍命，人的爱没有比这个大的。
No one has greater love than this, that one lay down his life for his friends.
15:14 你们若遵行我所吩咐你们的，就是我的朋友了。
You are My friends if you do what I command you.
15:15 以后我不再称你们为奴仆，因为奴仆不知道主人所作的事；我乃称你们为朋友，因我从我父所听见的，都已经告诉你们了。
No longer do I call you slaves, for the slave does not know what his master is doing; but I have called you friends, for all the things which I have heard from My
Father I have made known to you.
15:16 不是你们拣选了我，乃是我拣选了你们，并且立了你们，要你们前去，并要你们结果子，且要你们的果子常存，使你们在我的名里，无论向父求什
么，祂就赐给你们。
You did not choose Me, but I chose you, and I set you that you should go forth and bear fruit and that your fruit should remain, that whatever you ask the Father in
My name, He may give you.
15:17 我将这些事吩咐你们，是要叫你们彼此相爱。
These things I command you that you may love one another.
15:18 世界若恨你们，你们要知道在恨你们以先，世界已经恨我了。
If the world hates you, know that it has hated Me before you.
15:19 你们若属世界，世界必爱属自己的；只因你们不属世界，乃是我从世界中把你们拣选出来，所以世界就恨你们。
If you were of the world, the world would love its own; but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you.
15:20 你们要记得我从前对你们所说的话，奴仆并不大过主人。他们若逼迫了我，也要逼迫你们；若遵守了我的话，也要遵守你们的话。
Remember the word which I said to you, A slave is not greater than his master. If they have persecuted Me, they will persecute you also; if they have kept My
word, they will keep yours also.
15:21 但他们因我的名，要向你们行这一切的事，因为他们不认识那差我来的。
But all these things they will do to you because of My name, because they do not know Him who sent Me.
15:22 我若没有来对他们说话，他们就没有罪；但如今他们的罪无可推诿了。
If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have sin; but now they have no excuse for their sin.
15:23 恨我的，也恨我的父。
He who hates Me hates My Father also.
15:24 我若没有在他们中间行过别人未曾行的事，他们就没有罪；但如今连我与我的父，他们都看见了，也都恨了。
If I did not do among them the works which no one else has done, they would not have sin; but now they have both seen and hated both Me and My Father.
15:25 这不过是要应验他们律法上所写的话：“他们无故的恨我。”
But it is so that the word written in their law may be fulfilled, "They hated Me without cause.''
15:26 但我要从父差保惠师来，就是从父出来实际的灵，祂来了，就要为我作见证；
But when the Comforter comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of reality, who proceeds from the Father, He will testify concerning Me;
15:27 你们也要作见证，因为你们从起初就与我同在。
And you testify also, because from the beginning you have been with Me.
约翰福音 John 第 16 章
16:1 我已将这些事对你们说了，免得你们绊跌。
These things I have spoken to you so that you would not be stumbled.
16:2 人要把你们赶出会堂；并且时候将到，凡杀你们的，就以为是事奉神。
They will put you out of the synagogues; but an hour is coming for every one who kills you to think that he is offering service to God.
16:3 他们这样行，是因未曾认识父，也未曾认识我。
And these things they will do because they have not known the Father nor Me.
16:4 我将这些事对你们说了，是要叫你们到了时候，可以想起我对你们说过了。我起初没有将这些事告诉你们，因为我与你们同在。
But these things I have spoken to you that when their hour comes you may remember them, that I told you of them. Now these things I have not said to you from
the beginning, because I was with you.
16:5 现今我往差我来的那里去，你们中间并没有人问我，你往那里去？
But now I am going to Him who sent Me; and none of you asks Me, Where are You going?
16:6 只因我将这些事对你们说了，你们就满心忧愁。
But because I have spoken these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart.
16:7 然而我将真情告诉你们，我去是与你们有益的。因为我若不去，保惠师就不到你们这里来；我若去，就差祂到你们这里来。
But I tell you the truth, It is expedient for you that I go away; for if I do not go away, the Comforter will not come to you; but if I go, I will send Him to you.
16:8 祂来了，就要为罪，为义，为审判，使世人知罪自责。
And when He comes, He will convict the world concerning sin and concerning righteousness and concerning judgment:
16:9 为罪，是因他们不信入我；
Concerning sin, because they do not believe into Me;
16:10 为义，是因我往父那里去，你们就不再看见我；
And concerning righteousness, because I am going to the Father and you no longer behold Me;
16:11 为审判，是因这世界的王受了审判。
And concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged.
16:12 我还有好些事要告诉你们，但你们现在担当不了。
I have yet many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now.
16:13 只等实际的灵来了，祂要引导你们进入一切的实际；因为祂不是从自己说的，乃是把祂所听见的都说出来，并要把要来的事宣示与你们。
But when He, the Spirit of reality, comes, He will guide you into all the reality; for He will not speak from Himself, but what He hears He will speak; and He will
declare to you the things that are coming.
16:14 祂要荣耀我，因为祂要从我有所领受而宣示与你们。
He will glorify Me, for He will receive of Mine and will declare it to you.
16:15 凡父所有的，都是我的，所以我说，祂从我有所领受而要宣示与你们。
All that the Father has is Mine; for this reason I have said that He receives of Mine and will declare it to you.
16:16 等不多时，你们就不再看见我；再等不多时，你们还要看见我。
A little while and you no longer behold Me, and again a little while and you will see Me.
16:17 有几个门徒就彼此说，祂对我们说，等不多时，你们就不得看见我；再等不多时，你们还要看见我；又说，因我往父那里去；这是什么意思？
Some of His disciples then said to one another, What is this that He says to us, A little while and you do not behold Me, and again a little while and you will see
Me; and, Because I am going to the Father?
16:18 于是他们说，祂说等不多时，到底是什么意思？我们不知道祂说什么。
Therefore they said, What is this that He says, A little while? We do not know what He is talking about.
16:19 耶稣看出他们想要问祂，就说，我说等不多时，你们就不得看见我；再等不多时，你们还要看见我；你们为这话彼此相问么？
Jesus knew that they wanted to ask Him and He said to them, Are you inquiring among yourselves concerning this, that I said, A little while and you do not
behold Me, and again a little while and you will see Me?
16:20 我实实在在的告诉你们，你们将要痛哭哀号，世人倒要喜乐；你们将要忧愁，然而你们的忧愁，要变为喜乐。
Truly, truly, I say to you that you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice; you will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will be turned into joy.
16:21 妇人生产的时候会有忧愁，因为她的时候到了；既生了孩子，就不再记得那苦楚，因为欢喜世上生了一个人。
A woman, when she gives birth, has sorrow because her hour has come; but when she brings forth the little child, she no longer remembers the affliction
because of the joy that a man has been born into the world.
16:22 你们现在也有忧愁，但我要再见你们，你们的心就喜乐了，并且你们的喜乐，没有人能从你们夺去。
Therefore you also now have sorrow; but I will see you again and your heart will rejoice, and no one takes your joy away from you.
16:23 到那日，你们就不问我什么了。我实实在在的告诉你们，你们在我的名里，无论向父求什么，祂必赐给你们。
And in that day you will ask Me nothing. Truly, truly, I say to you, Whatever you ask the Father in My name, He will give to you.
16:24 向来你们没有在我的名里求什么，现在你们求，就必得着，叫你们的喜乐可以满足。
Until now you have asked for nothing in My name; ask and you shall receive, that your joy may be made full.
16:25 这些事，我用比喻对你们说了；时候将到，我不再用比喻对你们说，乃要将父明明的告诉你们。
These things I have spoken to you in parables; an hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in parables, but I will report to you plainly concerning the
Father.
16:26 到那日，你们要在我的名里求；我并不对你们说，我要为你们求父；
In that day you will ask in My name, and I do not say to you that I will ask the Father concerning you,
16:27 父自己爱你们，因为你们已经爱我，又信我是从神出来的。
For the Father Himself loves you, because you have loved Me and have believed that I came forth from God.
16:28 我是出于父而前来的，并且进入世界；我又离开世界，往父那里去。
I came forth out from the Father and have come into the world; again, I am leaving the world and am going to the Father.
16:29 门徒说，看哪，如今你是明说，不是用比喻说了。
His disciples said, Behold, now You are speaking plainly and not saying any parable.
16:30 现在我们晓得你凡事都知道，也不用人问你，所以我们信你是从神出来的。
Now we know that You know all things and have no need that anyone ask You; by this we believe that You came forth from God.
16:31 耶稣回答说，现在你们信么？
Jesus answered them, Do you now believe?
16:32 看哪，时候将到，且是已经到了，你们要分散，各归自己的地方去，留下我独自一人；其实我不是独自一人，因为有父与我同在。
Behold, an hour is coming, and has come, that you will be scattered each to his own place and will leave Me alone; yet I am not alone, because the Father is with
Me.
16:33 我将这些事对你们说了，是要叫你们在我里面有平安。在世上你们有苦难，但你们可以放心，我已经胜了世界。
These things I have spoken to you that in Me you may have peace. In the world you have affliction, but take courage; I have overcome the world.
约翰福音 John 第 17 章
17:1 耶稣说了这些话，就举目望天说，父阿，时候到了，愿你荣耀你的儿子，使儿子也荣耀你；
These things Jesus spoke, and lifting up His eyes to heaven, He said, Father, the hour has come; glorify Your Son that the Son may glorify You;
17:2 正如你曾赐给祂权柄，管理一切属肉体的人，叫祂将永远的生命赐给一切你所赐给祂的人。
Even as You have given Him authority over all flesh to give eternal life to all whom You have given Him.
17:3 认识你独一的真神，并你所差来的耶稣基督，这就是永远的生命。
And this is eternal life, that they may know You, the only true God, and Him whom You have sent, Jesus Christ.
17:4 我在地上已经荣耀你，你交给我要我作的工，我已经完成了。
I have glorified You on earth, finishing the work which You have given Me to do.
17:5 父阿，现在求你使我与你同得荣耀，就是未有世界以先，我与你同有的荣耀。
And now, glorify Me along with Yourself, Father, with the glory which I had with You before the world was.
17:6 你从世上赐给我的人，我已将你的名显明与他们。他们本是你的，你将他们赐给我，他们也遵守了你的话。
I have manifested Your name to the men whom You gave Me out of the world. They were Yours, and You gave them to Me, and they have kept Your word.
17:7 如今他们知道，凡你所赐给我的，都是从你来的；
Now they have come to know that all that You have given Me is from You,
17:8 因为你所赐给我的话，我已经赐给他们，他们也领受了，又确实知道我是从你出来的，并且信你差了我来。
For the words which You gave Me I have given to them, and they received them and knew truly that I came forth from You, and they have believed that You sent
Me.
17:9 我为他们祈求，不为世人祈求，乃为你所赐给我的人祈求，因他们本是你的。
I ask concerning them; I do not ask concerning the world, but concerning those whom You have given Me, for they are Yours;
17:10 凡是我的都是你的，你的也是我的，并且我已经在他们身上得了荣耀。
And all that is Mine is Yours, and Yours Mine; and I have been glorified in them.
17:11 我不再在世上，他们却在世上，我往你那里去。圣父阿，求你在你的名，就是你所赐给我的名里，保守他们，使他们成为一，像我们一样。
And I am no longer in the world; yet they are in the world, and I am coming to You. Holy Father, keep them in Your name, which You have given to Me, that they
may be one even as We are.
17:12 我与他们同在的时候，我在你的名，就是你所赐给我的名里，保守了他们，也护卫了他们，其中除了那灭亡之子，没有一个灭亡的，好叫经书得着
应验。
When I was with them, I kept them in Your name, which You have given to Me, and I guarded them; and not one of them perished, except the son of perdition,
that the Scripture might be fulfilled.
17:13 现在我往你那里去，我还在世上说这话，是叫他们里面充满我的喜乐。
But now I am coming to You, and these things I speak in the world that they may have My joy made full in themselves.
17:14 我已将你的话赐给他们，世界又恨他们，因为他们不属世界，正如我不属世界一样。
I have given them Your word, and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world even as I am not of the world.
17:15 我不求你使他们离开世界，只求你保守他们脱离那恶者。
I do not ask that You would take them out of the world, but that You would keep them out of the hands of the evil one.
17:16 他们不属世界，正如我不属世界一样。
They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.
17:17 求你用真理圣别他们，你的话就是真理。
Sanctify them in the truth; Your word is truth.
17:18 你怎样差我到世上，我也照样差他们到世上。
As You have sent Me into the world, I also have sent them into the world.
17:19 我为他们的缘故，圣别自己，使他们也在真理中得以圣别。
And for their sake I sanctify Myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth.
17:20 我不但为这些人祈求，也为那些因他们的话信入我的人祈求，
And I do not ask concerning these only, but concerning those also who believe into Me through their word,
17:21 使他们都成为一；正如你父在我里面，我在你里面，使他们也在我们里面，叫世人可以信你差了我来。
That they all may be one; even as You, Father, are in Me and I in You, that they also may be in Us; that the world may believe that You have sent Me.
17:22 你所赐给我的荣耀，我已赐给他们，使他们成为一，正如我们是一一样。
And the glory which You have given Me I have given to them, that they may be one, even as We are one;
17:23 我在他们里面，你在我里面，使他们被成全成为一，叫世人知道是你差了我来，并且知道你爱他们如同爱我一样。
I in them, and You in Me, that they may be perfected into one, that the world may know that You have sent Me and have loved them even as You have loved Me.
17:24 父阿，我在那里，愿你所赐给我的人，也同我在那里，叫他们看见你所赐给我的荣耀，因为创立世界以前，你已经爱我了。
Father, concerning that which You have given Me, I desire that they also may be with Me where I am, that they may behold My glory, which You have given Me,
for You loved Me before the foundation of the world.
17:25 公义的父阿，世人未曾认识你，我却认识你，这些人也知道你差了我来。
Righteous Father, though the world has not known You, yet I have known You, and these have known that You have sent Me.
17:26 我已叫他们认识了你的名，并且还要叫他们认识，使你爱我的爱在他们里面，我也在他们里面。
And I have made Your name known to them and will yet make it known, that the love with which You have loved Me may be in them, and I in them.
约翰福音 John 第 18 章
18:1 耶稣说了这些话，就同门徒出去，过了汲沦溪，在那里有一个园子，祂和门徒进去了。
When Jesus had said these things, He went forth with His disciples across the brook Kedron, where there was a garden, into which He entered as well as His
disciples.
18:2 出卖耶稣的犹大也知道那地方，因为耶稣同门徒时常到那里聚集。
And Judas also, who was betraying Him, knew the place, for Jesus often gathered there with His disciples.
18:3 犹大领了一队兵，和祭司长并法利赛人的差役，拿着火把、灯笼、武器，来到那里。
Then Judas, having gotten the cohort and some attendants from the chief priests and Pharisees, came there with torches and lamps and weapons.
18:4 耶稣知道将要临到自己的一切事，就出来，对他们说，你们找谁？
Jesus therefore, knowing all the things that were coming upon Him, went forth and said to them, Whom do you seek?
18:5 他们回答说，拿撒勒人耶稣。祂说，我是。出卖祂的犹大也同他们站在一起。
They answered Him, Jesus the Nazarene. He said to them, I am. And Judas also, who was betraying Him, was standing with them.
18:6 耶稣一说，我是，他们就退后，倒在地上。
When therefore He said to them, I am, they drew back and fell to the ground.
18:7 祂又问他们说，你们找谁？他们说，拿撒勒人耶稣。
Then again He asked them, Whom do you seek? And they said, Jesus the Nazarene.
18:8 耶稣回答说，我已经告诉你们，我是；你们若找我，就让这些人走吧。
Jesus answered, I told you that I am; if therefore you seek Me, let these go away,
18:9 这是要应验耶稣从前所说的话：你所赐给我的人，我一个也没有失落。
That the word might be fulfilled which He spoke, Of those whom You have given Me, I have not lost one.
18:10 西门彼得带着一把刀，就拔出来，将大祭司的奴仆砍了一刀，削掉他的右耳，那奴仆名叫马勒古。
Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and struck the slave of the high priest and cut off his right ear; and the slave's name was Malchus.
18:11 耶稣就对彼得说，收刀入鞘吧！我父所给我的那杯，我岂可不喝？
Jesus therefore said to Peter, Put the sword into its sheath. The cup which the Father has given Me, shall I not drink it?
18:12 那队兵和千夫长并犹太人的差役，就捉住耶稣，把祂捆绑起来，
Then the cohort and the commander and the attendants of the Jews seized Jesus and bound Him
18:13 先带到亚那跟前，因为亚那是当年大祭司该亚法的岳父。
And led Him away to Annas first; for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was high priest that year.
18:14 这该亚法就是从前给犹太人出过主意说，一个人替百姓死是有益的那位。
Now it was Caiaphas who had advised the Jews that it was expedient for one man to die for the people.
18:15 西门彼得跟着耶稣，另有一个门徒也跟着。那门徒是大祭司所认识的，他就同耶稣进了大祭司的院子。
And Simon Peter followed Jesus, as well as another disciple. And that disciple was known to the high priest, and he entered with Jesus into the court of the high
priest;
18:16 彼得却站在门外。大祭司所认识的那个门徒出来，和看门的使女说了一声，就领彼得进去。
But Peter stood at the door outside. Then the other disciple, the one known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the maid who kept the door and brought
Peter in.
18:17 那看门的使女对彼得说，你不也是这人的门徒么？他说，我不是。
Then the maid who kept the door said to Peter, Are you not also one of this man's disciples? He said, I am not.
18:18 奴仆和差役，因为寒冷，就生了炭火，站着烤火，彼得也同他们站着烤火。
Now the slaves and the attendants were standing there, having made a fire of coals, for it was cold, and they were warming themselves; and Peter also was with
them, standing and warming himself.
18:19 大祭司就盘问耶稣关于祂门徒和祂教训的事。
The high priest then questioned Jesus concerning His disciples and concerning His teaching.
18:20 耶稣回答说，我向来是公开的对世人说话；我常在众多犹太人聚集的会堂和殿里施教，在暗地里我并没有说什么。
Jesus answered him, I have spoken openly to the world; I always taught in the synagogue and in the temple, where all the Jews come together, and I spoke
nothing in secret.
18:21 你为什么问我？可以问那听见的人，我对他们说的是什么。看哪，我所说的，他们都知道。
Why do you question Me? Question those who have heard Me, concerning what I spoke to them; behold, these know what I said.
18:22 耶稣说了这些话，旁边站着的一个差役，用手掌打祂，说，你这样回答大祭司么？
And when He said these things, one of the attendants standing by slapped Jesus, saying, Is that how You answer the high priest?
18:23 耶稣回答说，我若说的不对，你可以指证那里不对；若说的对，你为什么打我？
Jesus answered him, If I have spoken wrongly, testify concerning the wrong; but if rightly, why do you strike Me?
18:24 亚那把耶稣仍然捆着，解到大祭司该亚法那里去。
Annas then sent Him bound to Caiaphas the high priest.
18:25 西门彼得正站着烤火，有人对他说，你不也是祂的门徒么？彼得不承认，说，我不是。
Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. Then they said to him, Are you not also one of His disciples? He denied and said, I am not.
18:26 有大祭司的一个奴仆，是彼得削掉耳朵那人的亲属，说，我不是看见你同祂在园子里么？
One of the slaves of the high priest, who was a relative of him whose ear Peter had cut off, said, Did I not see you in the garden with Him?
18:27 彼得又不承认，立刻鸡就叫了。
Then Peter denied again, and immediately a rooster crowed.
18:28 众人将耶稣从该亚法那里解往总督府去，那时是清早。他们自己却不进总督府去，恐怕染了污秽，不能吃逾越节的筵席。
Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas into the praetorium, and it was early morning. And they themselves did not enter into the praetorium, so that they would not
be defiled, but might eat the passover.
18:29 彼拉多就出来，到他们那里，说，你们拿什么控告这人？
Pilate therefore went outside to them and said, What accusation do you bring against this man?
18:30 他们回答说，这人若不是作恶的，我们就不会把祂交给你。
They answered and said to him, If this man were not doing evil, we would not have delivered Him to you.
18:31 彼拉多对他们说，你们自己把祂带去，按着你们的律法审判祂吧。犹太人说，我们杀人是不可的。
Pilate said then to them, You take Him and judge Him according to your law. The Jews said to him, It is not lawful for us to kill anyone,
18:32 这是要应验耶稣所说，那指明祂将要怎样死的话。
That the word of Jesus might be fulfilled which He spoke, signifying by what kind of death He was to die.
18:33 彼拉多又进了总督府，叫耶稣来，对祂说，你是犹太人的王么？
Pilate therefore entered again into the praetorium and called for Jesus. And he said to Him, You are the King of the Jews?
18:34 耶稣回答说，这话是你由于自己说的，还是别人对你论到我说的？
Jesus answered, Are you saying this of yourself, or did others tell you about Me?
18:35 彼拉多说，我岂是犹太人？你本国的人和祭司长把你交给我，你究竟作了什么事？
Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Your nation and its chief priests have delivered You to me. What have You done?
18:36 耶稣回答说，我的国不属这世界；我的国若属这世界，我的臣仆必要争战，使我不至于被交给犹太人；只是我的国不是来自这里的。
Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If My kingdom were of this world, My attendants would be struggling so that I would not be delivered to the
Jews; but as it is, My kingdom is not from here.
18:37 彼拉多就对祂说，这样，你不是王么？耶稣回答说，你说我是王，我为此而生，也为此来到世间，为要给真理作见证；凡属真理的人，就听我的声
音。
Pilate said therefore to Him, So then You are a king? Jesus answered, You say that I am a king. For this I have been born, and for this I have come into the world,
that I would testify to the truth. Every one who is of the truth hears My voice.
18:38 彼拉多对祂说，真理是什么？说了这话，又出来到犹太人那里，对他们说，我查不出祂有什么该定罪的。
Pilate said to Him, What is truth? And having said this, he again went out to the Jews and said to them, I find no fault in Him.
18:39 但你们有个规矩，在逾越节要我给你们释放一个人。你们要我给你们释放犹太人的王么？
But you have a custom that I release one man to you at the Passover. Is it your will therefore that I release to you the King of the Jews?
18:40 他们又喊着说，不要这人，要巴拉巴。这巴拉巴是个强盗。
Then they cried out again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber.
约翰福音 John 第 19 章
19:1 当下，彼拉多将耶稣带去鞭打了。
Therefore at that time Pilate took Jesus and scourged Him.
19:2 兵丁用荆棘编作冠冕，戴在祂头上，给祂穿上紫袍，
And the soldiers wove a crown of thorns and put it on His head, and they threw a purple garment around Him.
19:3 又来到祂跟前，说，犹太人的王！愿你喜乐！他们就用手掌打祂。
And they came to Him and said, Rejoice, King of the Jews! and slapped Him.
19:4 彼拉多又出来对众人说，看哪，我把祂带出来给你们，叫你们知道我查不出祂有什么该定罪的。
And Pilate went outside again and said to them, Behold, I am bringing Him out to you that you may know that I find no fault in Him.
19:5 耶稣出来，戴着荆棘冠冕，穿着紫袍。彼拉多对他们说，看哪，这个人。
Then Jesus came out, wearing the thorny crown and the purple garment. And he said to them, Behold, the man!
19:6 祭司长和差役看见祂，就喊着说，钉祂十字架！钉祂十字架！彼拉多说，你们自己把祂带去钉十字架吧，因为我查不出祂有什么该定罪的。
When therefore the chief priests and the attendants saw Him, they cried out, saying, Crucify! Crucify! Pilate said to them, You take Him and crucify Him, for I do
not find fault in Him.
19:7 犹太人回答说，我们有律法，按那律法祂是该死的，因祂自命为神的儿子。
The Jews answered him, We have a law, and according to that law He ought to die because He made Himself the Son of God.
19:8 彼拉多听见这话，就越发害怕，
When Pilate therefore heard this word, he became frightened the more,
19:9 又进总督府，对耶稣说，你是那里来的？耶稣却不回答。
And he entered into the praetorium again and said to Jesus, Where are You from? But Jesus gave him no answer.
19:10 彼拉多对祂说，你不对我说话么？你岂不知我有权柄释放你，也有权柄把你钉十字架么？
Therefore Pilate said to Him, You do not speak to me? Do You not know that I have authority to release You and I have authority to crucify You?
19:11 耶稣回答说，若不是从上头赐给你的，你就毫无权柄办我；所以把我交给你的那人，罪更重了。
Jesus answered him, You would have no authority against Me if it were not given to you from above; for this reason, he who has delivered Me to you has the
greater sin.
19:12 从此彼拉多想要释放耶稣，无奈犹太人喊着说，你若释放这个人，就不是该撒的朋友；凡自命为王的，就是反对该撒了。
From then on, Pilate sought to release Him, but the Jews cried out, saying, If you release this man, you are not a friend of Caesar; every one who makes himself a
king opposes Caesar.
19:13 彼拉多听见这些话，就带耶稣出来，到了一个地方，名叫铺华石处，希伯来话叫厄巴大，就在那里坐在审判台上。
Pilate therefore, when he heard these words, brought Jesus outside and sat down on the judgment seat in a place called the Pavement, but in Hebrew,
Gabbatha.
19:14 那日是逾越节的预备日，约在早晨六时。彼拉多对犹太人说，看哪，你们的王！
Now it was the day of preparation for the Passover; it was about the sixth hour. And he said to the Jews, Behold, your King!
19:15 他们喊着说，除掉祂，除掉祂，钉祂十字架！彼拉多对他们说，我可以把你们的王钉十字架么？祭司长回答说，除了该撒，我们没有王。
They cried out then, Take Him away! Take Him away! Crucify Him! Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your King? The chief priests answered, We have no king
except Caesar.
19:16 于是彼拉多将耶稣交给他们钉十字架。
Therefore at that time he delivered Him to them that He might be crucified. Therefore they took Jesus.
19:17 他们就把耶稣带了去。耶稣自己背着十字架出来，到了一个地方，名叫髑髅地，希伯来话叫各各他。
And bearing the cross for Himself, He went out to the place called the Place of a Skull, which is called in Hebrew, Golgotha,
19:18 他们就在那里钉祂十字架，另有两个人和祂同钉，一边一个，耶稣在中间。
Where they crucified Him, and with Him two others, on this side and that, and Jesus in the middle.
19:19 彼拉多又写了一个标示，安在十字架上，写的是：犹太人的王拿撒勒人耶稣。
And Pilate wrote a notice also and put it on the cross; and it was written, Jesus The Nazarene, The King Of The JEWS.
19:20 有许多犹太人念这标示，因为耶稣被钉十字架的地方与城相近，并且这标示是用希伯来文、罗马文、希利尼文写的。
This notice therefore many of the Jews read, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Hebrew, in Latin, and in Greek.
19:21 犹太人的祭司长就对彼拉多说，不要写犹太人的王；要写这个人自己说，我是犹太人的王。
The chief priests of the Jews therefore said to Pilate, Do not write, The King of the Jews, but that He said, I am the King of the JEWS.
19:22 彼拉多回答说，我所写的，我已经写上了。
Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written.
19:23 兵丁既将耶稣钉在十字架上，就拿祂的外衣分为四分，每兵一分，又拿祂的里衣，这里衣原没有缝，是上下一片织成的。
The soldiers then, when they had crucified Jesus, took His garments and made four parts, a part for each soldier, and they took the tunic as well. But the tunic
was seamless, woven from the top throughout.
19:24 他们就彼此说，我们不要撕开，只要拈阄，看谁得着。这是要应验经书：“他们分了我的外衣，又为我的衣服拈阄。”兵丁果然作了这事。
They said therefore to one another, Let us not tear it, but let us cast lots for it to see whose it shall be, that the Scripture might be fulfilled which says, "They divided
My garments among themselves, and for My clothing they cast lots.'' So then the soldiers did these things.
19:25 站在耶稣十字架旁边的，有祂母亲，与祂母亲的姊妹，并革罗罢的妻子马利亚，和抹大拉的马利亚。
And there were standing by the cross of Jesus His mother and His mother's sister and Mary the wife of Clopas and Mary the Magdalene.
19:26 耶稣看见祂母亲和祂所爱的那门徒站在旁边，就对祂母亲说，妇人，看哪，你的儿子。
Then Jesus, seeing His mother and the disciple whom He loved standing by, said to His mother, Woman, behold, your son.
19:27 又对那门徒说，看哪，你的母亲。从那时候，那门徒就接她到自己家里去了。
Then He said to the disciple, Behold, your mother. And from that hour the disciple took her into his own home.
19:28 这事以后，耶稣知道各样的事已经成就，为要成就经书，就说，我渴了。
After this, Jesus, knowing that all things had now been finished and so that the Scripture might be fulfilled, said, I thirst.
19:29 有一个器皿盛满了醋，放在那里；他们就拿海绵蘸满了醋，绑在牛膝草上，送到祂口边。
There was lying there a vessel full of vinegar; therefore, they put a sponge full of vinegar on hyssop and brought it to His mouth.
19:30 耶稣受了那醋，就说，成了！便低下头，将灵交付了。
Then when Jesus had taken the vinegar, He said, It is finished! And He bowed His head and delivered up His spirit.
19:31 犹太人因这日是预备日，又因那安息日是个大日，就求彼拉多叫人打断他们的腿，把他们拿去，免得身体当安息日留在十字架上。
Then the Jews, since it was the day of preparation and so that the bodies might not remain on the cross on the Sabbath (for that Sabbath day was a great
Sabbath), requested of Pilate that their legs might be broken and that they might be taken away.
19:32 于是兵丁来，把头一个人的腿，并与耶稣同钉另一个人的腿，都打断了；
The soldiers therefore came and broke the legs of the first man and of the other man who had been crucified with Him.
19:33 只是来到耶稣那里，见祂已经死了，就不打断祂的腿。
But coming to Jesus, when they saw that He had already died, they did not break His legs;
19:34 惟有一个兵用枪扎祂的肋旁，随即有血和水流出来。
But one of the soldiers pierced His side with a spear, and immediately there came out blood and water.
19:35 那看见的人就作见证，他的见证也是真实的，并且他知道自己所说的是真实的，叫你们也可以信。
And he who has seen this has testified, and his testimony is true; and he knows that he says what is true, that you also may believe.
19:36 这些事发生，为要应验经书：“祂的骨头，一根也不可折断。”
For these things happened that the Scripture might be fulfilled: "No bone of His shall be broken.''
19:37 另有一处经书说，“他们要仰望自己所扎的人。”
And again another Scripture says, "They shall look on Him whom they pierced.''
19:38 这些事以后，有亚利马太人约瑟，是耶稣的门徒，只因怕犹太人，就暗暗的作门徒，他求彼拉多，要领耶稣的身体，彼拉多准许了，他就来把耶稣
的身体领去。
And after these things Joseph from Arimathea, being a disciple of Jesus, but a hidden one for fear of the Jews, requested of Pilate that he might take the body of
Jesus away; and Pilate allowed it. He came therefore and took His body away.
19:39 又有先前夜间到耶稣那里的尼哥底母也来了，带着没药与沉香调和的香料，约有一百磅。
And Nicodemus, he who had come to Him the first time by night, came also, bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes of about a hundred pounds.
19:40 他们就领了耶稣的身体，照犹太人殡葬的规矩，用细麻布加上香料裹好。
Therefore they took the body of Jesus and bound it in linen cloths with the spices, as is the custom of the Jews for burying.
19:41 在耶稣钉十字架的地方，有一个园子，园里有一座新坟墓，是从来没有葬过人的。
Now in the place where He was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb, in which no one had ever yet been laid.
19:42 只因是犹太人的预备日，又因那坟墓近，他们就把耶稣安放在那里。
Therefore because of the day of preparation for the Jews and because the tomb was near, they laid Jesus there.
约翰福音 John 第 20 章
20:1 七日的第一日清早，天还黑的时候，抹大拉的马利亚来到坟墓那里，看见石头从坟墓挪开了。
Now on the first day of the week, Mary the Magdalene came early to the tomb while it was yet dark and saw the stone taken away from the tomb.
20:2 她就跑到西门彼得，和耶稣所爱的那另一个门徒那里，对他们说，有人把主从坟墓里取了去，我们不知道他们把祂放在那里。
She ran therefore and came to Simon Peter and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved and said to them, They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we
do not know where they have laid Him.
20:3 彼得和那另一个门徒就出来，往坟墓那里去。
Peter therefore went forth, as well as the other disciple, and came to the tomb.
20:4 两个人同跑，那另一个门徒跑在前头，比彼得更快，先到了坟墓；
And the two ran together, yet the other disciple ran ahead faster than Peter and came first to the tomb.
20:5 低头往里看，见细麻布还放着，只是没有进去。
And stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloths lying there; however, he did not enter.
20:6 西门彼得随后也到了，进坟墓里去，就看见细麻布还放着，
Then Simon Peter also came, following him, and entered into the tomb; and he beheld the linen cloths lying there
20:7 又看见耶稣的裹头巾，没有和细麻布放在一起，是另在一处卷着。
And the handkerchief which had been over His head, not lying with the linen cloths, but folded up in one place apart.
20:8 那时，先到坟墓的那另一个门徒也进去，看见就信了。
At that time therefore the other disciple also, who came first to the tomb, entered, and he saw and believed;
20:9 因为他们还不明白经书所说的，就是耶稣必须从死人中复活。
For as yet they did not understand the Scripture, that He had to rise from among the dead.
20:10 于是两个门徒又回自己的住处去了。
The disciples therefore went away again to their own home.
20:11 马利亚却站在坟墓外面哭，哭的时候，低头往坟墓里看，
But Mary stood outside at the tomb weeping. Then as she wept, she stooped to look into the tomb
20:12 就见两个天使，身穿白衣，在安放耶稣身体的地方坐着，一个在头，一个在脚。
And beheld two angels in white sitting, one at the head and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain.
20:13 天使对她说，妇人，你为什么哭？她对他们说，有人把我的主取了去，我不知道他们把祂放在那里。
And they said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? She said to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid Him.
20:14 她说了这话，就转过身来，看见耶稣站着，却不知道是耶稣。
When she said these things, she turned backward and beheld Jesus standing there, yet she did not know that it was Jesus.
20:15 耶稣对她说，妇人，为什么哭？你找谁？马利亚以为是看园的，就对祂说，先生，若是你把祂移走了，请告诉我，你把祂放在那里，我好去取祂。
Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? She, supposing that He was the gardener, said to Him, Sir, if You have carried Him
away, tell me where You have laid Him, and I will take Him away.
20:16 耶稣对她说，马利亚。马利亚就转过身来，用希伯来话对祂说，拉波尼（意思就是夫子）。
Jesus said to her, Mary! She turned and said to Him in Hebrew, Rabboni! (which means Teacher).
20:17 耶稣对她说，不要摸我，因我还没有升到父那里；你往我弟兄那里去，告诉他们说，我要升到我的父，也是你们的父那里，到我的神，也是你们的
神那里。
Jesus said to her, Do not touch Me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father; but go to My brothers and say to them, I ascend to My Father and your Father, and
My God and your God.
20:18 抹大拉的马利亚就去告诉门徒说，我已经看见主了；并且告诉他们主也对她说了这些话。
Mary the Magdalene came, announcing to the disciples, I have seen the Lord, and that He had said these things to her.
20:19 那日（就是七日的第一日）晚上，门徒所在的地方，因怕犹太人，门都关了；耶稣来站在当中，对他们说，愿你们平安。
When therefore it was evening on that day, the first day of the week, and while the doors were shut where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus came
and stood in the midst and said to them, Peace be to you.
20:20 说了这话，就把手和肋旁指给他们看。门徒看见主，就喜乐了。
And when He had said this, He showed them His hands and His side. The disciples therefore rejoiced at seeing the Lord.
20:21 耶稣又对他们说，愿你们平安，父怎样差遣了我，我也照样差遣你们。
Then Jesus said to them again, Peace be to you; as the Father has sent Me, I also send you.
20:22 说了这话，就向他们吹入一口气，说，你们受圣灵。
And when He had said this, He breathed into them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit.
20:23 你们赦免谁的罪，谁的罪就赦免了；你们留下谁的罪，谁的罪就留下了。
Whosever sins you forgive, they are forgiven them; and whosever sins you retain, they are retained.
20:24 那十二个门徒中，有一个称为低土马的多马，耶稣来的时候，他没有和他们在一起。
But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came.
20:25 其他的门徒就对他说，我们已经看见主了。多马却对他们说，除非我看见祂手上的钉痕，用指头探入那钉痕，又用手探入祂的肋旁，我总不信。
The other disciples therefore said to him, We have seen the Lord! But he said to them, Unless I see in His hands the mark of the nails and put my finger into the
mark of the nails and put my hand into His side, I will by no means believe.
20:26 过了八日，耶稣的门徒又在屋里，多马也和他们在一起。门虽都是关的，耶稣却来站在当中，说，愿你们平安。
And after eight days, His disciples were again within, and Thomas was with them. Jesus came, though the doors were shut, and stood in the midst and said,
Peace be to you.
20:27 就对多马说，伸过你的指头来，摸我的手；伸出你的手来，探入我的肋旁。不要不信，总要信。
Then He said to Thomas, Bring your finger here and see My hands, and bring your hand and put it into My side; and do not be unbelieving, but believing.
20:28 多马回答祂说，我的主，我的神。
Thomas answered and said to Him, My Lord and my God!
20:29 耶稣对他说，你因看见了我才信，那没有看见就信的有福了。
Jesus said to him, Because you have seen Me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and have believed.
20:30 耶稣在门徒面前，另外行了许多神迹，没有记在这书上。
Moreover indeed many other signs also Jesus did before His disciples, which are not written in this book.
20:31 但记这些事，要叫你们信耶稣是基督，是神的儿子；并且叫你们信了，就可以在祂的名里得生命。
But these have been written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing, you may have life in His name.
约翰福音 John 第 21 章
21:1 这些事以后，耶稣在提比哩亚海边，又向门徒显现如下：
After these things Jesus manifested Himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias. And He manifested Himself in this way:
21:2 有西门彼得，和称为低土马的多马，并加利利的迦拿人拿但业，还有西庇太的两个儿子，又另有两个门徒，都在一处。
Simon Peter and Thomas, called Didymus, and Nathanael from Cana of Galilee and the sons of Zebedee and two others of His disciples were there together.
21:3 西门彼得对他们说，我打鱼去。他们说，我们也和你同去。他们就出去，上了船，那一夜并没有打着什么。
Simon Peter said to them, I am going fishing. They said to him, We also are coming with you. They went forth and got into the boat, and that night they caught
nothing.
21:4 天将亮的时候，耶稣站在岸上，门徒却不知道是耶稣。
Now as soon as the morning broke, Jesus stood on the shore; however the disciples did not know that it was Jesus.
21:5 耶稣就对他们说，孩子们，你们有鱼吃么？他们回答祂说，没有。
Then Jesus said to them, Little children, you do not have any fish to eat, do you? They answered Him, No.
21:6 耶稣对他们说，把网撒在船的右边，就必得着。他们便撒下网去，竟拉不上来，因为鱼甚多。
And He said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some. They cast therefore, and they were no longer able to haul it in because of
the abundance of fish.
21:7 耶稣所爱的那门徒就对彼得说，是主！那时西门彼得赤着身子，一听见是主，就束上外衣，跳进海里。
Then that disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, It is the Lord! Therefore when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put his outer garment around himself,
for he was naked; and he threw himself into the sea.
21:8 其余的门徒离岸不远，约有二百肘，就在小船上把那网鱼拉过来。
But the other disciples came in the little boat, for they were not far from the land, but about two hundred cubits away, dragging the net of fish.
21:9 他们上了岸，就看见那里放着炭火，上面放着鱼和饼。
Then when they got out onto the land, they saw a fire of coals laid there, and fish lying on it and bread.
21:10 耶稣对他们说，把刚才打的鱼，拿几条来。
Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish that you have just now caught.
21:11 西门彼得就去，把网拉到岸上，那网满了大鱼，共一百五十三条；鱼虽这样多，网却没有破。
Simon Peter therefore went up and hauled the net to the land full of large fish, a hundred and fifty-three; and though there were so many, the net was not torn.
21:12 耶稣对他们说，来吃早饭。门徒中没有一个敢问祂，你是谁？因为知道是主。
Jesus said to them, Come and have breakfast. But none of the disciples dared to inquire of Him, Who are you? knowing that it was the Lord.
21:13 耶稣就来拿饼给他们，也照样拿鱼给他们。
Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and the fish likewise.
21:14 耶稣从死人中复活以后，向门徒显现，这是第三次。
This was now the third time that Jesus was manifested to the disciples after He had been raised from the dead.
21:15 他们吃完了早饭，耶稣对西门彼得说，约翰的儿子西门，你爱我比这些更深么？彼得对祂说，主阿，是的，你知道我爱你。耶稣对他说，你喂养我
的小羊。
Then when they had eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love Me more than these? He said to Him, Yes, Lord, You know that I
love You. He said to him, Feed My lambs.
21:16 耶稣第二次又对他说，约翰的儿子西门，你爱我么？彼得对祂说，主阿，是的，你知道我爱你。耶稣对他说，你牧养我的羊。
He said to him again a second time, Simon, son of John, do you love Me? He said to Him, Yes, Lord, You know that I love You. He said to him, Shepherd My
sheep.
21:17 耶稣第三次对他说，约翰的儿子西门，你爱我么？彼得因为耶稣第三次对他说，你爱我么？就忧愁，对耶稣说，主阿，你是无所不知的，你知道我
爱你。耶稣对他说，你喂养我的羊。
He said to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love Me? Peter was grieved that He said to him the third time, Do you love Me? And he said to Him, Lord,
You know all things; You know that I love You. Jesus said to him, Feed My sheep.
21:18 我实实在在的告诉你，你年轻的时候，自己束上带子，随意往来；但年老的时候，你要伸出手来，别人要把你束上，带你到不愿意去的地方。
Truly, truly, I say to you, When you were younger, you girded yourself and walked where you wished; but when you grow old, you will stretch out your hands, and
another will gird you and carry you where you do not wish to go.
21:19 耶稣说这话，是指明彼得要怎样死荣耀神。说了这话，就对他说，你跟从我吧。
Now this He said, signifying by what kind of death he would glorify God. And when He had said this, He said to him, Follow Me.
21:20 彼得转过身来，看见耶稣所爱的那门徒跟着，就是在晚饭的时候，靠着耶稣胸膛，说，主阿，出卖你的是谁的那门徒。
Peter, turning around, saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following, who also reclined on His breast at the supper, and said, Lord, who is the one betraying You?
21:21 彼得看见他，就对耶稣说，主阿，这人怎么样？
Peter therefore, seeing him, said to Jesus, Lord, and what about this man?
21:22 耶稣对他说，我若要留他直到我来的时候，与你何干？你跟从我吧。
Jesus said to him, If I want him to remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow Me.
21:23 于是这话传在弟兄中间，说那门徒不死。其实耶稣不是说他不死，乃是说，我若要留他直到我来的时候，与你何干。
This word therefore went out among the brothers, that that disciple would not die, yet Jesus did not say to him that he would not die, but, If I want him to remain
until I come, what is that to you?
21:24 为这些事作见证，并且记载这些事的，就是这门徒；我们也知道他的见证是真实的。
This is the disciple who testifies concerning these things, and the one who has written these things; and we know that his testimony is true.
21:25 耶稣所行的，还有许多别的事，若是一一都写出来，我想所写的书，就是世界也容不下了。
And there are also many other things which Jesus did, which, if they were written one by one, I suppose that not even the world itself could contain the books
written.