25. 耶利米哀歌 Lamentations
耶利米哀歌 Lamentations 第 1 章
1:1 先前满有人民的城，现在何竟独坐！先前在列国中为大的，现在竟如寡妇；先前在诸省中为王后的，现在成了进贡的。
How the city sits alone That was full of people! She who was once great among the nations Has become like a widow; She who was a princess among the
provinces Has become tributary.
1:2 她夜间痛哭，泪流满腮。在她一切所爱的人中间，没有一个安慰她的；她的朋友，都以诡诈待她，成了她的仇敌。
Bitterly she weeps in the night, And her tears are on her cheeks. There is no one to comfort her Among all her lovers; All her friends have dealt treacherously with
her; They have become her enemies.
1:3 犹大遭遇苦难，多服劳役，被迁到外邦；她住在列国中，寻不着安息；在急难中，一切追逼她的人将她追上了。
Judah has gone into exile, away from affliction And away from great servitude; She dwells among the nations But finds no rest; All her pursuers have overtaken
her In the midst of distress.
1:4 锡安的路径，因无人来守所定的节期就悲伤；她的城门凄凉，她的祭司叹息；她的处女受艰难，自己也在愁苦中。
The ways of Zion mourn, For no one comes to the appointed feast; All her gates are desolate; Her priests groan; Her virgins are afflicted, And she is in bitterness.
1:5 她的敌人为首；她的仇敌亨通；因为她的过犯众多，耶和华使她受苦；她的孩童在敌人面前被掳去。
Her adversaries have become the head; Her enemies prosper; For Jehovah has afflicted her Because of the multitude of her transgressions; Her little ones have
gone into captivity Before the adversary.
1:6 锡安女子的威荣，全都离去；她的首领，像找不着草场的鹿，在追赶的人面前，无力行走。
And all her majesty has departed From the daughter of Zion; Her princes have become like deer That find no pasture, And they have fled without strength Before
the pursuer.
1:7 耶路撒冷在困苦流离之时，就追想古时一切的美事；她百姓落在敌人手中，无人救助；敌人看见她，就嗤笑她的衰败。
In the days of her affliction and her wanderings, Jerusalem remembers All her precious things Which were in the days of old, When her people fell into the hand
of the adversary, And there was no one to help her. The adversaries saw her; They mocked at her downfall.
1:8 耶路撒冷大大的犯罪，所以成了不洁之物。素来尊敬她的，见她赤露就都藐视她；她自己也叹息，转身退后。
Jerusalem has sinned grievously; Therefore she has become an impurity. All who honored her despise her, Because they have seen her nakedness; And she
groans And turns backwards.
1:9 她的污秽是在衣裙上；她不思想自己末后的结局；所以她令人惊奇的败落，无人安慰她。她说，耶和华阿，求你看我的苦难，因为仇敌自夸为大。
Her uncleanness is in her skirts; She did not remember her latter end; Therefore she has come down astonishingly; There is no one to comfort her. O Jehovah,
see my affliction, For the enemy has magnified himself.
1:10 敌人伸手，夺取她的一切美物；她眼见外邦人进入她的圣所；论到这外邦人，你曾吩咐不可入你的会中。
The adversary has spread out his hand Over all her precious things, For she has seen the nations Enter her sanctuary, Concerning whom You commanded that
they should not enter Into Your assembly.
1:11 她的民都叹息，寻求食物；他们用美物换粮食，要救回性命。他们说，耶和华阿，求你观看，因为我成了被藐视的。
All her people groan; They seek bread; They have given their precious things for food To restore their soul. See, O Jehovah, and look, For I have become despised.
1:12 你们一切过路的人哪，这事你们不介意么？你们要观看，有什么痛苦像我所遭受的痛苦，就是耶和华在祂发烈怒的日子，使我所受的苦。
Is it nothing to you, all who pass by the way? Look and see If there is any pain like my pain Which is dealt to me, Whom Jehovah has afflicted In the day of His
burning anger.
1:13 祂从高天使火进入我的骨头，胜过了我；祂铺下网罗，绊我的脚，使我转回退后；祂使我终日凄凉发昏。
He has sent fire from on high Into my bones, and it prevails against them; He has spread out a net for my feet; He has turned me back; He has made me a
desolation And faint all the day.
1:14 我过犯的轭，是祂手所绑的，都纠缠在一起，上到我的颈项；祂使我的力量衰败。主将我交在我所不能敌挡的人手中。
The yoke of my transgressions is bound by His hand; They are knit together; They have come up upon my neck; He has made my strength fail; The Lord has
delivered me into hands From which I am not able to rise up.
1:15 主轻弃我中间的一切勇士；祂招聚会众攻击我，要压碎我的少年人。主将犹大的处女踹踏，像在酒醡中一样。
The Lord has made light of all my mighty men In my midst; He has called an assembly against me To crush my young men. The Lord has trodden, as in a
winepress, The virgin daughter of Judah.
1:16 我因这些事哭泣；我的眼睛泪水直流，因为那当安慰我，救回我性命的，离我甚远；我的儿女凄苦，因为仇敌已经得胜。
For these things I weep; My eye, my eye runs down with water, For the comforter who should revive my soul Is far from me; My children have become desolate,
Because the enemy has prevailed.
1:17 锡安伸出双手，无人安慰；论到雅各，耶和华已经出令，使四围的人作他仇敌；耶路撒冷在他们中间，成了不洁之物。
Zion stretches out her hands, Yet there is no one to comfort her. Jehovah has commanded concerning Jacob That those around him should be his adversaries;
Jerusalem has become an impurity Among them.
1:18 耶和华是公义的，因我违背了祂的命令。众民哪，请听我的话，看我的痛苦；我的处女和少年人，都被掳去了。
Jehovah is righteous, For I have rebelled against His commandment. Hear now, all the peoples, And see my pain; My virgins and my young men Have gone into
captivity.
1:19 我招呼我所爱的人，他们却愚弄我；我的祭司和长老，正寻求食物要救回性命的时候，就在城中灭亡。
I have called to my lovers; They have deceived me; My priests and my elders Have perished in the city, While they sought food for themselves To restore their
souls.
1:20 耶和华阿，求你观看，因为我在急难中，我的心肠翻腾；我的心在我里面翻转，因我曾经大大的悖逆。在街上刀剑使人丧子，在屋里犹如死亡。
See, O Jehovah, for I am in distress, My bowels are in ferment; My heart is overturned within me, For I have been very rebellious. In the street the sword bereaves;
In the house it is like death.
1:21 他们听见我叹息，却无人安慰我；我的仇敌都听见我的患难；因你作了这事，他们就都欢喜。你必使你宣告的日子来到，他们就要像我一样。
They have heard that I groan; There is no one to comfort me; All my enemies have heard of my trouble; They are glad that You have done it. You will bring the
day that You have proclaimed, And they will be like me.
1:22 愿他们的恶，都呈到你面前；你怎样因我的一切过犯待我，求你照样待他们；因我叹息甚多，我的心发昏。
779
Let all their wickedness come before You, And deal with them As You have dealt with me For all my transgressions; For my sighs are many, And my heart is faint.
耶利米哀歌 Lamentations 第 2 章
2:1 主何竟发怒，使乌云遮蔽锡安的女子！祂将以色列的华美，从天扔在地上，在祂发怒的日子，并不记念自己的脚凳。
How the Lord in His anger Has covered the daughter of Zion with a cloud! He has cast from heaven to earth The glory of Israel, And has not remembered His
footstool In the day of His anger.
2:2 主吞灭雅各一切的住处，并不顾惜；祂在盛怒中拆毁了犹大女子的保障，使这保障坍倒在地；祂辱没这国和其首领。
The Lord has swallowed up all the habitations of Jacob; He has not spared; He has torn down in His overflowing wrath The strongholds of the daughter of Judah.
He has brought them down to the ground; He has profaned the kingdom and its princes.
2:3 祂在烈怒中，把以色列的角全然砍断。祂在仇敌面前收回右手。祂像火焰四围吞灭，在雅各中间焚烧。
He has cut off in fierce anger All the horn of Israel. He has withdrawn His right hand From before the enemy. He has burned among Jacob like a flame of fire; It
consumes all around.
2:4 祂张弓，好像仇敌；祂站着举起右手，如同敌人，将悦人眼目的尽行杀戮。在锡安女子的帐棚上，倒出祂的忿怒像火一样。
He has bent His bow like an enemy; He has set His right hand like an adversary And has slain all that was pleasant to the eye. In the tent of the daughter of Zion
He has poured out His wrath like fire.
2:5 主如仇敌吞灭以色列，吞灭她的一切宫殿；主毁坏她的保障，在犹大女子中，加增悲伤哀号。
The Lord has become like an enemy; He has swallowed up Israel; He has swallowed up all her palaces; He has destroyed her strongholds And multiplied in the
daughter of Judah Mourning and lamentation.
2:6 祂强力拆毁自己的帷幕，好像拆毁园子；祂毁坏自己的聚会之处；耶和华使所定的节期和安息日，在锡安都被忘记；祂在怒气的愤恨中，藐视君王和
祭司。
And He has violently taken away His pavilion like a garden; He has destroyed the place of His assembly; Jehovah has caused the appointed feast and the
Sabbath To be forgotten in Zion; He has despised, in the indignation of His anger, The king and the priest.
2:7 主丢弃了祂的祭坛，憎恶祂的圣所，将宫殿的墙垣交在仇敌手中。他们在耶和华的殿中喧嚷，像在所定节期之日一样。
The Lord has cast off His altar; He has abhorred His sanctuary; He has delivered up into the hand of the enemy The walls of her palaces. They have made a noise
in the house of Jehovah As though it were the day of an appointed feast.
2:8 耶和华想要拆毁锡安女子的城墙；祂拉了准绳，不将手收回，定要毁灭；祂使外郭和城墙都悲哀，一同衰败。
Jehovah has thought to destroy The walls of the daughter of Zion; He has stretched out the line And has not withdrawn His hand from destroying; And He has
made the rampart and the wall to mourn; They languish together.
2:9 锡安的门陷入地内；耶和华将她的门闩毁坏、折断；她的君王和首领落在没有律法的列国中；她的申言者也不得见耶和华的异象。
Her gates have sunk into the ground; He has destroyed and broken her bars; Her king and her princes are among nations Where there is no law; Her prophets
also do not find A vision from Jehovah.
2:10 锡安女子的长老坐在地上，默默无声；他们把尘土撒在头上，腰束麻布；耶路撒冷的处女，垂头至地。
The elders of the daughter of Zion Sit on the ground; they are silent. They have cast dust upon their head; They have girded themselves with sackcloth. The virgins
of Jerusalem Hang down their head to the ground.
2:11 我的眼流泪，以致失明；我的心肠翻腾，肝胆涂地，都因我的民遭毁灭，又因孩童和吃奶的在城内街上发昏。
My eyes are consumed with tears; My bowels are in ferment; My liver is poured out on the earth, Because of the brokenness of the daughter of my people,
Because the little ones and the nursing children Faint in the streets of the city.
2:12 那时他们在城内街上发昏，好像受伤的，在母亲的怀里将要丧命，对母亲说，谷和酒在那里呢？
They say to their mothers, Where is the grain and the wine? When they faint like one wounded In the streets of the city, When they pour out their soul Into their
mothers' bosom.
2:13 耶路撒冷的女子阿，我可用什么向你证明呢？我可把你比作什么呢？锡安的处女阿，我可拿什么和你比较，好安慰你呢？因为你的裂口大如海，谁能
医治你呢？
What shall I testify to you? What shall I liken you to, O daughter of Jerusalem? What shall I compare you to, that I may comfort you, O virgin daughter of Zion? For
your breach is great like a sea. Who will heal you?
2:14 你的申言者为你看见虚幻和愚妄的异象，并没有揭露你的罪孽，使你被掳的归回；却为你看见虚假的默示，和使你被赶逐的缘故。
Your prophets have seen for you Vanity and folly, And they have not uncovered your iniquity To turn again your captivity; But they have seen for you burdens Of
vanity and of causes of banishment.
2:15 凡过路的，都向你拍掌；他们向耶路撒冷的女子嗤笑摇头，说，难道这城就是人所称为全美的，称为全地所喜悦的么？
All those who pass on the way Clap their hands at you; They hiss and wag their head At the daughter of Jerusalem, saying, Is this the city which they called, The
perfection of beauty, The joy of the whole earth?
2:16 你的仇敌都张口攻击你；他们嗤笑切齿，说，我们把她吞灭了。这真是我们所盼望的日子；我们得着了，我们看见了。
All your enemies Have opened their mouth against you; They hiss and gnash the teeth; They say, We have swallowed her up. This is certainly the day that we
have looked for; We have found it; we have seen it.
2:17 耶和华成就了祂所定意的，应验了祂从古时所吩咐的话；祂倾覆了，并不顾惜，使你的仇敌因胜过你而喜乐；祂使你敌人的角被高举。
Jehovah has done what He purposed; He has fulfilled His word, Which He commanded from the days of old; He has torn down and has not spared, And He has
caused the enemy to rejoice over you; He has exalted the horn of your adversaries.
2:18 锡安民的心哀求主：锡安女子的城墙阿，愿你昼夜流泪如河，不得歇息；愿你眼中的瞳人，泪流不止。
Their heart cried out to the Lord: O wall of the daughter of Zion, Let tears run down like a stream Day and night; Give yourself no respite; Let not the pupil of your
eye cease.
2:19 夜间每逢交更的时候，你要起来呼喊，在主面前倾心如水；你的孩童在各街头挨饿发昏，你要为他们的性命向主举手祷告。
Arise, cry out in the night At the beginning of the watches; Pour out your heart like water Before the face of the Lord; Lift up your hands toward Him For the life of
your little ones, Who faint because of famine At the head of every street.
2:20 耶和华阿，求你观看，见你向谁这样行？妇人岂可吃自己所生育，就是自己所抚弄的婴孩么？祭司和申言者，岂可在主的圣所中被杀戮么？
780
See, O Jehovah, and look, With whom You have dealt thus? Shall the women eat their fruit, The little ones nursed by them? Shall the priest and the prophet be
slain In the sanctuary of the Lord?
2:21 少年人和老年人，都在街上躺卧；我的处女和壮丁，都倒在刀下；你在发怒的日子，杀死他们；你杀戮了，并不顾惜。
The youth and the old man Lie on the ground in the streets; My virgins and my young men Have fallen by the sword; You have slain them in the day of Your anger;
You have slaughtered; You have not spared.
2:22 你呼召四围惊吓我的人，像在所定节期的日子呼召人一样；耶和华发怒的日子，无人逃脱，无人存留；我所抚弄所养育的，仇敌都杀净了。
You have called for, as though in the day of an appointed feast, My terrors on every side, And in the day of Jehovah's anger There was none who escaped or
remained; Those whom I have nursed and brought up My enemy has consumed.
耶利米哀歌 Lamentations 第 3 章
3:1 我是因耶和华忿怒的杖，遇见困苦的人。
I am the man who has seen affliction By the rod of His wrath.
3:2 祂驱赶我，使我行在黑暗中，不行在光明里。
He has driven me and brought me Into darkness and not light.
3:3 祂真是终日再三反手攻击我。
Surely against me He has turned His hand Again and again all the day.
3:4 祂使我的皮肉消损；祂折断了我的骨头。
He has wasted my flesh and my skin; He has broken my bones.
3:5 祂筑垒攻击我，用苦胆和艰难围困我。
He has built up a siege against me And encircled me with gall and travail.
3:6 祂使我住在幽暗之处，像死了许久的人一样。
He has made me dwell in dark places, Like those who have long been dead.
3:7 祂筑墙围住我，使我不能出去；祂使我的铜炼沉重。
He has walled me about so that I cannot go forth; He has made my bronze chain heavy.
3:8 我哀号求救时，祂塞闭不听我的祷告。
Indeed, when I cry out and call for help, He shuts out my prayer.
3:9 祂用凿过的石头，筑墙挡住我的道路；祂使我的路径弯曲。
He has walled in my ways with hewn stone; He has made my paths crooked.
3:10 祂向我如熊埋伏，如狮子在隐密处。
He is to me like a bear lying in wait, Like a lion in hidden places.
3:11 祂使我转离正路，将我撕碎，使我凄凉。
He has turned aside my ways and torn me to pieces; He has made me desolate.
3:12 祂张弓将我当作箭靶。
He bent His bow And set me as a target for the arrow.
3:13 祂把箭袋中的箭，射入我的肺腑。
He has caused the arrows of His quiver To enter my inward parts.
3:14 我成了众民的笑话，成了他们终日嘲笑的歌曲。
I have become a derision to all my people, Their mocking song all the day.
3:15 祂使苦楚充满我，使我喝足茵蔯。
He has filled me with bitterness; He has made me drunk with wormwood.
3:16 祂又用沙石碜断我的牙，用灰尘将我蒙盖。
He has also crushed my teeth with gravel; He has covered me with ashes.
3:17 你使我的魂远离平安；我忘记了好处。
And You have removed my soul far from peace; I have forgotten prosperity.
3:18 我就说，我的力量衰败，我在耶和华那里，毫无指望。
And I said, My strength has perished As well as my hope in Jehovah.
3:19 耶和华阿，求你记念我如茵蔯和苦胆的困苦流离。
Remember my affliction and my wandering, The wormwood and the gall.
3:20 我的魂反覆想念这些，就在里面消沉。
My soul remembers them well And is bowed down within me.
3:21 我的心回想这事，我就有指望。
This I recall to my heart; Therefore I have hope.
3:22 我们不至消灭，是出于耶和华的慈爱，因祂的怜恤不至断绝；
It is Jehovah's lovingkindness that we are not consumed, For His compassions do not fail;
3:23 每早晨这些都是新的；你的信实，极其广大。
They are new every morning; Great is Your faithfulness.
3:24 我的魂说，耶和华是我的分；因此，我要仰望祂。
Jehovah is my portion, says my soul; Therefore I hope in Him.
3:25 等候耶和华，心里寻求祂的，耶和华必善待他。
Jehovah is good to those who wait on Him, To the soul that seeks Him.
3:26 人仰望且静默等候耶和华的救恩，这原是好的。
It is good for one to hope, and to do so in silence, For the salvation of Jehovah.
3:27 人在幼年负轭，这原是好的。
It is good for a man to bear The yoke in his youth.
781
3:28 他当独坐静默，因为这是耶和华加在他身上的。
Let him sit alone and be silent, Because He has laid it upon him.
3:29 他当口贴尘埃，或者还有指望。
Let him put his mouth in the dust-Perhaps there is hope.
3:30 他当由人打他的腮颊；他当满受凌辱。
Let him give his cheek to him who strikes him; Let him be filled with reproach.
3:31 因为主必不永远丢弃人。
For the Lord will not Cast off forever.
3:32 主虽使人忧愁，还要照祂诸般的慈爱发怜恤。
But even if He causes grief, He will have compassion According to the multitude of His lovingkindness;
3:33 因为祂并不存心使人受苦，使世人忧愁。
For He does not afflict willingly Or grieve the children of men.
3:34 人将地上一切被囚的，都压在脚下，
The crushing under his foot Of all the prisoners of the earth,
3:35 在至高者面前屈枉人，
The turning aside of the justice due a man Before the face of the Most High,
3:36 在人的讼事上，颠倒是非－主岂不看这些么？
The wronging of a man in his cause-Will not the Lord see all these?
3:37 主未曾命令的，谁能说了就成呢？
Who is he who says, and it comes to pass, What the Lord has not commanded?
3:38 祸福不都出于至高者的口么？
Out of the mouth of the Most High Do there not proceed evil things and something good?
3:39 活人为何抱怨？人为何因自己的罪受罚发怨言？
Why does a living man complain, A man for the punishment of his sins?
3:40 我们当探究察验自己的道路，再归向耶和华。
Let us examine our ways and try them, And let us turn again to Jehovah.
3:41 我们当举起心，向天上的神举手祷告。
Let us lift up our heart with our hands Unto God in the heavens.
3:42 我们犯罪背叛，你并不饶恕。
We have transgressed and rebelled; You have not pardoned.
3:43 你以怒气遮蔽自己，追赶我们。你施行杀戮，并不顾惜。
You have covered Yourself with anger and have pursued us; You have slain; You have not spared.
3:44 你用云遮蔽自己，以致祷告不得透过。
You have covered Yourself with a cloud That prayer might not pass through.
3:45 你使我们在众民中成为污秽和渣滓。
You have made us offscouring and refuse In the midst of the peoples.
3:46 我们的仇敌，都张口攻击我们。
All our enemies have opened Their mouths against us.
3:47 恐惧和陷坑，残害和毁灭，都临及我们。
Fear and the pit are upon us, Devastation and destruction.
3:48 因我民被毁灭，我就眼泪流下如河。
My eye runs down with streams of water For the destruction of the daughter of my people.
3:49 我的眼泪倾流不停，总不止息，
My eye pours forth and does not stop; There is no cessation,
3:50 直等耶和华垂顾，从天观看。
Until Jehovah looks down And sees from the heavens.
3:51 因我本城的民，我的眼使我的魂伤痛。
My eye pains my soul Because of all the daughters of my city.
3:52 无故与我为敌的追捕我，像追捕雀鸟一样。
They have hunted me down like a bird, They who are my enemies without cause.
3:53 他们使我的命在坑中断绝，又抛石头在我身上。
They have brought my life to its end in the pit And have thrown a stone upon me.
3:54 水流过我的头；我说，我被剪除了。
Water streamed over my head; I said, I have been cut off.
3:55 耶和华阿，我从极深的坑里呼求你的名。
I called upon Your name, O Jehovah, From the lowest pit.
3:56 你曾听见我的声音；求你不要掩耳不听我的呼吸，我的呼吁。
You have heard my voice; do not hide Your ear at my breathing, at my cry.
3:57 我呼求你的日子，你临近我，说，不要惧怕。
You drew near in the day that I called upon You; You said, Do not fear.
3:58 主阿，你伸明了我魂里的冤；你救赎了我的命。
Lord, You have pleaded my soul's case; You have redeemed my life.
3:59 耶和华阿，你见了我受的委屈；求你为我伸冤。
You have seen, O Jehovah, my oppression; Judge my cause.
3:60 他们向我报仇，设谋害我，你都看见了。
You have seen all their vengeance, All their plans, against me.
782
3:61 耶和华阿，你听见他们辱骂我的话，知道他们向我所设的一切计谋，
You have heard their reproach, O Jehovah, All their plans against me,
3:62 并那些起来攻击我的人口中所说的话，以及终日所默想害我的计谋。
The lips of those who rise up against me And their meditation against me all the day.
3:63 求你观看：他们坐下、起来；我成了他们嘲笑的歌曲。
Look upon their sitting down and their rising up; I am their mocking song.
3:64 耶和华阿，你要按着他们手所作的，向他们施行报应。
You will render to them a recompense, O Jehovah, According to the work of their hands.
3:65 你要使他们的心刚硬，使你的咒诅临到他们。
You will give them hardness of heart; Your curse be upon them.
3:66 你要在怒中追赶他们，从耶和华的天下除灭他们。
You will pursue them in anger and will destroy them From under the heavens of Jehovah.
耶利米哀歌 Lamentations 第 4 章
4:1 黄金何竟失光！极纯的金何竟变色！圣所的石头倒在各街头上。
How the gold has become dim! How the most pure gold has changed! The stones of the sanctuary lie poured out At the head of every street.
4:2 锡安宝贵的众子，好比精金，现在何竟算为窑匠的手所作的瓦瓶。
The precious sons of Zion, Comparable to fine gold, How they are esteemed as earthen pitchers, The work of the hands of a potter.
4:3 野狗尚且把奶乳哺崽子，我民的女子倒成为残忍，好像旷野的鸵鸟一般。
Even the jackals present the breast; They nurse their young ones; But the daughter of my people has become cruel, Like the ostriches in the wilderness.
4:4 吃奶孩子的舌头，因干渴贴住上膛；孩童求饼，无人擘给他们。
The tongue of the sucking child cleaves To the roof of his mouth for thirst; The little ones ask for bread, But no one breaks it for them.
4:5 素来吃美好食物的，现今在街上变为凄凉；素来在朱红褥子中养大的，现今抱卧粪堆；
Those who fed on delicacies Are desolate in the streets; Those who were brought up in scarlet Embrace dung heaps.
4:6 我民的罪孽，比所多玛的罪还大；所多玛虽然无人加手于她，还是转眼之间被倾覆。
And the iniquity of the daughter of my people is greater Than the sin of Sodom, Which was overthrown as in a moment; And no hands were laid on her.
4:7 锡安的贵胄素来比雪纯净，比奶更白；他们的身体比珊瑚更红，样貌像蓝宝石一样。
Her nobles were purer than snow; They were whiter than milk; They were redder in body than corals; Their figure was like sapphire.
4:8 现在他们的面貌比黑炭更黑，以致在街上无人认识；他们的皮肤紧贴骨头，枯干如同木柴。
Their visage is darker than black coal; They are not recognized in the streets. Their skin has shriveled up on their bones; It has dried up; it has become like wood.
4:9 饿死的不如被刀杀的，因为他们缺乏田间的出产，就受折磨，渐渐消瘦死亡。
Those who were slain by the sword are better Than those slain by famine; For these pine away stricken through, Because of the lack of the produce of the field.
4:10 慈怜的妇人亲手煮自己的儿女；当我民被毁灭的时候，他们的儿女成了自己的食物。
The hands of compassionate women Have boiled their own children; They have become their food In the destruction of the daughter of my people.
4:11 耶和华发尽祂的怒气，倒出祂的烈怒。祂在锡安使火着起，烧毁锡安的根基。
Jehovah has accomplished His wrath; He has poured out His burning anger. And He has kindled a fire in Zion, And it has consumed its foundations.
4:12 地上的君王和世上的居民，都不信敌人和仇敌能进耶路撒冷的城门。
The kings of the earth did not believe, Neither did any of the inhabitants of the world, That the adversary and the enemy would enter Into the gates of Jerusalem.
4:13 这都因她申言者的罪，和祭司的罪孽；他们在城中流了义人的血。
It is because of the sins of her prophets, And the iniquities of her priests, Who have shed the blood of the righteous In her midst.
4:14 他们在街上瞎闯乱走，又被血玷污，以致人不能摸他们的衣服。
They have wandered about blind in the streets; They are polluted with blood; So that men cannot touch Their garments.
4:15 人向他们喊着说，走开！不洁净的！走开，走开，不要碰我！他们逃走飘流的时候，列国中有人说，他们不可仍在这里寄居。
They cried out to them, Depart! Unclean! Depart, depart; do not touch! When they fled away and wandered about, men said among the nations, They will no
longer sojourn there.
4:16 耶和华的怒气将他们分散，不再眷顾他们；人不重看祭司，也不厚待长老。
The anger of Jehovah has scattered them; He will no longer regard them. They did not honor the priests, Nor did they favor the elders.
4:17 我们仍在仰望帮助，以致眼目昏花，还是枉然；我们所盼望的，竟是一个不能救人的国。
Our eyes do yet fail, Looking in vain for our help; In our watching we watched For a nation that could not save.
4:18 他们像打猎的追踪我们的脚步，以致我们不能在自己的街上行走；我们的结局临近，我们的日子满足，因为我们的结局来到了。
They hunted our steps, So that we cannot walk in our streets; Our end drew near; our days were fulfilled; For our end had come.
4:19 追赶我们的比空中的鹰更快；他们在山上追逼我们，在旷野埋伏等候我们。
Our pursuers were swifter Than the eagles of heaven; They hotly pursued us on the mountains; They lay in wait for us in the wilderness.
4:20 耶和华的受膏者好比我们鼻中的气，在他们的坑中被捉住；我们曾论到他说，我们必在他荫下，在列国中存活。
The breath of our nostrils, the anointed of Jehovah, Has been captured in their pits, Of whom we said, Under his shadow We will live among the nations.
4:21 住在乌斯地的以东女子阿，只管欢喜快乐；这杯也必传到你那里；你必喝醉，以致露体。
Rejoice and be glad, O daughter of Edom, Who dwells in the land of Uz. Yet the cup will pass through to you also; You will become drunk and make yourself
naked.
4:22 锡安的女子阿，你为罪孽所受的惩罚已经足够了；耶和华必不使你再被迁徙。以东的女子阿，祂必追讨你的罪孽，揭露你的罪。
The punishment for your iniquity has been accomplished, O daughter of Zion; He will no longer take you into exile. But He will punish your iniquity, O daughter of
Edom; He will uncover your sins.
耶利米哀歌 Lamentations 第 5 章
783
5:1 耶和华阿，求你记念我们所遭遇的事；注视观看我们所受的凌辱。
Remember, O Jehovah, what has come upon us; Look and see our reproach.
5:2 我们的产业，转归异族人；我们的房屋，转归外地人。
Our inheritance has been turned over to strangers, Our houses to foreigners.
5:3 我们成了无父的孤儿；我们的母亲，好像寡妇。
We are orphans without father; Our mothers are like widows.
5:4 我们出钱才得水喝；我们的柴是出了代价买来的。
We have drunk our water for money; Our wood comes to us at a price.
5:5 追赶我们的，到了我们的颈项上；我们疲乏，不得歇息。
On our necks are our pursuers; We are weary; we have no rest.
5:6 我们投降埃及人和亚述人，为要得粮吃饱。
We have given our hand to Egypt And to Assyria, so as to be satisfied with bread.
5:7 我们列祖犯罪，而今不在了，我们却担当他们的罪孽。
Our fathers sinned and they are not, And we ourselves bear their iniquities.
5:8 奴仆辖制我们；无人救我们脱离他们的手。
Slaves rule over us; There is no one to deliver us from their hand.
5:9 因为旷野的刀剑，我们冒性命的危险，才得粮食。
We get our bread at the risk of our lives Because of the sword from the wilderness.
5:10 因饥饿的燥热，我们的皮肤黝黑如炉。
Our skin is black like an oven Because of the burning heat of famine.
5:11 他们在锡安玷污妇人，在犹大的城邑玷污处女。
They have ravished the women in Zion, The virgins in the cities of Judah.
5:12 首领被他们吊起，老人的面也不受尊敬。
Princes were hanged by them. The faces of the elders were not honored.
5:13 少年人扛磨石，孩童背木柴而绊跌。
The young men bore the mill, And the young boys stumbled under the wood.
5:14 老年人在城门口绝迹，少年人不再奏乐。
The old men have ceased from the gate, The young men from their music.
5:15 我们心中的欢乐止息，跳舞转为悲哀。
The joy of our heart has ceased; Our dance has been turned into mourning.
5:16 冠冕从我们的头上落下；我们有祸了，因我们犯了罪。
The crown has fallen from our head. Woe to us! For we have sinned.
5:17 为这事我们的心发昏；为这些事我们的眼昏花。
Because of this our heart is faint; Because of these things our eyes are dim;
5:18 因为锡安山荒凉，狐狸行在其上。
Because of Mount Zion, which is desolate-Foxes rove in it.
5:19 耶和华阿，你存到永远，你的宝座，存到万代。
You, O Jehovah, abide forever; Your throne is from generation to generation.
5:20 你为何永远忘记我们，为何长久离弃我们？
Why do You forget us forever And forsake us for so long a time?
5:21 耶和华阿，求你使我们回转，我们便得回转；求你更新我们的日子，像古时一样。
Turn to us, O Jehovah, and we will be turned; Renew our days as before.
5:22 或是你已经全然弃绝我们，向我们大发烈怒？
Or have You utterly rejected us? Are You exceedingly angry with us?