3. 利未记 Leviticus
利未记 Leviticus 第 1 章
1:1 耶和华从会幕中呼叫摩西，对他说，
Then Jehovah called to Moses and spoke to him out of the Tent of Meeting, saying,
1:2 你要对以色列人说，你们中间若有人献供物给耶和华，要从牛群羊群中献牲畜为供物。
Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, When any one of you presents an offering to Jehovah, you shall present your offering from the cattle, of the herd
or of the flock.
1:3 他的供物若以牛为燔祭，就要献一只没有残疾的公牛；他要在会幕门口把公牛献上，使他可以在耶和华面前蒙悦纳。
If his offering is a burnt offering from the herd, he shall present it, a male without blemish; he shall present it at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting, that he may
be accepted before Jehovah.
1:4 他要按手在燔祭牲的头上，燔祭牲便蒙悦纳，为他遮罪。
And he shall lay his hand on the head of the burnt offering, and it shall be accepted for him, to make expiation for him.
1:5 他要在耶和华面前宰公牛；亚伦子孙作祭司的，要奉上血，把血洒在会幕门口、坛的四边。
And he shall slaughter the young bull before Jehovah; and Aaron's sons the priests shall present the blood and sprinkle the blood on and around the altar that is
at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting.
1:6 那人要剥去燔祭牲的皮，把燔祭牲切成块子。
And he shall skin the burnt offering and cut it into its pieces.
1:7 祭司亚伦的子孙要把火放在坛上，把柴摆列在火上。
And the sons of Aaron the priest shall put fire on the altar and arrange the wood in order on the fire.
1:8 亚伦子孙作祭司的，要把肉块、头和脂油，摆列在坛上火的柴上。
Then Aaron's sons the priests shall arrange the pieces, the head, and the fat in order on the wood that is on the fire which is on the altar;
1:9 但燔祭牲的内脏与腿，那人要用水洗。祭司要把这一切全烧在坛上，当作燔祭，献与耶和华为怡爽香气的火祭。
But its inward parts and its legs he shall wash with water. Then the priest shall burn the whole on the altar, as a burnt offering, an offering by fire, a satisfying
fragrance to Jehovah.
1:10 人的供物若以羊为燔祭，或绵羊或山羊，就要献上没有残疾的公羊。
And if his offering is from the flock, of the sheep or of the goats, for a burnt offering, he shall present it, a male without blemish.
1:11 他要把羊宰于坛的北面，在耶和华面前；亚伦子孙作祭司的，要把血洒在坛的四边。
And he shall slaughter it on the side of the altar northward before Jehovah, and Aaron's sons the priests shall sprinkle its blood on and around the altar.
1:12 那人要把燔祭牲切成块子，切下头和脂油，祭司要把这些摆列在坛上火的柴上。
And he shall cut it into its pieces with its head and its fat, and the priest shall arrange them in order on the wood that is on the fire which is on the altar;
1:13 但内脏与腿，那人要用水洗。祭司要把这一切全然献上，烧在坛上；这是燔祭，是献与耶和华为怡爽香气的火祭。
But the inward parts and the legs he shall wash with water. Then the priest shall present the whole and burn it on the altar; it is a burnt offering, an offering by fire,
a satisfying fragrance to Jehovah.
1:14 人献给耶和华的供物，若以鸟为燔祭，就要献斑鸠或雏鸽为供物。
And if his offering to Jehovah is a burnt offering of birds, then he shall present his offering of turtledoves or of young pigeons.
1:15 祭司要把鸟拿到坛前，揪下头来，把鸟烧在坛上；鸟的血要流在坛的边上；
And the priest shall present it at the altar and wring off its head and burn it on the altar; and its blood shall be drained out on the side of the altar.
1:16 又要把鸟的嗉囊和羽毛除掉，丢在坛的东面倒灰的地方。
And he shall take away its crop with its feathers and cast it beside the altar toward the east, in the place of the ashes.
1:17 要拿着鸟的两个翅膀，把鸟撕开，只是不可撕断；祭司要把鸟放在坛上，在火的柴上焚烧；这是燔祭，是献与耶和华为怡爽香气的火祭
Then he shall tear it open by its wings without dividing it, and the priest shall burn it on the altar on the wood that is on the fire; it is a burnt offering, an offering by
fire, a satisfying fragrance to Jehovah.
利未记 Leviticus 第 2 章
2:1 若有人献素祭为供物给耶和华，就要用细面浇上油，加上乳香，
And when anyone presents an offering of a meal offering to Jehovah, his offering shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil on it and put frankincense on it.
2:2 带到亚伦子孙作祭司的那里；祭司就要从细面中取出一把来，并取些油和所有的乳香，然后把所取的这些作为素祭记念的部分，烧在坛上，是献与耶
和华为怡爽香气的火祭。
Then he shall bring it to Aaron's sons the priests, and he shall take from it his handful of its fine flour and of its oil with all its frankincense. And the priest shall
burn it as its memorial portion on the altar, an offering by fire, a satisfying fragrance to Jehovah.
2:3 素祭所剩的要归给亚伦和他的子孙；这是献与耶和华的火祭中为至圣的。
And what is left of the meal offering shall be Aaron's and his sons'; it is a thing most holy of Jehovah's offerings by fire.
2:4 你若献炉中烤的物为素祭作供物，就要用细面，作成调油的无酵饼，或抹油的无酵薄饼。
And when you present an offering of a meal offering baked in the oven, it shall be of fine flour, unleavened cakes mingled with oil or unleavened wafers anointed
with oil.
2:5 你的供物若用煎盘上作的物为素祭，就要用调油的无酵细面，
And if your offering is a meal offering baked on a flat plate, it shall be of fine flour mingled with oil, unleavened.
2:6 分成块子，浇上油；这是素祭。
You shall break it in pieces and pour oil on it; it is a meal offering.
2:7 你的供物若用锅里作的物为素祭，就要用油与细面作成。
And if your offering is a meal offering made in a pot, it shall be made of fine flour with oil.
2:8 你要把这些东西作的素祭带到耶和华面前，奉给祭司，带到坛前。
And you shall bring to Jehovah the meal offering that is made of these things and present it to the priest, and he shall bring it to the altar.
102
2:9 祭司要从素祭中取出记念的部分，烧在坛上，是献与耶和华为怡爽香气的火祭。
And the priest shall take up from the meal offering its memorial portion and shall burn it on the altar, an offering by fire, a satisfying fragrance to Jehovah.
2:10 素祭所剩的要归给亚伦和他的子孙；这是献与耶和华的火祭中为至圣的。
And that which is left of the meal offering shall be Aaron's and his sons'; it is a thing most holy of Jehovah's offerings by fire.
2:11 你们献给耶和华的素祭都不可搀酵；因为你们不可烧一点酵、一点蜜当作火祭献给耶和华。
No meal offering that you present to Jehovah shall be made with leaven, for you shall not burn any leaven or any honey as an offering by fire to Jehovah.
2:12 这些物可以献给耶和华作为初熟的供物，只是不可在坛上献为怡爽的香气。
You may present them to Jehovah, as an offering of firstfruits, but they shall not be offered up for a satisfying fragrance on the altar.
2:13 凡献为素祭的供物都要用盐调和，在素祭上不可缺了你神立约的盐；你一切的供物都要配盐而献。
And every offering of your meal offering you shall season with salt, and you shall not omit the salt of the covenant of your God from your meal offering; with all
your offerings you shall present salt.
2:14 你若向耶和华献初熟之物为素祭，就要献上烘过的青穗粒，就是轧下的新穗粒，当作初熟之物的素祭。
And if you present a meal offering of firstfruits to Jehovah, you shall present for the meal offering of your firstfruits new grain roasted with fire, crushed grain of the
fresh ear.
2:15 并要加上油，放上乳香；这是素祭。
And you shall put oil on it and place frankincense on it; it is a meal offering.
2:16 祭司要把其中作为记念的部分，就是一些轧下的穗粒和一些油，并所有的乳香，都焚烧，当作火祭献给耶和华。
And the priest shall burn as its memorial portion, some of its crushed grain and some of its oil, with all its frankincense, as an offering by fire to Jehovah.
利未记 Leviticus 第 3 章
3:1 人献供物为平安祭，若是从牛群中献的，无论是公是母，必用没有残疾的献在耶和华面前。
And if his offering is a sacrifice of peace offerings, if he presents it from the herd, whether male or female, he shall present it without blemish before Jehovah.
3:2 他要按手在供物的头上，宰于会幕门口；亚伦子孙作祭司的，要把血洒在坛的四边。
And he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering and slaughter it at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting, and Aaron's sons the priests shall sprinkle the blood
on and around the altar.
3:3 那人要从平安祭的祭牲中，将火祭献给耶和华。盖脏的脂油和脏上所有的脂油，
And he shall present from the sacrifice of peace offerings an offering by fire to Jehovah. The fat that covers the inward parts and all the fat that is on the inward
parts,
3:4 并两个腰子和腰子上的脂油，就是靠腰两旁的脂油，与肝上连着腰子的网子，都要取下。
And the two kidneys and the fat that is on them, which is on the loins, and the appendage on the liver with the kidneys, he shall remove.
3:5 亚伦的子孙要把这些烧在坛的燔祭上，在火的柴上，是献与耶和华为怡爽香气的火祭。
And Aaron's sons shall burn it on the altar upon the burnt offering, which is on the wood that is on the fire; it is an offering by fire, a satisfying fragrance to
Jehovah.
3:6 人向耶和华献供物为平安祭，若是从羊群中取的，无论是公是母，必用没有残疾的。
And if his offering for a sacrifice of peace offerings to Jehovah is from the flock, he shall present it, male or female, without blemish.
3:7 若献一只羊羔为供物，必在耶和华面前献上。
If he presents a lamb for his offering, then he shall present it before Jehovah.
3:8 他要按手在供物的头上，宰于会幕前；亚伦的子孙要把血洒在坛的四边。
And he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering and slaughter it before the Tent of Meeting, and Aaron's sons shall sprinkle its blood on and around the altar.
3:9 那人要从平安祭的祭牲中，将火祭献给耶和华。祭牲的脂油，整条在靠近脊骨处取下的肥尾巴，盖脏的脂油和脏上所有的脂油，
And he shall present from the sacrifice of peace offerings an offering by fire to Jehovah. Its fat, the entire fat tail which he shall remove close to the backbone, and
the fat that covers the inward parts and all the fat that is on the inward parts,
3:10 并两个腰子和腰子上的脂油，就是靠腰两旁的脂油，与肝上连着腰子的网子，都要取下。
And the two kidneys and the fat that is on them, which is on the loins, and the appendage on the liver with the kidneys, he shall remove.
3:11 祭司要把这些烧在坛上；这是献给耶和华为食物的火祭。
And the priest shall burn it on the altar; it is the food of the offering by fire to Jehovah.
3:12 人的供物若是山羊，必在耶和华面前献上。
And if his offering is a goat, then he shall present it before Jehovah.
3:13 他要按手在山羊头上，宰于会幕前；亚伦的子孙要把血洒在坛的四边。
And he shall lay his hand on its head and slaughter it before the Tent of Meeting, and Aaron's sons shall sprinkle its blood on and around the altar.
3:14 那人要从这祭牲中，将供物当作火祭献给耶和华。盖脏的脂油和脏上所有的脂油，
And he shall present from it his offering, as an offering by fire to Jehovah. The fat that covers the inward parts and all the fat that is on the inward parts,
3:15 并两个腰子和腰子上的脂油，就是靠腰两旁的脂油，与肝上连着腰子的网子，都要取下。
And the two kidneys and the fat that is on them, which is on the loins, and the appendage on the liver with the kidneys, he shall remove.
3:16 祭司要把这些烧在坛上；这是献给耶和华为食物之怡爽香气的火祭；所有的脂油都是耶和华的。
And the priest shall burn them on the altar; it is the food of the offering by fire for a satisfying fragrance; all the fat is Jehovah's.
3:17 在你们一切的住处，脂油和血都不可吃；这要作你们世世代代永远的定例。
It shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations in all your dwelling places that you shall not eat any fat or any blood.
利未记 Leviticus 第 4 章
4:1 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
4:2 你要对以色列人说，若有人无意中犯了罪，行了耶和华所吩咐不可行的什么事，
103
Speak to the children of Israel, saying, If anyone sins without intent, in any of the things which Jehovah has commanded not to be done, and does any one of
them,
4:3 或是受膏的祭司犯罪，使百姓陷在罪里，就当为他所犯的罪，把一只没有残疾的公牛犊献给耶和华为赎罪祭。
If the anointed priest sins so as to bring guilt on the people, then let him present a bull of the herd without blemish to Jehovah for a sin offering for his sin that he
committed.
4:4 他要牵公牛到会幕门口、耶和华面前，按手在牛的头上，把牛宰于耶和华面前。
And he shall bring the bull to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting before Jehovah, and he shall lay his hand on the head of the bull and slaughter the bull before
Jehovah.
4:5 受膏的祭司要取些公牛的血，带到会幕那里，
And the anointed priest shall take some of the blood of the bull and bring it to the Tent of Meeting,
4:6 把指头蘸于血中，在耶和华面前对着圣所的幔子弹血七次，
And the priest shall dip his finger in the blood and sprinkle some of the blood seven times before Jehovah in front of the veil of the sanctuary.
4:7 又把些血抹在会幕内、耶和华面前香坛的四角上，再把公牛所有其余的血倒在会幕门口、燔祭坛的基部。
And the priest shall put some of the blood on the horns of the altar of fragrant incense before Jehovah, which is in the Tent of Meeting; and all the rest of the
blood of the bull he shall pour out at the base of the altar of burnt offering, which is at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting.
4:8 要取下赎罪祭公牛所有的脂油，就是盖脏的脂油和脏上所有的脂油，
And all the fat of the bull of the sin offering he shall take off from it: the fat that covers the inward parts and all the fat that is upon the inward parts,
4:9 并两个腰子和腰子上的脂油，就是靠腰两旁的脂油，
And the two kidneys and the fat that is on them, which is on the loins, and the appendage upon the liver, which he shall remove with the kidneys,
4:10 与肝上连着腰子取下的网子，与从平安祭牲的牛所取的一样；祭司要把这些烧在燔祭坛上。
As it is taken off from the ox of the sacrifice of peace offerings; and the priest shall burn them on the altar of burnt offering.
4:11 公牛的皮和所有的肉，连头带腿，并内脏与粪，
And the skin of the bull and all its flesh with its head and with its legs, and the rest of its inward parts and its dung,
4:12 就是全公牛，要搬到营外洁净之地、倒灰之处，用火烧在柴上；总要在倒灰之处焚烧。
That is, all the rest of the bull he shall bring out to a clean place outside the camp, where the ashes are poured out, and burn it on wood with fire; where the
ashes are poured out it shall be burned.
4:13 以色列全会众若有了过错，行了耶和华所吩咐不可行的什么事，以致有了罪过，是隐而未现，会众没有觉察到的，
Now if the whole assembly of Israel errs, and the matter escapes the notice of the congregation, and they have done any of the things which Jehovah
commanded not to be done and become guilty;
4:14 会众一知道所犯的罪，就要献一只公牛犊为赎罪祭，牵到会幕前。
And when the sin which they have committed becomes known, the congregation shall present a bull of the herd for a sin offering and bring it before the Tent of
Meeting.
4:15 会众的长老要在耶和华面前按手在公牛的头上，把牛宰于耶和华面前。
And the elders of the assembly shall lay their hands on the head of the bull before Jehovah, and one shall slaughter the bull before Jehovah.
4:16 受膏的祭司要取些公牛的血，带到会幕那里，
And the anointed priest shall bring some of the blood of the bull to the Tent of Meeting,
4:17 把指头蘸于血中，在耶和华面前对着幔子弹血七次，
And the priest shall dip his finger in the blood and sprinkle it seven times before Jehovah in front of the veil.
4:18 又把些血抹在会幕内、耶和华面前香坛的四角上，再把所有其余的血倒在会幕门口、燔祭坛的基部。
And some of the blood he shall put upon the horns of the altar which is before Jehovah, that is, in the Tent of Meeting; and all the rest of the blood he shall pour
out at the base of the altar of burnt offering, which is at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting.
4:19 把牛所有的脂油都取下，烧在坛上；
And all its fat he shall take off from it and burn it on the altar.
4:20 他要这样处理这公牛，与处理那赎罪祭的公牛一样。祭司要为他们遮罪，他们就必蒙赦免。
Thus shall he do with the bull; just as he did with the bull of the sin offering, so shall he do with this. And the priest shall make expiation for them, and they will be
forgiven.
4:21 他要把牛搬到营外烧了，像烧头一只牛一样；这是会众的赎罪祭。
And he shall bring out the bull outside the camp and burn it as he burned the first bull; it is the sin offering for the congregation.
4:22 官长若犯了罪，无意中行了耶和华他的神所吩咐不可行的什么事，以致有了罪过，
When a ruler sins and does without intent any one of all the things which Jehovah his God has commanded not to be done and becomes guilty,
4:23 他若知道了自己所犯的罪，就要牵一只没有残疾的公山羊为供物。
If his sin in which he has sinned is made known to him, he shall bring for his offering a male goat, without blemish.
4:24 他要按手在山羊的头上，在宰燔祭牲的地方，宰于耶和华面前；这是赎罪祭。
And he shall lay his hand on the head of the goat and slaughter it in the place where they slaughter the burnt offering before Jehovah; it is a sin offering.
4:25 祭司要用指头蘸些赎罪祭牲的血，抹在燔祭坛的四角上，把其余的血倒在燔祭坛的基部。
And the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering; and the rest of its blood he shall
pour out at the base of the altar of burnt offering.
4:26 所有的脂油，都要烧在坛上，正如平安祭牲的脂油一样。至于他的罪，祭司要为他遮盖，他就必蒙赦免。
And all its fat he shall burn on the altar, like the fat of the sacrifice of peace offerings. And the priest shall make expiation for him on account of his sin, and he will
be forgiven.
4:27 平民中若有人无意中犯了罪，行了耶和华所吩咐不可行的什么事，以致有了罪过，
And if any one of the common people sins without intent by doing any of the things which Jehovah has commanded not to be done and becomes guilty;
4:28 他若知道了自己所犯的罪，就要为所犯的罪，牵一只没有残疾的母山羊为供物。
If his sin which he has committed is made known to him, he shall bring for his offering a female goat, without blemish, for his sin which he has committed.
4:29 他要按手在赎罪祭牲的头上，在宰燔祭牲的地方，把赎罪祭牲宰了。
And he shall lay his hand on the head of the sin offering and slaughter the sin offering in the place of the burnt offering.
104
4:30 祭司要用指头蘸些羊的血，抹在燔祭坛的四角上，把所有其余的血倒在坛的基部。
And the priest shall take some of its blood with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and all the rest of its blood he shall pour out at the
base of the altar.
4:31 又要把羊所有的脂油都取下，正如取平安祭牲的脂油一样。祭司要把这些烧在坛上，给耶和华作为怡爽的香气。祭司要为他遮罪，他就必蒙赦免。
And all its fat he shall remove, just as the fat is removed from the sacrifice of peace offerings; and the priest shall burn it on the altar for a satisfying fragrance to
Jehovah. And the priest shall make expiation for him, and he will be forgiven.
4:32 人若牵一只绵羊羔为赎罪祭的供物，必要牵一只没有残疾的母羊。
And if he brings a lamb as his offering for a sin offering, he shall bring it, a female without blemish.
4:33 他要按手在赎罪祭牲的头上，在宰燔祭牲的地方，宰了作赎罪祭。
And he shall lay his hand on the head of the sin offering and slaughter it for a sin offering in the place where they slaughter the burnt offering.
4:34 祭司要用指头蘸些赎罪祭牲的血，抹在燔祭坛的四角上，把所有其余的血倒在坛的基部。
And the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and all the rest of its blood he
shall pour out at the base of the altar.
4:35 又要把所有的脂油都取下，正如取平安祭牲羊羔的脂油一样。祭司要把这些放在耶和华的火祭上，烧在坛上。至于他所犯的罪，祭司要为他遮盖，他
就必蒙赦免。
And all its fat he shall remove, just as the fat of the lamb is removed from the sacrifice of peace offerings; and the priest shall burn them on the altar upon
Jehovah's offerings by fire. And the priest shall make expiation for him concerning his sin that he has committed, and he will be forgiven.
利未记 Leviticus 第 5 章
5:1 若有人听见传唤作证的声音，他本是见证人，却不把所看见或知道的说出来，他就犯了罪，要担当他的罪孽。
And if anyone sins in that he hears the voice of adjuration when he is a witness, whether he has seen or known about a matter, if he does not utter it, then he
shall bear his iniquity.
5:2 或是有人触着什么不洁之物，无论是不洁之兽的尸体，或不洁之牲畜的尸体，或不洁之爬物的尸体，他却没有觉察到，因此成了不洁，就有了罪过。
Or if anyone touches any unclean thing, whether the carcass of an unclean animal or the carcass of unclean cattle or the carcass of unclean swarming things,
and it escapes his notice, and he is unclean, then he will be guilty.
5:3 或是他触着人的不洁，无论是染了什么不洁，他却没有觉察到，一知道了就有了罪过。
Or if he touches the uncleanness of man, whatever his uncleanness is with which he becomes unclean, and it escapes his notice, when he comes to know it, then
he will be guilty.
5:4 或是有人嘴里冒失发誓，要行恶或行善；无论人在什么事上冒失发誓，他却没有觉察到，一知道了就在其中的一件事上有了罪过。
Or if anyone swears rashly with his lips to do evil or to do good, whatever it is that a man utters rashly with an oath, and it escapes his notice, when he comes to
know it, then he shall be guilty in one of these things.
5:5 他在这件事上有了罪过的时候，就要承认所犯的罪，
And when he is guilty in one of these things, he shall confess that in which he has sinned;
5:6 并要为所犯的罪，把他的赎愆祭，就是羊群中的母羊，或绵羊或山羊，牵到耶和华面前为赎罪祭。至于他的罪，祭司要为他遮盖。
And he shall bring his trespass offering to Jehovah for his sin which he has committed, a female from the flock, a sheep or a goat, as a sin offering; and the priest
shall make expiation for him on account of his sin.
5:7 他的力量若不够献一只羊，就要为所犯的罪，把两只斑鸠或两只雏鸽带到耶和华面前为赎愆祭，一只作赎罪祭，一只作燔祭。
And if he cannot afford a lamb, then he shall bring as his trespass offering to Jehovah for that in which he has sinned two turtledoves or two young pigeons, one
for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering.
5:8 他把这些带到祭司那里，祭司要先把作赎罪祭的那一只献上，从鸟的颈项上揪下头来，只是不可揪断；
And he shall bring them to the priest, who shall present first that which is for the sin offering; and the priest shall pinch off its head at the front of its neck but shall
not sever it;
5:9 他要把些赎罪祭牲的血弹在坛的边上，其余的血要流在坛的基部；这是赎罪祭。
And he shall sprinkle some of the blood of the sin offering upon the side of the altar, and the rest of the blood shall be drained out at the base of the altar; it is a
sin offering.
5:10 他要照例献第二只为燔祭。至于他所犯的罪，祭司要为他遮盖，他就必蒙赦免。
And he shall offer the second as a burnt offering according to the ordinance. And the priest shall make expiation for him on account of his sin which he has
committed, and he will be forgiven.
5:11 他的力量若不够献两只斑鸠或两只雏鸽，就要为所犯的罪带供物来，就是细面一伊法的十分之一为赎罪祭；不可加上油，也不可加上乳香，因为这是
赎罪祭。
But if he cannot afford two turtledoves or two young pigeons, then he shall bring as his offering for that which he has sinned, the tenth of an ephah of fine flour
for a sin offering; he shall put no oil upon it nor put any frankincense upon it, for it is a sin offering.
5:12 他要把供物带到祭司那里，祭司要取出一把作为记念的部分，放在耶和华的火祭上，烧在坛上；这是赎罪祭。
And he shall bring it to the priest, and the priest shall take his handful of it as its memorial portion and burn it on the altar, upon Jehovah's offerings by fire; it is a
sin offering.
5:13 他在这些事的任何一件上所犯的罪，祭司要为他遮盖，他就必蒙赦免。其余的面要归与祭司，和素祭一样。
And the priest shall make expiation for him concerning his sin that he has committed in any of these things, and he will be forgiven. And the rest shall be the
priest's, like the meal offering.
5:14 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
5:15 人若在耶和华的圣物上行事不忠实，无意中犯了罪，就要照你按圣所的舍客勒所估的银价，将赎愆祭牲，就是羊群中一只没有残疾的公绵羊，牵到耶
和华面前为赎愆祭。
If anyone acts unfaithfully and sins without intent in the holy things of Jehovah, then he shall bring his trespass offering to Jehovah, a ram without blemish out of
the flock according to your valuation in silver by shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, for a trespass offering.
5:16 并且他在圣物上的差错要偿还，另外加五分之一，都给祭司。祭司要用赎愆祭的公绵羊为他遮罪，他就必蒙赦免。
105
And he shall make restitution for the holy thing in which he has sinned, and he shall add to it a fifth part of it and give it to the priest. And the priest shall make
expiation for him with the ram of the trespass offering, and he will be forgiven.
5:17 若有人犯罪，行了耶和华所吩咐不可行的什么事，他虽然不知道，还是有了罪过，并要担当他的罪孽。
And if anyone sins and does any of the things which Jehovah has commanded not to be done, though he did not know, he is still guilty and shall bear his iniquity.
5:18 他要照你所估定的价，从羊群中牵一只没有残疾的公绵羊来，给祭司作赎愆祭。至于他无意中所行而不知道的那件错事，祭司要为他遮盖，他就必蒙
赦免。
And he shall bring to the priest a ram without blemish out of the flock according to your valuation for a trespass offering. And the priest shall make expiation for
him concerning the matter in which he erred without intent and did not know, and he will be forgiven.
5:19 这是赎愆祭；因他在耶和华面前确实有了罪过。
It is a trespass offering; he is certainly guilty before Jehovah.
利未记 Leviticus 第 6 章
6:1 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
6:2 若有人犯罪，对耶和华行事不忠实，在同伴寄存于他的物上，或交给他的抵押品上，行了诡诈，或是抢夺或是欺压同伴，
If anyone sins and acts unfaithfully against Jehovah and deceives his associate in regard to a deposit or a security, or by robbery, or has extorted from his
associate,
6:3 或是捡了遗失的物却不说实话；他若在这些事的任何一件上起了假誓，因而犯了罪；
Or has found a lost item and lied about it, if he has sworn falsely in any one of all these things a man may do and sins thereby;
6:4 他既犯罪有了罪过，就要归还他所抢夺的，或是因欺压所得的，或是人寄存于他的，或是所捡的遗失之物，
Then if he has sinned and is guilty, he shall restore that which he took by robbery, or the thing which he got by extortion, or the deposit which was entrusted to
him, or the lost item which he found,
6:5 或是起假誓所得的什么物；他要全数归还，另外加上五分之一，在查出他有罪过的日子交给本主。
Or anything about which he has sworn falsely; he shall even restore it in full, and shall add to it a fifth part of it. He shall give it to the one to whom it belongs, on
the day he is found guilty.
6:6 他还要照你所估定的价，把他的赎愆祭牲，就是羊群中一只没有残疾的公绵羊，牵到耶和华面前，给祭司为赎愆祭。
And he shall bring to Jehovah his trespass offering, a ram without blemish out of the flock according to your valuation for a trespass offering; to the priest he shall
bring it.
6:7 祭司要在耶和华面前为他遮罪；他无论行了什么事，以致有了罪过，都必蒙赦免。
And the priest shall make expiation for him before Jehovah, and he will be forgiven for any of the things which he may have done so as to be guilty.
6:8 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
6:9 你要吩咐亚伦和他儿子们说，燔祭的条例乃是这样：燔祭要整夜在坛上的焚烧处，直到早晨，坛上的火要一直烧着。
Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the law of the burnt offering: The burnt offering shall be on the hearth on the altar all night until the morning, and
the fire of the altar shall be kept burning on it.
6:10 祭司要穿上细麻布衣服，又要把细麻布裤子穿在身上，把坛上燔祭所烧成的灰收起来，放在坛的旁边；
And the priest shall put on his linen garment, and his linen trousers he shall put on his flesh; and he shall take up the ashes to which the fire has consumed the
burnt offering on the altar, and he shall put them beside the altar.
6:11 随后要脱去这衣服，穿上别的衣服，把灰拿到营外洁净之处。
Then he shall take off his garments and put on other garments and carry the ashes outside the camp to a clean place.
6:12 坛上的火要在其上一直烧着，不可熄灭。祭司要每早晨在上面烧柴，把燔祭摆列在上面，并在其上烧平安祭牲的脂油。
And the fire on the altar shall be kept burning on it; it must not go out. And the priest shall burn wood on it every morning, and he shall lay the burnt offering in
order upon it and shall burn the fat of the peace offerings on it.
6:13 火要在坛上一直不断的烧着，不可熄灭。
Fire shall be kept burning on the altar continually; it shall not go out.
6:14 素祭的条例乃是这样：亚伦的子孙要在坛前把这祭献在耶和华面前。
And this is the law of the meal offering: The sons of Aaron shall present it before Jehovah before the altar.
6:15 祭司要从这素祭的细面中，取出一把，又要取些油和素祭上所有的乳香，烧在坛上，献给耶和华为怡爽的香气，作素祭记念的部分。
And one shall take up from it his handful of the fine flour of the meal offering and of its oil and all the frankincense which is on the meal offering, and he shall
burn it on the altar for a satisfying fragrance as its memorial portion to Jehovah.
6:16 所剩下的，亚伦和他子孙要吃，必在圣处不带酵而吃，要在会幕的院子里吃。
And what is left of it Aaron and his sons may eat; it shall be eaten without leaven in a holy place; in the court of the Tent of Meeting they shall eat it.
6:17 烤的时候不可搀酵。这是从所献给我的火祭中赐给他们的分，是至圣的，和赎罪祭并赎愆祭一样。
It shall not be baked with leaven. I have given it as their portion of My offerings by fire; it is most holy, like the sin offering and like the trespass offering.
6:18 凡献给耶和华的火祭，亚伦子孙中的男丁都要吃这一分；这要作你们世世代代永远的定例。凡触着这些祭物的，都要成为圣。
Every male among the children of Aaron shall eat of it; it shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations from Jehovah's offerings by fire; whoever
touches them shall be holy.
6:19 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
6:20 当亚伦受膏的日子，他和他儿子们所要献给耶和华的供物，乃是细面一伊法的十分之一，作为常献的素祭，早晨一半，晚上一半。
This is the offering of Aaron and of his sons, which they shall present to Jehovah in the day when he is anointed: the tenth of an ephah of fine flour for a continual
meal offering, half of it in the morning and half of it in the evening.
6:21 要在煎盘上用油调制；调匀了，你就拿来；要把烤好、分成块子的素祭，献给耶和华为怡爽的香气。
On a flat plate it shall be prepared with oil; when it is mixed, you shall bring it; as a meal offering of baked pieces you shall present it as a satisfying fragrance to
Jehovah.
106
6:22 亚伦的子孙中，受膏接续他作祭司的，要调制这素祭。这是永远的定例；这祭要全烧给耶和华。
And the priest anointed to be in his place from among his sons shall prepare it. It shall be a perpetual statute; it shall be wholly burned to Jehovah.
6:23 凡祭司的素祭要全烧了，不可以吃。
And every meal offering of the priest shall be wholly burned; it must not be eaten.
6:24 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
6:25 你要对亚伦和他儿子们说，赎罪祭的条例乃是这样：要在宰燔祭牲的地方，在耶和华面前宰赎罪祭牲；这是至圣的。
Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, This is the law of the sin offering: In the place where the burnt offering is slaughtered the sin offering shall be slaughtered
before Jehovah; it is most holy.
6:26 为罪献这祭的祭司要吃这祭物，要在圣处，就是在会幕的院子里吃。
The priest who offers it for sin shall eat it. In a holy place it shall be eaten, in the court of the Tent of Meeting.
6:27 凡触着这祭肉的要成为圣；这祭牲的血若溅在什么衣服上，所溅的那一件要在圣处洗净。
Whatever touches its flesh shall be holy. And when any of its blood splashes on a garment, you shall wash whatever was splashed in a holy place.
6:28 惟有煮祭物的瓦器要打碎；若是煮在铜器里，这铜器要擦磨，在水中涮净。
But the earthen vessel in which it is boiled shall be broken; and if it is boiled in a bronze vessel, it shall be scoured and rinsed in water.
6:29 凡祭司中的男丁都可以吃这祭物；这是至圣的。
Every male among the priests may eat of it; it is most holy.
6:30 凡赎罪祭，若有一些血带进会幕，在圣所遮罪，这祭物就不可吃，必用火焚烧。
And any sin offering of which some of the blood is brought into the Tent of Meeting to make expiation in the Holy Place shall not be eaten; it shall be burned with
fire.
利未记 Leviticus 第 7 章
7:1 赎愆祭的条例乃是这样：这祭是至圣的。
And this is the law of the trespass offering; it is most holy;
7:2 人在那里宰燔祭牲，也要在那里宰赎愆祭牲；祭牲的血，祭司要洒在坛的四边。
In the place where they slaughter the burnt offering they shall slaughter the trespass offering, and its blood he shall sprinkle on and around the altar.
7:3 又要献上祭牲所有的脂油，就是肥尾巴，和盖脏的脂油，
And he shall present from it all its fat: the fat tail, and the fat that covers the inward parts,
7:4 并两个腰子和腰子上的脂油，就是靠腰两旁的脂油，与肝上连着腰子取下的网子。
And the two kidneys and the fat that is on them, which is on the loins, and the appendage upon the liver, which he shall remove with the kidneys.
7:5 祭司要把这些烧在坛上，作为献给耶和华的火祭；这是赎愆祭。
And the priest shall burn them on the altar as an offering by fire to Jehovah; it is a trespass offering.
7:6 凡祭司中的男丁都可以吃这祭物；要在圣处吃；这是至圣的。
Every male among the priests may eat of it; it shall be eaten in a holy place; it is most holy.
7:7 赎罪祭怎样，赎愆祭也怎样，两个祭是一个条例：用赎愆祭遮罪的祭司，要得这祭物。
The trespass offering is like the sin offering; there is one law for them: The priest who makes expiation with it shall have it.
7:8 祭司无论为谁献燔祭，要亲自得他所献那燔祭牲的皮。
And the priest who presents anyone's burnt offering, that priest shall have for himself the skin of the burnt offering which he has presented.
7:9 凡在炉中烤的素祭，并在锅里或煎盘上作的，都要归那献祭的祭司。
And every meal offering that is baked in an oven and everything that is made in a pot or on a flat plate shall belong to the priest who presents it.
7:10 所有别的素祭，无论是调油的或是干的，都要归亚伦所有的子孙，大家均分。
And every other meal offering, mingled with oil or dry, shall be for all the sons of Aaron, to each alike.
7:11 人献与耶和华平安祭的条例乃是这样：
Now this is the law of the sacrifice of peace offerings that one shall present to Jehovah:
7:12 他若为感谢而献，就要把调油的无酵饼和抹油的无酵薄饼，并用油调匀细面作的饼，与感谢祭一同献上。
If he presents it for a thanksgiving, then he shall present with the sacrifice of thanksgiving unleavened cakes mingled with oil and unleavened wafers anointed
with oil and saturated cakes of fine flour mingled with oil.
7:13 他要把这供物，与有酵的洞饼，和为感谢所献的平安祭，一同献上。
With cakes of leavened bread he shall present his offering with the sacrifice of his peace offerings for thanksgiving.
7:14 从各样的供物中，他要取一个饼献给耶和华为举祭；这要归给洒平安祭牲之血的祭司。
And from it he shall present one out of each offering as a heave offering to Jehovah; it shall belong to the priest who sprinkles the blood of the peace offerings.
7:15 他为感谢所献平安祭牲的肉，要在献的日子吃，一点不可留到早晨。
And the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings for thanksgiving shall be eaten on the day of his offering; he shall not leave any of it until the morning.
7:16 若所献的供物是为还愿，或是甘心献的，必在献祭的日子吃，所剩下的第二天也可以吃。
But if the sacrifice of his offering is a vow or a freewill offering, it shall be eaten on the day that he presents his sacrifice, and on the next day what remains of it
shall be eaten,
7:17 但所剩下的祭肉，到第三天要用火焚烧；
But what remains of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall be burned with fire.
7:18 第三天若吃了平安祭牲的肉，这祭必不蒙悦纳，人所献的也不算为祭，反成了可憎之物；吃这祭肉的人，必担当他的罪孽。
And if any of the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings is eaten at all on the third day, it will not be accepted, neither will it be reckoned to the one who
presents it; it will be an abomination, and the person who eats of it shall bear his own iniquity.
7:19 祭肉若触着什么不洁之物，就不可吃，要用火焚烧。至于洁净的祭肉，凡洁净的人都可以吃；
And flesh that touches any unclean thing shall not be eaten; it shall be burned with fire. And as for other flesh, anyone who is clean may eat such flesh.
7:20 只是那归与耶和华平安祭牲的肉，人若不洁净而吃了，这人必从民中剪除。
107
But the person who eats of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which belong to Jehovah, with his uncleanness upon him, that person shall be cut off from
his people.
7:21 有人触着什么不洁净的物，或是人的不洁净，或是不洁净的牲畜，或是不洁净的可憎之物，而吃了那归与耶和华平安祭牲的肉，这人必从民中剪除。
And when anyone touches any unclean thing, the uncleanness of man or an unclean beast or any unclean abomination, and eats of the flesh of the sacrifice of
peace offerings, which belong to Jehovah, that person shall be cut off from his people.
7:22 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
7:23 你要对以色列人说，牛的脂油、绵羊的脂油、山羊的脂油，你们都不可吃。
Speak to the children of Israel, saying, You shall not eat any fat of an ox or of a sheep or of a goat.
7:24 自死的和被野兽撕裂的，那脂油可以作别的使用，只是你们绝不可吃。
And the fat of an animal that dies and the fat of an animal which is torn by beasts may be put to any other use, but you shall by no means eat it.
7:25 无论何人吃了献给耶和华为火祭之牲畜的脂油，那人必从民中剪除。
For whoever eats the fat of a beast, from which someone presents an offering by fire to Jehovah, then the person who eats it shall be cut off from his people.
7:26 在你们一切的住处，无论是鸟的血或兽的血，你们都不可吃。
And you shall not eat any blood, either of bird or of beast, in any of your dwelling places.
7:27 无论什么人吃了什么血，那人必从民中剪除。
Any person who eats any blood, that person shall be cut off from his people.
7:28 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
7:29 你要对以色列人说，献平安祭给耶和华的，要从平安祭牲中取供物给耶和华。
Speak to the children of Israel, saying, He who presents the sacrifice of his peace offerings to Jehovah shall bring his offering to Jehovah out of the sacrifice of his
peace offerings.
7:30 他要亲手把耶和华的火祭，就是脂油和胸带来，好把胸在耶和华面前作摇祭，摇一摇。
His own hands shall bring Jehovah's offerings by fire; the fat with the breast he shall bring, that the breast may be waved as a wave offering before Jehovah.
7:31 祭司要把脂油烧在坛上，但胸要归亚伦和他的子孙。
And the priest shall burn the fat on the altar; but the breast shall be for Aaron and for his sons.
7:32 你们要从平安祭牲中，把右腿给祭司作举祭。
And the right thigh you shall give to the priest for a heave offering out of the sacrifices of your peace offerings.
7:33 亚伦子孙中，献平安祭牲之血和脂油的，要得这右腿为分；
The one among the sons of Aaron who presents the blood of the peace offerings and the fat shall have the right thigh as his portion.
7:34 因为我从以色列人的平安祭牲中，取了这摇祭的胸和举祭的腿给祭司亚伦和他子孙；这要作以色列人所守永远的定例。
For the breast of the wave offering and the thigh of the heave offering I have taken from the children of Israel out of the sacrifices of their peace offerings and
have given them to Aaron the priest and to his sons for a perpetual statute to be observed by the children of Israel.
7:35 这是从耶和华的火祭中，作亚伦受膏的分和他子孙受膏的分，正在摩西叫他们前来作祭司事奉耶和华的日子，
This is the anointing portion of Aaron and the anointing portion of his sons, from Jehovah's offerings by fire, in the day when he presented them to serve Jehovah
as priests,
7:36 就是耶和华在膏他们的日子，吩咐以色列人给他们的。这是他们世世代代永远的定例。
Which Jehovah commanded to be given them from the children of Israel in the day that He anointed them. It shall be a perpetual statute throughout their
generations.
7:37 这就是燔祭、素祭、赎罪祭、赎愆祭、承接圣职和平安祭的条例，
This is the law of the burnt offering and of the meal offering and of the sin offering and of the trespass offering and of the filling of hands and of the sacrifice of
peace offerings,
7:38 都是耶和华在西乃山所吩咐摩西的，就是祂在西乃旷野吩咐以色列人献供物给耶和华之日所说的。
Which Jehovah commanded Moses on Mount Sinai, on the day that He commanded the children of Israel to present their offerings to Jehovah in the wilderness
of Sinai.
利未记 Leviticus 第 8 章
8:1 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
8:2 你要将亚伦和他儿子们一同带来，并将圣衣和膏油，与赎罪祭的一只公牛、两只公绵羊和一筐无酵饼都带来，
Take Aaron and his sons with him, and the garments and the anointing oil and the bull of the sin offering and the two rams and the basket of unleavened bread;
8:3 又招聚全会众到会幕门口。
And gather all the assembly at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting.
8:4 摩西就照耶和华所吩咐的行了；于是会众聚集在会幕门口。
And Moses did just as Jehovah had commanded him, and the assembly was gathered at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting.
8:5 摩西对会众说，这就是耶和华所吩咐当行的事。
And Moses said to the assembly, This is what Jehovah has commanded to be done.
8:6 摩西叫亚伦和他儿子们近前来，用水洗了他们。
And Moses brought Aaron and his sons near and washed them with water.
8:7 给亚伦穿上内袍，束上腰带，穿上外袍，又加上以弗得，用其上巧工织的带子束上，把以弗得系在他身上；
And he put the tunic upon him and girded him with the girding sash and clothed him with the robe and put the ephod upon him, and he girded him with the
skillfully woven band of the ephod, and with it he bound it to him.
8:8 又给他戴上胸牌，把乌陵和土明放在胸牌内，
And he placed the breastplate upon him, and in the breastplate he put the Urim and the Thummim.
8:9 把顶冠戴在他头上，在顶冠前面安上金牌，就是圣冠，都是照耶和华所吩咐摩西的。
108
And he placed the turban on his head; and on the turban, on its front, he placed the golden plate, the holy crown; just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
8:10 摩西用膏油抹帐幕和其中所有的，使其分别为圣；
And Moses took the anointing oil and anointed the tabernacle and all that was in it, and sanctified them.
8:11 又用些膏油在坛上弹七次，又抹坛和坛的一切器皿，并洗濯盆和盆座，使其分别为圣；
And he sprinkled some of it on the altar seven times, and anointed the altar and all its vessels, and the laver and its base, to sanctify them.
8:12 又把些膏油倒在亚伦的头上膏他，使他分别为圣。
And he poured some of the anointing oil on Aaron's head and anointed him, to sanctify him.
8:13 摩西叫亚伦的儿子们近前来，给他们穿上内袍，束上腰带，裹上头巾，都是照耶和华所吩咐摩西的。
And Moses brought Aaron's sons near, and clothed them with tunics and girded them with girding sashes and bound high hats on them, just as Jehovah had
commanded Moses.
8:14 他牵了赎罪祭的公牛来，亚伦和他儿子们按手在赎罪祭公牛的头上；
And he brought the bull of the sin offering, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the bull of the sin offering.
8:15 他就宰了公牛。摩西用指头蘸些血，抹在坛周围的四角上，使坛洁净，把其余的血倒在坛的基部，使坛分别为圣，为坛遮罪。
And he slaughtered it; and Moses took the blood and put some of it on and around the horns of the altar with his finger, and purified the altar, and poured out
the rest of the blood at the base of the altar and sanctified it, to make expiation for it.
8:16 又取脏上所有的脂油和肝上的网子，并两个腰子与腰子上的脂油，都烧在坛上；
And he took all the fat that was on the inward parts and the appendage of the liver and the two kidneys and their fat, and Moses burned them on the altar.
8:17 惟有公牛，连皮带肉并粪，用火烧在营外，都是照耶和华所吩咐摩西的。
But the bull and its skin and its flesh and its dung he burned with fire outside the camp, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
8:18 他牵了燔祭的公绵羊来，亚伦和他儿子们按手在羊的头上；
And he presented the ram of the burnt offering, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram.
8:19 他就宰了公羊。摩西把血洒在坛的四边，
And he slaughtered it, and Moses sprinkled the blood on and around the altar.
8:20 把羊切成块子，把头和肉块并脂油都烧了。
And he cut the ram into its pieces, and Moses burned the head and the pieces and the fat.
8:21 用水洗了内脏和腿，就把全羊烧在坛上；这是燔祭，作为怡爽的香气，是献给耶和华的火祭，都是照耶和华所吩咐摩西的。
And the inward parts and the legs he washed with water, and Moses burned the whole ram on the altar. It was a burnt offering for a satisfying fragrance; it was
an offering by fire to Jehovah, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
8:22 他又把第二只公绵羊，就是承接圣职所献的羊牵来，亚伦和他儿子们按手在羊的头上；
And he presented the other ram, the ram of the filling of hands, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram.
8:23 他就宰了羊。摩西把些血抹在亚伦的右耳垂上，和右手的大拇指上，并右脚的大拇指上。
And he slaughtered it, and Moses took some of its blood and put it on the lobe of Aaron's right ear and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his
right foot.
8:24 又叫亚伦的儿子们近前来，把些血抹在他们的右耳垂上，和右手的大拇指上，并右脚的大拇指上；又把其余的血洒在坛的四边。
And he brought Aaron's sons near, and Moses put some of the blood on the lobe of their right ear and on the thumb of their right hand and on the big toe of their
right foot; and Moses sprinkled the rest of the blood on and around the altar.
8:25 又取脂油和肥尾巴，并脏上所有的脂油和肝上的网子，两个腰子和腰子上的脂油，并右腿，
And he took the fat and the fat tail and all the fat that was on the inward parts, and the appendage of the liver, and the two kidneys and their fat, and the right
thigh;
8:26 再从耶和华面前装无酵饼的筐子中取一个无酵饼，一个调油的饼和一个薄饼，都放在脂油和右腿上，
And from the basket of unleavened bread that was before Jehovah, he took one unleavened cake and one cake of oiled bread and one wafer, and placed them
on the fat portions and on the right thigh.
8:27 把这一切放在亚伦的手上和他儿子们的手上，作为摇祭，在耶和华面前摇一摇。
And he put all these in the palms of Aaron and in the palms of his sons, and he waved them as a wave offering before Jehovah.
8:28 摩西从他们的手上接过来，烧在坛上的燔祭上，都是承接圣职所献怡爽的香气，是献给耶和华的火祭。
And Moses took them from their palms and burned them on the altar upon the burnt offering. They were an offering of the filling of hands for a satisfying
fragrance; it was an offering by fire to Jehovah.
8:29 摩西拿羊的胸作为摇祭，在耶和华面前摇一摇，是承接圣职所献的公绵羊中，归摩西的分，都是照耶和华所吩咐摩西的。
And Moses took the breast and waved it as a wave offering before Jehovah; it was Moses' portion of the ram of the filling of hands, just as Jehovah had
commanded Moses.
8:30 摩西取些膏油和坛上的血，弹在亚伦和他的衣服上，并他儿子们和他们的衣服上，使他们和他们的衣服都分别为圣。
And Moses took some of the anointing oil and some of the blood that was on the altar and sprinkled it on Aaron, on his garments, and on his sons and on his
sons' garments with him; and he sanctified Aaron, his garments, and his sons and his sons' garments with him.
8:31 摩西对亚伦和他儿子们说，要把肉煮在会幕门口，在那里吃，又吃承接圣职筐子里的饼，正如我所吩咐的，说，这是亚伦和他儿子们要吃的。
And Moses said to Aaron and to his sons, Boil the flesh at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting, and eat it there with the bread that is in the basket of the filling of
hands, just as I commanded, saying, Aaron and his sons shall eat it.
8:32 剩下的肉和饼，你们要用火焚烧。
And what is left of the flesh and of the bread you shall burn with fire.
8:33 你们七天不可出会幕的门，直到你们承接圣职的日子满了，因为你们要七天承接圣职。
And you shall not go out from the entrance of the Tent of Meeting for seven days, until the days of your filling of hands is fulfilled, for it will take seven days to fill
your hands.
8:34 今天所行的，耶和华吩咐要照样去行，为你们遮罪。
As has been done this day, so Jehovah has commanded to do, to make expiation for you.
8:35 七天你们要昼夜住在会幕门口，遵守耶和华的吩咐，免得你们死亡，因为所吩咐我的就是这样。
And at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting you shall stay day and night seven days, and keep the charge of Jehovah, that you may not die; for so I have been
commanded.
109
8:36 于是亚伦和他儿子们行了耶和华借着摩西所吩咐的一切事。
And Aaron and his sons did all the things which Jehovah had commanded through Moses.
利未记 Leviticus 第 9 章
9:1 到了第八天，摩西召了亚伦和他儿子们，并以色列的众长老来；
Now on the eighth day Moses called Aaron and his sons and the elders of Israel;
9:2 他对亚伦说，你当为自己取牛群中的一只牛犊作赎罪祭，一只公绵羊作燔祭，都要没有残疾的，献在耶和华面前。
And he said to Aaron, Take for yourself a calf of the herd for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering, without blem- ish, and present them before Jehovah.
9:3 你也要对以色列人说，你们当取一只公山羊作赎罪祭，又取一只牛犊和一只绵羊羔，都要一岁、没有残疾的，作燔祭，
Then to the children of Israel you shall speak, saying, Take a male goat for a sin offering; and a calf and a lamb, both a year old without blemish, for a burnt
offering;
9:4 又取一只公牛和一只公绵羊作平安祭，献在耶和华面前，并取调油的素祭；因为今天耶和华要向你们显现。
And an ox and a ram for peace offerings, to sacrifice before Jehovah; and a meal offering mingled with oil; for today Jehovah will appear to you.
9:5 于是他们把摩西所吩咐的，带到会幕前；全会众都近前来，站在耶和华面前。
So they brought what Moses had commanded before the Tent of Meeting, and all the assembly came near and stood before Jehovah.
9:6 摩西说，这是耶和华吩咐你们行的；耶和华的荣光要向你们显现。
And Moses said, This is what Jehovah has commanded you to do. And the glory of Jehovah shall appear to you.
9:7 摩西对亚伦说，你就近坛前，献你的赎罪祭和燔祭，为自己与百姓遮罪，又献上百姓的供物，为他们遮罪，都照耶和华所吩咐的。
Then Moses said to Aaron, Come near to the altar and offer your sin offering and your burnt offering, and make expiation for yourself and for the people; and
make the offering of the people and make expiation for them; just as Jehovah has commanded.
9:8 于是，亚伦就近坛前，宰了为自己作赎罪祭的牛犊。
So Aaron came near to the altar and slaughtered the calf of the sin offering, which was for himself.
9:9 亚伦的儿子们把血奉给他，他就把指头蘸在血中，抹在坛的四角上，又把其余的血倒在坛的基部。
And the sons of Aaron presented the blood to him; and he dipped his finger in the blood and put it on the horns of the altar, and the rest of the blood he poured
out at the base of the altar.
9:10 惟有赎罪祭牲的脂油和腰子，并肝上的网子，都烧在坛上，是照耶和华所吩咐摩西的；
But the fat and the kidneys and the appendage of the liver of the sin offering he burned on the altar, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
9:11 又用火将肉和皮烧在营外。
And the flesh and the skin he burned with fire outside the camp.
9:12 亚伦宰了燔祭牲，他儿子们把血递给他，他就洒在坛的四边。
Then he slaughtered the burnt offering; and Aaron's sons handed the blood to him, and he sprinkled it on and around the altar.
9:13 他们又把燔祭牲一块一块的，连头递给他；他都烧在坛上。
And they handed the burnt offering to him, piece by piece, and the head; and he burned them on the altar.
9:14 他又洗了内脏和腿，烧在坛上的燔祭上。
And he washed the inward parts and the legs and burned them upon the burnt offering on the altar.
9:15 然后他奉上百姓的供物，把那给百姓作赎罪祭的公山羊宰了，为罪献上，和先献的一样；
Then he presented the people's offering, and took the goat of the sin offering which was for the people and slaughtered it and offered it for sin, like the first.
9:16 也奉上燔祭，照例而献。
And he presented the burnt offering and offered it according to the ordinance.
9:17 他又奉上素祭，从其中取一满把，烧在坛上；这是在早晨的燔祭以外。
Then he presented the meal offering and filled his hand with some of it and burned it on the altar, besides the burnt offering of the morning.
9:18 亚伦宰了那给百姓作平安祭的公牛和公绵羊。他儿子们把血递给他，他就洒在坛的四边；
Then he slaughtered the ox and the ram, the sacrifice of peace offerings which was for the people; and Aaron's sons handed the blood to him, which he
sprinkled on and around the altar.
9:19 他们又把公牛和公绵羊的脂油，肥尾巴，并盖脏的脂油与腰子，和肝上的网子拿来，
And the fat portions of the ox and of the ram, the fat tail, and the fat which covers the inward parts and the kidneys and the appendage of the liver -
9:20 把这些脂油放在胸上，他就把脂油烧在坛上。
These fat portions they then put on the breasts; and he burned the fat portions on the altar.
9:21 胸和右腿，亚伦当作摇祭，在耶和华面前摇一摇，都是照摩西所吩咐的。
And the breasts and the right thigh Aaron waved for a wave offering before Jehovah, just as Moses had commanded.
9:22 亚伦向百姓举手，为他们祝福。他献了赎罪祭、燔祭、平安祭，就下来了。
And Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people and blessed them, and he came down from offering the sin offering and the burnt offering and the peace
offerings.
9:23 摩西、亚伦进入会幕，又出来为百姓祝福；耶和华的荣光就向众民显现。
And Moses and Aaron went into the Tent of Meeting. And they came out and blessed the people; and the glory of Jehovah appeared to all the people.
9:24 有火从耶和华面前出来，在坛上烧尽燔祭和脂油；众民一见，就都欢呼，面伏于地。
Then fire came forth from before Jehovah and consumed the burnt offering and the fat portions on the altar; and when all the people saw it, they gave a ringing
shout and fell on their faces.
利未记 Leviticus 第 10 章
10:1 亚伦的儿子拿答、亚比户各拿自己的香炉，盛上火，加上香，在耶和华面前献上凡火，是耶和华没有吩咐他们的。
And Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each took his censer, and put fire in them and laid incense on it, and they presented strange fire before Jehovah,
which He had not commanded them.
110
10:2 就有火从耶和华面前出来，把他们烧灭，他们就死在耶和华面前。
And fire came out from before Jehovah and consumed them, and they died before Jehovah.
10:3 于是摩西对亚伦说，这就是耶和华所说，在亲近我的人中，我要显为圣别；在众民面前，我要得着荣耀。亚伦就默默不言。
Then Moses said to Aaron, This is what Jehovah spoke, saying, In those who come near to Me I will be sanctified, And before all the people I will be glorified. And
Aaron was silent.
10:4 摩西召了亚伦叔父乌薛的儿子米沙利、以利撒反来，对他们说，近前来，把你们的弟兄从圣所前抬到营外。
And Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel the uncle of Aaron, and said to them, Come near, carry your brothers from before the sanctuary to
the outside of the camp.
10:5 于是二人近前来，把他们穿着祭司内袍抬到营外，是照摩西所说的。
So they came near and carried them in their tunics to the outside of the camp, just as Moses had said.
10:6 摩西对亚伦和他儿子以利亚撒、以他玛说，不可蓬头散发，也不可撕裂衣裳，免得你们死亡，又免得耶和华向全会众发怒；只是你们的弟兄以色列全
家，要为耶和华所燃起的火哀哭。
Then Moses said to Aaron and to his sons Eleazar and Ithamar, Do not dishevel the hair of your heads, and do not tear your garments, that you may not die and
that He may not be angry with all the assembly. But let your brothers, the whole house of Israel, weep for the burning which Jehovah has kindled.
10:7 你们也不可出会幕的门，恐怕你们死亡，因为耶和华的膏油在你们身上。他们就照摩西的话行了。
And you shall not go out from the entrance of the Tent of Meeting, lest you die; for the anointing oil of Jehovah is upon you. And they did according to the word of
Moses.
10:8 耶和华对亚伦说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Aaron, saying,
10:9 你和你儿子们进会幕的时候，淡酒、浓酒都不可喝，免得你们死亡；这要作你们世世代代永远的定例，
Drink no wine or strong drink, neither you nor your sons with you, when you come into the Tent of Meeting, that you may not die; it shall be a perpetual statute
throughout your generations,
10:10 使你们可以将圣的和俗的，洁净的和不洁净的，分别出来；
Both to make a distinction between the holy and the common, and between the unclean and the clean;
10:11 又使你们可以将耶和华藉摩西告诉以色列人的一切律例，教导他们。
And to teach the children of Israel all the statutes which Jehovah has spoken to them through Moses.
10:12 摩西对亚伦和他剩下的儿子以利亚撒、以他玛说，你们把献给耶和华火祭中所剩的素祭拿来，在坛旁不带酵而吃，因为这是至圣的。
Then Moses spoke to Aaron and to Eleazar and to Ithamar, his sons who were left, Take the meal offering which remains of Jehovah's offerings by fire, and eat it
unleavened beside the altar; for it is most holy.
10:13 你们要在圣处吃，因为在献给耶和华的火祭中，这是你的分和你儿子们的分；所吩咐我的本是这样。
And you shall eat it in a holy place, because it is your due and your sons' due of Jehovah's offerings by fire; for so I have been commanded.
10:14 摇祭的胸和举祭的腿，你们要在洁净的地方吃。你和你的儿女都要同吃，因为这些是从以色列人的平安祭中给的，作你的分和你儿子们的分。
And the breast of the wave offering and the thigh of the heave offering you shall eat in a clean place, you and your sons and your daughters with you; for they
have been given as your due and your sons' due out of the sacrifices of the peace offerings of the children of Israel.
10:15 他们要把举祭的腿和摇祭的胸，连同火祭的脂油，带来作摇祭，在耶和华面前摇一摇；这要作你和你儿子们永远的定例，都是照耶和华所吩咐的。
The thigh of the heave offering and the breast of the wave offering they shall bring with the offerings by fire of the fat portions to wave as a wave offering before
Jehovah, and it shall become a perpetual statute for you and for your sons with you, just as Jehovah has commanded.
10:16 当下摩西急切的寻找作赎罪祭的公山羊，谁知已经焚烧了，便向亚伦剩下的儿子以利亚撒、以他玛发怒，说，
Then Moses diligently inquired about the goat of the sin offering, but it had already been burned. So he was angry with Eleazar and with Ithamar the sons of
Aaron who were left, saying,
10:17 这赎罪祭既是至圣的，耶和华又给了你们，要你们担当会众的罪孽，在祂面前为他们遮罪，你们为何没有在圣所吃呢？
Why have you not eaten the sin offering in the place of the sanctuary? For it is most holy, and He gave it to you to bear the iniquity of the assembly, to make
expiation for them before Jehovah.
10:18 看哪，这祭牲的血并没有拿到圣所里去；你们本当照我所吩咐的，在圣所里吃这祭肉。
Now its blood was not brought inside, into the sanctuary; you should certainly have eaten it in the sanctuary, just as I commanded.
10:19 但亚伦对摩西说，今天他们在耶和华面前献上赎罪祭和燔祭，我又遇见这样的事；今天我若吃了赎罪祭，耶和华岂能看为美呢？
But Aaron spoke to Moses, See, today they have presented their sin offering and their burnt offering before Jehovah, and such things as these have befallen me!
And if I had eaten the sin offering today, would it have been good in the sight of Jehovah?
10:20 摩西听了这话，便以为美。
And when Moses heard that, it seemed good in his sight.
利未记 Leviticus 第 11 章
11:1 耶和华对摩西、亚伦说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying to them,
11:2 你们要对以色列人说，地上一切走兽中，你们可以吃的活物乃是这些：
Speak to the children of Israel, saying, These are the animals which you may eat among all the beasts that are on the earth.
11:3 凡分蹄，就是蹄裂两瓣，并且反刍的走兽，你们都可以吃。
Whatever has a divided hoof, that is, has its hoof split in two, and chews the cud among the beasts, that you may eat.
11:4 但那反刍或分蹄之中不可吃的乃是这些：骆驼，因为反刍却不分蹄，对你们就不洁净；
However these you shall not eat: of those that only chew the cud or of those that only have a divided hoof: the camel, for though it chews the cud, it does not
have a divided hoof; it is unclean to you.
11:5 石獾，因为反刍却不分蹄，对你们就不洁净；
And the hyrax, for though it chews the cud, it does not have a divided hoof; it is unclean to you.
11:6 兔子，因为反刍却不分蹄，对你们就不洁净；
And the hare, for though it chews the cud, it does not have a divided hoof; it is unclean to you.
111
11:7 猪，因为分蹄，就是蹄裂两瓣，却不反刍，对你们就不洁净。
And the pig, for though it has a divided hoof, that is, it has its hoof split in two, it does not chew the cud; it is unclean to you.
11:8 这些兽的肉，你们不可吃；它们的尸体，你们不可触摸，对你们都不洁净。
You shall not eat of their flesh, nor shall you touch their carcasses; they are unclean to you.
11:9 水中可吃的乃是这些：凡在水里，无论在海里或河里，有鳍有鳞的，你们都可以吃。
These you may eat of all that are in the water: anything in the water that has fins and scales, in the seas or in the rivers; these you may eat.
11:10 凡在水里滋生的物，并在水里的活物，无论在海里或河里，无鳍无鳞的，对你们都是可憎之物。
But anything that does not have fins and scales in the seas and in the rivers, of anything that swarms in the waters and of any living animal which is in the waters,
they are an abomination to you,
11:11 这些对你们总是可憎之物；你们不可吃它们的肉，它们的尸体也当看为可憎之物。
And they shall be an abomination to you; you shall not eat of their flesh, and their carcasses you shall regard as an abomination.
11:12 凡水里无鳍无鳞的，对你们都是可憎之物。
Anything in the water that does not have fins or scales is an abomination to you.
11:13 飞鸟中你们当看为可憎之物，不可吃的乃是这些：雕、狗头雕、红头雕、
And these you shall regard as an abomination among the birds; they shall not be eaten; they are an abomination: the great vulture and the bearded vulture and
the black vulture
11:14 鸢、隼与其类，
And the kite and the falcon of every kind,
11:15 乌鸦与其类，
Every raven of every kind,
11:16 鸵鸟、夜鹰、海鸥、鹰与其类，
And the ostrich and the nighthawk and the sea gull and the hawk of every kind,
11:17 鸱鸮、鸬鹚、猫头鹰、
And the little owl and the cormorant and the great owl
11:18 叫鸮、鹈鹕、秃雕、
And the screech owl and the pelican and the carrion vulture
11:19 鹳、鹭鸶与其类，戴胜与蝙蝠。
And the stork; the heron of every kind and the hoopoe and the bat;
11:20 凡用四足行动，能飞的昆虫，对你们都是可憎之物。
All flying insects that go on all fours are an abomination to you.
11:21 只是用四足行动，能飞的昆虫中，足上有腿，可用以在地上蹦跳的，你们还可以吃。
Yet these you may eat of all flying insects that go on all fours, which have legs above their feet with which to leap on the earth;
11:22 其中有群蝗与其类，蚂蚱与其类，蟋蟀与其类，蚱蜢与其类，这些你们都可以吃。
These of them you may eat: the swarming locust of every kind and the swallowing locust of every kind and the cricket of every kind and the grasshopper of every
kind.
11:23 但是其他有四足，能飞的昆虫，对你们都是可憎之物。
But all the other flying insects which have four feet are an abomination to you.
11:24 这些都能使你们不洁净；凡触着它们尸体的，必不洁净到晚上。
And by these you shall become unclean; whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean until the evening,
11:25 凡拿了尸体任何一部分的，就要洗衣服，并且不洁净到晚上。
And whoever carries any part of their carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening.
11:26 凡走兽分蹄，但蹄不裂成两瓣，也不反刍的，对你们是不洁净的；凡触着它们的就不洁净。
For every beast which has a divided hoof but does not have its hoof split in two or chew the cud is unclean to you; everyone who touches them shall be unclean.
11:27 凡四足的走兽，用掌行走的，对你们是不洁净的；凡触着它们尸体的，必不洁净到晚上。
And whatever goes on its paws, among all beasts that go on all fours, are unclean to you; whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean until the evening.
11:28 拿了它们尸体的，就要洗衣服，并且不洁净到晚上；这些对你们是不洁净的。
And the one who carries their carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening; they are unclean to you.
11:29 地上的爬物对你们不洁净的乃是这些：鼬鼠、鼫鼠、蜥蜴与其类，
And these are unclean to you among the swarming things that swarm on the earth: the weasel and the mouse and the great lizard of every kind,
11:30 壁虎、避役、守宫、蛇医、蝘蜓。
And the gecko and the land crocodile and the lizard and the sand lizard and the chameleon.
11:31 这些爬物对你们都是不洁净的；在它们死后，凡触着它们的，必不洁净到晚上。
These are unclean to you among all the swarming things; whoever touches them when they are dead shall be unclean until the evening.
11:32 其中死了的，掉在什么东西上，这东西就不洁净，无论是木器、衣服、皮子、口袋，不拘是作什么工用的物件，都必须放在水中，必不洁净到晚上，
到晚上才洁净了。
And anything on which one of them may fall when they are dead shall be unclean, whether it is any article of wood or clothing or skin or sackcloth; any article
which is used for any work must be put into water, and it shall be unclean until the evening; then it shall be clean.
11:33 若有掉在什么瓦器里的，其中不拘有什么，就不洁净，你们要把这瓦器打破。
And any earthen vessel into which any of them falls, whatever is in it shall be unclean, and the vessel you shall break.
11:34 一切可吃的食物，沾了这瓦器中的水，就不洁净，并且这瓦器中一切可喝的饮料，也必不洁净。
Any food that could be eaten shall be unclean if water from such a vessel comes upon it, and any liquid that may be drunk shall be unclean if it was in any such
vessel.
11:35 它们的尸体，若有一部分掉在什么物件上，那物件就不洁净，不拘是炉子，是锅台，就要打碎；那些是不洁净的，对你们总是不洁净。
And everything on which part of their carcass falls shall be unclean-an oven or a stove shall be broken in pieces; they are unclean and shall continue to be
unclean to you.
11:36 但泉源或聚水的池子，仍是洁净的；惟有触着那些尸体的，就不洁净。
112
Nevertheless a spring or a cistern collecting water shall be clean, but whatever touches their carcass shall be unclean.
11:37 它们的尸体若有一部分掉在要种的子粒上，子粒仍是洁净的；
And if any part of their carcass falls on any seed for sowing, which is to be sown, it is clean.
11:38 若水已经浇在子粒上，那尸体有一部分掉在上头，这子粒对你们就不洁净。
But if water is put on the seed, and any part of their carcass fall on it, it is unclean to you.
11:39 你们可吃的走兽若是死了，有人触着它的尸体，必不洁净到晚上；
And if any beast which you have for food dies, the one who touches its carcass shall be unclean until the evening.
11:40 有人吃了那尸体，就要洗衣服，并且不洁净到晚上；拿了那尸体的，也要洗衣服，并且不洁净到晚上。
And he who eats some of its carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening; the one who carries its carcass shall also wash his clothes and be
unclean until the evening.
11:41 凡地上的爬物，都是可憎之物，都不可吃。
Now every swarming thing that swarms upon the earth is an abomination; it shall not be eaten.
11:42 凡用肚子行走的和用四足行走的，或是有许多足的，就是一切地上的爬物，你们都不可吃，因为它们是可憎之物。
Whatever goes on its stomach and whatever goes on all fours, or whatever has many feet, even all the swarming things that swarm on the earth, you shall not
eat them, for they are an abomination.
11:43 你们不可因什么爬物使自己成为可憎的，也不可因这些使自己不洁净，以致染了污秽。
You shall not make yourselves abominable with any swarming thing that swarms, nor shall you make yourselves unclean with them, and so become defiled by
them.
11:44 我是耶和华你们的神；所以你们要使自己分别为圣，成为圣别，因为我是圣别的。你们总不可因地上爬行的物污秽自己。
For I am Jehovah your God. Sanctify yourselves therefore, and be holy, for I am holy. And you shall not defile yourselves with any of the swarming things that
move upon the earth.
11:45 我是领你们从埃及地上来的耶和华，要作你们的神；所以你们要圣别，因为我是圣别的。
For I am Jehovah, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt to be your God; you shall therefore be holy, for I am holy.
11:46 这是走兽、飞鸟、和水中游动的活物、并地上爬行之物的条例；
This is the law of the beast and of the bird, and of every living animal that moves in the waters, and of every creature that swarms upon the earth;
11:47 要把洁净的和不洁净的，可吃的和不可吃的活物，都分别出来。
To make a distinction between the unclean and the clean, and between the animal that may be eaten and the animal that may not be eaten.
利未记 Leviticus 第 12 章
12:1 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
12:2 你要对以色列人说，若有妇人怀孕，生了男孩，她就不洁净七天，像在月经污秽的日子不洁净一样。
Speak to the children of Israel, saying, If a woman conceives seed and bears a male child, then she shall be unclean seven days; as in the days of her
menstruation, she shall be unclean.
12:3 第八天，要给婴孩行割礼。
And on the eighth day the flesh of his foreskin shall be circumcised.
12:4 妇人要在产血得洁净期中，家居三十三天。她不可摸圣物，也不可进圣所，直到她洁净的日子满了。
And she shall remain in the blood of her purifying thirty-three days; she shall not touch any sanctified thing, nor come into the sanctuary, until the days of her
purifying are fulfilled.
12:5 她若生女孩，就不洁净两个七天，像她在污秽的时候一样；她要在产血得洁净期中，家居六十六天。
But if she bears a female, then she shall be unclean two weeks, as in her impurity; and she shall remain in the blood of her purifying sixty-six days.
12:6 满了洁净的日子，无论是为男孩或为女孩，她要把一岁的羊羔为燔祭，一只雏鸽或一只斑鸠为赎罪祭，带到会幕门口交给祭司。
And when the days of her purifying are fulfilled, for a son or for a daughter, she shall bring a year old lamb for a burnt offering, and a young pigeon or a
turtledove for a sin offering to the priest to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting.
12:7 祭司要献在耶和华面前，为她遮罪，她流血的污秽就洁净了。这条例是为生育的妇人，无论是生男或生女。
And he shall present it before Jehovah and make expiation for her, and she shall be cleansed from the flow of her blood. This is the law for her who bears a child,
whether male or female.
12:8 她的力量若不够献一只羊羔，就要取两只斑鸠或两只雏鸽，一只为燔祭，一只为赎罪祭。祭司要为她遮罪，她就洁净了。
And if she cannot afford a lamb, then she shall take two turtledoves or two young pigeons, one for a burnt offering and the other for a sin offering. And the priest
shall make expiation for her, and she shall be clean.
利未记 Leviticus 第 13 章
13:1 耶和华对摩西、亚伦说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
13:2 人的肉皮上若长了肿块，或长了癣，或长了火斑，在他肉皮上成了痲疯的灾病，就要带他到祭司亚伦或亚伦作祭司的一个子孙面前。
When a man has a swelling or an eruption or a bright spot on the skin of his body, and it becomes an infection of leprosy on the skin of his body, then he shall be
brought to Aaron the priest or to one of his sons the priests.
13:3 祭司要察看肉皮上的灾病，若灾病处的毛已经变白，灾病的现象深于肉上的皮，这便是痲疯的灾病。祭司察看了他，就要定他为不洁净。
And the priest shall look at the infection in the skin of the body; and if the hair in the infection has turned white and the appearance of the infection is deeper than
the skin of his body, it is the infection of leprosy. When the priest has looked at him, he shall pronounce him unclean.
13:4 若火斑在他肉皮上是白的，现象不深于皮，其上的毛也没有变白，祭司就要将有灾病的人隔离七天。
And if the bright spot is white on the skin of his body, and its appearance is not deeper than the skin, and the hair on it has not turned white, then the priest shall
isolate the one who has the infection seven days.
113
13:5 第七天，祭司要察看他，若见灾病止住了，没有在皮上发散，就要将他再隔离七天。
And the priest shall look at him on the seventh day; and if in his eyes the infection remains, and the infection has not spread in the skin, then the priest shall
isolate him seven more days.
13:6 第七天，祭司要再察看他，若灾病发暗，而且没有在皮上发散，就要定他为洁净，那只是癣；那人要洗衣服，就得洁净。
And the priest shall look at him again on the seventh day; and if the infection has faded, and the infection has not spread in the skin, then the priest shall
pronounce him clean; it is only a scab. And he shall wash his clothes and be clean.
13:7 但他将自己给祭司察看，定为洁净以后，癣若在皮上发散开了，他要再将自己给祭司察看。
But if the scab spreads further on the skin after he has showed himself to the priest for his cleansing, he shall show himself again to the priest.
13:8 祭司要察看，癣若在皮上发散，就要定他为不洁净，那是痲疯。
And the priest shall look; and if the scab has spread on the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is leprosy.
13:9 人有了痲疯的灾病，就要带他到祭司面前。
When the infection of leprosy is in a man, then he shall be brought to the priest;
13:10 祭司要察看，皮上若长了白肿块，使毛变白，在肿块之处有了新长的红肉，
And the priest shall look; and if there is a white swelling in the skin, and it has turned the hair white, and there is living raw flesh in the swelling,
13:11 这是肉皮上的旧痲疯，祭司要定他为不洁净，不用将他隔离，因为他是不洁净了。
It is a chronic leprosy on the skin of his body; and the priest shall pronounce him unclean. He shall not isolate him, for he is unclean.
13:12 痲疯若在皮上四外发散，长满了患灾病人的皮，就祭司所能看到的，从头到脚无处不有，
And if the leprosy breaks out further on the skin, and the leprosy covers all the skin of the one who has the infection, from his head even to his feet, as far as the
priest can see,
13:13 祭司就要察看，全身若长满了痲疯，就要定那患灾病的为洁净；全身都变为白，他是洁净了。
Then the priest shall look; and if the leprosy has covered all his body, he shall pronounce him who has the infection clean. It has all turned white; he is clean.
13:14 但红肉几时显在他身上，他就几时不洁净。
But whenever raw flesh appears on him, he shall be unclean.
13:15 祭司看到那红肉，就要定他为不洁净。红肉本是不洁净，那是痲疯。
And the priest shall look at the raw flesh and pronounce him unclean. The raw flesh is unclean; it is leprosy.
13:16 红肉若又变白了，他就要来见祭司。
But if the raw flesh again turns white, then he shall come to the priest.
13:17 祭司要察看，灾病处若变白了，祭司就要定那患灾病的为洁净，他是洁净了。
And the priest shall look at him; and if the infection has turned white, then the priest shall pronounce him who has the infection clean; he is clean.
13:18 人若在肉皮上长疮，却治好了，
And when the body has a boil on its skin, and it has healed,
13:19 在长疮之处又起了白肿块，或是白中带红的火斑，就要给祭司察看。
And in the place of the boil there is a white swelling or a reddish-white bright spot, then it shall be shown to the priest.
13:20 祭司要察看，若现象洼于皮，其上的毛也变白了，就要定他为不洁净，那是痲疯的灾病在疮中发作了。
And the priest shall look; and if its appearance is below the surface of the skin, and the hair on it has turned white, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It
is the infection of leprosy; it has broken out in the boil.
13:21 但祭司察看，若其上没有白毛，也没有洼于皮，乃是发暗，就要将他隔离七天。
But if the priest looks at it, and if there is no white hair in it, and it is not below the surface of the skin, but it has faded, then the priest shall isolate him seven days.
13:22 若在皮上发散开了，祭司就要定他为不洁净，那是灾病。
And if it spreads further in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is an infection.
13:23 火斑若在原处止住，没有发散，不过是疮的疤痕，祭司就要定他为洁净。
But if the bright spot remains in its place and does not spread, it is only the scar of the boil; and the priest shall pronounce him clean.
13:24 人的肉皮上若有了火伤，火伤处的红肉成了火斑，或是白中带红，或是全白，
Or when the flesh has on its skin a burn by fire, and the raw flesh of the burn becomes a bright spot, reddish-white or white,
13:25 祭司就要察看，火斑中的毛若变白了，现象又深于皮，是痲疯在火伤处发作，就要定他为不洁净，那是痲疯的灾病。
Then the priest shall look at it; and if the hair in the bright spot has turned white, and its appearance is deeper than the skin, it is leprosy. It has broken out in the
burn, and the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is the infection of leprosy.
13:26 但祭司察看，在火斑中若没有白毛，也没有洼于皮，乃是发暗，就要将他隔离七天。
But if the priest looks at it, and if there is no white hair in the bright spot, and it is not below the surface of the skin, but it has faded, then the priest shall isolate
him seven days.
13:27 到第七天，祭司要察看他，火斑若在皮上发散开了，就要定他为不洁净，那是痲疯的灾病。
And the priest shall look at him on the seventh day. If it spreads further in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is the infection of leprosy.
13:28 火斑若在原处止住，没有在皮上发散，乃是发暗，是火伤的肿块，祭司要定他为洁净，因为不过是火伤的疤痕。
And if the bright spot remains in its place, and it has not spread in the skin, but it has faded, it is the swelling from the burn; and the priest shall pronounce him
clean, for it is only the scar of the burning.
13:29 男人或女人，若是在头上或胡须上有灾病，
And if a man or woman has an infection on the head or on the beard,
13:30 祭司就要察看这灾病，若现象深于皮，其间有细黄毛，就要定那人为不洁净，这是疥癣，是头上或胡须上的痲疯。
Then the priest shall look at the infection; and if its appearance is deeper than the skin, and there is in it thin yellowish hair, then the priest shall pronounce him
unclean. It is a scale; it is leprosy of the head or of the beard.
13:31 祭司察看疥癣的灾病，若现象不深于皮，其间也没有黑毛，就要将长疥癣灾病的隔离七天。
And if the priest looks at the infection of the scale, and if its appearance is not deeper than the skin, and there is no black hair in it, then the priest shall isolate the
one who has the infection of the scale seven days.
13:32 第七天，祭司要察看灾病，若疥癣没有发散，其间也没有黄毛，疥癣的现象不深于皮，
And on the seventh day the priest shall look at the infection; and if the scale has not spread, and there is no yellowish hair in it, and the appearance of the scale is
not deeper than the skin,
114
13:33 那人就要剃去须发，但他不可剃疥癣之处。祭司要将那长疥癣的，再隔离七天。
Then he shall be shaved, but the scale he shall not shave. And the priest shall isolate the one who has the scale seven days more.
13:34 第七天，祭司要察看疥癣，疥癣若没有在皮上发散，现象也不深于皮，就要定他为洁净；他要洗衣服，便成为洁净。
And on the seventh day the priest shall look at the scale; and if the scale has not spread in the skin, and its appearance is not deeper than the skin, then the
priest shall pronounce him clean. And he shall wash his clothes and be clean.
13:35 但他得洁净以后，疥癣若在皮上发散开了，
But if the scale spreads further in the skin after his cleansing,
13:36 祭司就要察看他；疥癣若在皮上发散，祭司就不必找黄毛，那人是不洁净了。
Then the priest shall look at him; and if the scale has spread in the skin, the priest need not seek for the yellowish hair; he is unclean.
13:37 祭司若见疥癣已经止住，其间也长了黑毛，疥癣已经痊愈，那人是洁净了，就要定他为洁净。
But if in his eyes the scale has remained, and black hair has grown up in it, the scale is healed; he is clean. And the priest shall pronounce him clean.
13:38 男人或女人，肉皮上若起了火斑，就是白火斑，
And when a man or a woman has bright spots on the skin of their body, white bright spots,
13:39 祭司就要察看，他们肉皮上的火斑若是灰白的，这是皮上发作的疹，那人是洁净了。
Then the priest shall look; and if the bright spots on the skin of their body are a dull white, it is a rash that has broken out on the skin; he is clean.
13:40 人头上的发若掉了，他不过是头秃，还是洁净。
And if a man loses the hair of his head, he is bald; he is clean.
13:41 他额顶若掉了头发，他不过是额顶秃，还是洁净。
And if he loses hair from his forehead and his temples, he is bald on the forehead; he is clean.
13:42 头秃处或额顶秃处若有白中带红的灾病，这是痲疯在他头秃处或额顶秃处发作，
But if on the bald head or the bald forehead there is a reddish-white infection, it is leprosy breaking out on his bald head or on his bald forehead.
13:43 祭司就要察看他；那灾病若在头秃处或额顶秃处有肿块，是白中带红的，像肉皮上痲疯的现象，
Then the priest shall look at him; and if the swelling of the infection is reddish- white on his bald head or on his bald forehead, like the appearance of leprosy in
the skin of the body,
13:44 那人就是患痲疯，是不洁净的；祭司要确定他为不洁净，他的灾病是在头上。
He is a leprous man; he is unclean. The priest shall surely pronounce him unclean; his infection is on his head.
13:45 患痲疯灾病的人，他的衣服要撕裂，也要蓬头散发，蒙着上唇，喊叫说，不洁净！不洁净！
And as for the leper in whom the infection is, his clothes shall be torn, and the hair of his head shall be let loose, and he shall cover his upper lip and cry, Unclean,
unclean!
13:46 灾病在他身上的日子，他就是不洁净的；他既是不洁净，就要独居营外。
He shall be unclean all the days during which the infection is in him; he is unclean. He shall live alone; his dwelling shall be outside the camp.
13:47 染了痲疯灾病的衣服，无论是羊毛衣服或麻布衣服，
The garment also that the infection of leprosy is in, whether it is a woolen garment or a linen garment,
13:48 无论是在经上或在纬上，是麻布的或羊毛的，无论是在皮子上或在皮子作的什么物件上，
Whether it is in warp or woof, of linen or of wool, whether in a skin or in anything made of skin,
13:49 这灾病在衣服上或皮子上，经上或纬上，或在皮子作的什么物件上，若是发绿或发红，那就是痲疯的灾病，要给祭司察看。
If the infection is greenish or reddish in the garment or in the skin, or in the warp or in the woof, or in anything of skin, it is the infection of leprosy and shall be
shown to the priest.
13:50 祭司要察看那灾病，把染了灾病的物件隔离七天。
And the priest shall look at the infection and isolate the article which has the infection for seven days.
13:51 第七天，他要察看那灾病。若灾病发散在衣服上，无论是经上或纬上，或在皮子上，这皮子无论当作何用，这灾病是恶性的痲疯，是不洁净了。
Then he shall look at the infection on the seventh day. If the infection has spread in the garment, either in the warp or in the woof, or in the skin, whatever the
purpose the skin is used for, the infection is a malignant leprosy; it is unclean.
13:52 那染了灾病的衣服，无论是经上或纬上，羊毛上或麻布上，或是皮子作的什么物件，他都要焚烧；因为这是恶性的痲疯，必在火中焚烧。
And he shall burn the garment, whether the warp or the woof, in wool or in linen, or anything of skin in which the infection occurs, for it is a malignant leprosy; it
shall be burned in the fire.
13:53 祭司要察看，若灾病在衣服上，经上或纬上，或在皮子作的什么物件上，没有发散，
And if the priest shall look, and if the infection has not spread in the garment, either in the warp or in the woof, or in anything of skin,
13:54 祭司就要吩咐他们，把染了灾病的物件洗了；祭司要把物件再隔离七天。
Then the priest shall command that they wash the thing in which the infection is; and he shall isolate it for seven more days.
13:55 染了灾病的物件洗过以后，祭司要察看，那灾病的现象若没有改变，灾病也没有发散，那物件就不洁净，是腐蚀的灾病，无论里面或外面都蚀光了，
要在火中焚烧。
And after the article with the infection has been washed, the priest shall look at it; and if the infection has not changed its appearance, even though the infection
has not spread, it is unclean. You shall burn it in the fire; it is a leprous decay, whether the bareness is on the inside or on the outside.
13:56 洗过以后，祭司要察看，若见那灾病发暗，他就要把那灾病从衣服上或皮子上，从经上或纬上，都撕去。
And if the priest looks, and if the infection has faded after it was washed, then he shall tear it out of the garment or out of the skin, whether from the warp or from
the woof.
13:57 若再出现在衣服上，经上或纬上，或在皮子作的什么物件上，这就是灾病发散了，必用火焚烧那染灾病的物件。
But if it appears again in the garment, whether in the warp or in the woof, or in anything of skin, it is spreading. You shall burn the article that the infection is in, in
the fire.
13:58 所洗的衣服，无论经或纬，或是皮子作的什么物件，若灾病离开了，要再洗一次，就洁净了。
And the garment, whether the warp or the woof, or any article of skin, which you shall wash, if the infection has departed from them, shall be washed a second
time and shall be clean.
13:59 这就是痲疯灾病的条例，无论是在羊毛衣服或麻布衣服上，在经上或纬上，或皮子作的什么物件上，可以定为洁净或不洁净。
This is the law of the infection of leprosy in a garment of wool or linen, either in the warp or in the woof, or anything of skin, for pronouncing it clean or for
pronouncing it unclean.
115
利未记 Leviticus 第 14 章
14:1 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
14:2 患痲疯的人得洁净的日子，其条例乃是这样：要带他去见祭司；
This shall be the law of the leper on the day of his cleansing: He shall be brought to the priest,
14:3 祭司要出到营外察看，若见他身上痲疯的灾病痊愈了，
And the priest shall go forth outside the camp. Then the priest shall look, and if the infection of leprosy has been healed in the leper,
14:4 就要吩咐人为那求洁净的，拿两只洁净的活鸟、香柏木、朱红色线和牛膝草来。
Then the priest shall command that two living clean birds and cedar wood and scarlet strands and hyssop be taken for the one who is to be cleansed.
14:5 祭司要吩咐人用瓦器盛活水，把一只鸟宰在上面。
And the priest shall command that one of the birds be slaughtered in an earthen vessel over running water.
14:6 至于那只活鸟，祭司要把它和香柏木、朱红色线并牛膝草，一同蘸于宰在活水上之鸟的血中，
As for the living bird, he shall take it and the cedar wood and the scarlet strands and the hyssop, and shall dip them and the living bird in the blood of the bird
that was slaughtered over the running water.
14:7 用以在那患痲疯求洁净的人身上洒七次，就定他为洁净，又把那只活鸟放到田野里。
And he shall sprinkle it on the one who is to be cleansed from the leprosy seven times and shall pronounce him clean. Then he shall let the living bird go into the
open field.
14:8 那求洁净的人当洗衣服，剃去所有的毛发，用水洗澡，就洁净了；然后可以进营，只是要在自己的帐棚外居住七天。
And the one who is to be cleansed shall wash his clothes and shave off all his hair and bathe in water, and he shall be clean. And after that he may come into
the camp, but he shall dwell outside his tent seven days.
14:9 第七天，他要再剃去所有的毛发，把头发、胡须、眉毛、并全身的毛都剃了；又要洗衣服，用水洗身，就洁净了。
And on the seventh day he shall shave off all his hair; he shall shave his head and his beard and his eyebrows, even all his hair. Then he shall wash his clothes
and bathe his flesh in water, and he shall be clean.
14:10 第八天，他要取两只没有残疾的公羊羔和一只没有残疾、一岁的母羊羔，又要把调油的细面一伊法的十分之三为素祭，并油一罗革，一同取来。
And on the eighth day he shall take two male lambs without blemish and one ewe lamb a year old without blemish and three-tenths of an ephah of fine flour for
a meal offering mingled with oil and one log of oil.
14:11 行洁净之礼的祭司，要将那求洁净的人和这些东西安置在会幕门口、耶和华面前。
And the priest who makes him clean shall set the man to be cleansed and those things before Jehovah at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting.
14:12 祭司要取一只公羊羔献为赎愆祭，和那一罗革油一同作摇祭，在耶和华面前摇一摇。
And the priest shall take one of the male lambs and present it as a trespass offering and the log of oil, and wave them as a wave offering before Jehovah.
14:13 他要在宰赎罪祭牲和燔祭牲之地，就是在圣处，宰那只公羊羔；赎愆祭要归祭司，与赎罪祭一样；这是至圣的。
Then he shall slaughter the male lamb in the place where they slaughter the sin offering and the burnt offering, in the place of the sanctuary; for the trespass
offering like the sin offering is the priest's; it is most holy.
14:14 祭司要取些赎愆祭牲的血，抹在求洁净之人的右耳垂上，和右手的大拇指上，并右脚的大拇指上。
And the priest shall take some of the blood of the trespass offering, and the priest shall put it on the lobe of the right ear of the one who is to be cleansed and on
the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot.
14:15 祭司要从那一罗革油中取些倒在自己的左手掌里，
And the priest shall take some of the log of oil and pour it into the palm of the priest's left hand,
14:16 把右手的一个指头蘸在左手掌的油里，在耶和华面前用指头弹油七次；
And the priest shall dip his right finger in the oil that is in the palm of his left hand and sprinkle some of the oil with his finger seven times before Jehovah.
14:17 将手掌里所剩的油抹些在那求洁净之人的右耳垂上，和右手的大拇指上，并右脚的大拇指上，就是抹在赎愆祭牲的血上。
And from the rest of the oil that is in the palm of his hand the priest shall put some on the lobe of the right ear of the one who is to be cleansed and some on the
thumb of his right hand and some on the big toe of his right foot, upon the blood of the trespass offering.
14:18 祭司手掌里所剩的油，要抹在那求洁净之人的头上。然后祭司要在耶和华面前为他遮罪。
And the rest of the oil that is in the palm of the priest's hand he shall put on the head of the one who is to be cleansed. Then the priest shall make expiation for
him before Jehovah.
14:19 祭司要献赎罪祭，为那因不洁净而求洁净的人遮罪；然后要宰燔祭牲，
And the priest shall offer the sin offering and make expiation for the one who is to be cleansed because of his uncleanness, and afterward he shall slaughter the
burnt offering.
14:20 把燔祭和素祭献在坛上。祭司这样为他遮罪，他就洁净了。
And the priest shall offer the burnt offering and the meal offering on the altar. Thus the priest shall make expiation for him, and he shall be clean.
14:21 他若贫穷，力量不够献那么多，就要取一只公羊羔作赎愆祭，摇一摇，为他遮罪；也要把调油的细面一伊法的十分之一为素祭，和油一罗革一同取
来；
But if he is poor and cannot afford so much, then he shall take one male lamb for a trespass offering to be waved to make expiation for him, and one-tenth of an
ephah of fine flour mingled with oil for a meal offering, and a log of oil,
14:22 又照他力量所及的，取两只斑鸠或两只雏鸽，一只作赎罪祭，一只作燔祭。
And two turtledoves or two young pigeons, such as he can afford; and the one shall be a sin offering and the other a burnt offering.
14:23 第八天，他为了得洁净，要把这些带到会幕门口、耶和华面前，交给祭司。
And on the eighth day he shall bring them for his cleansing to the priest, to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting, before Jehovah.
14:24 祭司要取赎愆祭的羊羔，和那一罗革油一同作摇祭，在耶和华面前摇一摇；
Then the priest shall take the lamb of the trespass offering and the log of oil, and the priest shall wave them as a wave offering before Jehovah;
14:25 要宰了赎愆祭的羊羔，取些赎愆祭牲的血，抹在那求洁净之人的右耳垂上，和右手的大拇指上，并右脚的大拇指上。
And he shall slaughter the lamb of the trespass offering. Then the priest shall take some of the blood of the trespass offering and put it on the lobe of the right ear
of the one who is to be cleansed and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot.
116
14:26 祭司要把些油倒在自己的左手掌里，
And the priest shall pour some of the oil into the palm of the priest's left hand,
14:27 用右手的一个指头，把左手掌里的油，在耶和华面前弹七次，
And the priest shall sprinkle with his right finger some of the oil that is in the palm of his left hand seven times before Jehovah.
14:28 又把手掌里的油抹些在那求洁净之人的右耳垂上，和右手的大拇指上，并右脚的大拇指上，就是抹在赎愆祭牲之血的地方。
And the priest shall put some of the oil that is in the palm of his hand on the lobe of the right ear of the one who is to be cleansed and on the thumb of his right
hand and on the big toe of his right foot, upon the place of the blood of the trespass offering.
14:29 祭司手掌里所剩的油，要抹在那求洁净之人的头上，在耶和华面前为他遮罪。
And the rest of the oil that is in the palm of the priest's hand he shall put on the head of the one who is to be cleansed, to make expiation for him before Jehovah.
14:30 那人又要照他力量所及的，献上一只斑鸠或一只雏鸽，
And he shall offer one of the turtledoves or young pigeons, such as he can afford,
14:31 就是照他力量所及的，一只为赎罪祭，一只为燔祭，与素祭一同献上；祭司要在耶和华面前为那求洁净的人遮罪。
Even such as he can afford, one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering, with the meal offering; and the priest shall make expiation for the one who is
to be cleansed before Jehovah.
14:32 这是那有痲疯灾病的人，要得洁净而力量不够时的条例。
This is the law for the one in whom there is the infection of leprosy, who cannot afford what is prescribed for his cleansing.
14:33 耶和华对摩西、亚伦说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
14:34 你们进了我赐给你们为业的迦南地，我若使你们所得为业之地的房屋中有痲疯的灾病，
When you come into the land of Canaan, which I give you for a possession, and I put the infection of leprosy in a house in the land of your possession,
14:35 房主就要去告诉祭司说，据我看，房屋中似乎有灾病。
Then he to whom the house belongs shall come and tell the priest, saying, It seems to me that there is something like an infection in the house.
14:36 祭司进去察看灾病以前，要吩咐人把房子搬空，免得房子里所有的都成了不洁净；然后祭司要进去察看房子。
And the priest shall command that they empty the house before the priest goes in to look at the infection, so that everything which is in the house does not
become unclean; and afterward the priest shall go in to look at the house.
14:37 他要察看那灾病，灾病若在房子的墙上有发绿或发红的凹斑纹，现象洼于墙，
And he shall look at the infection; and if the infection is on the walls of the house with greenish or reddish depressions, and its appearance is deeper than the
surface of the wall,
14:38 祭司就要出到房门外，把房子封锁七天。
Then the priest shall come out of the house to the entrance of the house and shut up the house seven days.
14:39 第七天，祭司要回去察看，灾病若在房子的墙上发散，
And the priest shall return on the seventh day and inspect it. And if the infection has spread in the walls of the house,
14:40 就要吩咐人把那有灾病的石头挖出来，扔在城外不洁净之处；
Then the priest shall command that they take out the stones on which the infection is and throw them away outside the city into an unclean place.
14:41 也要叫人刮房内的四围，所刮掉的灰泥要倒在城外不洁净之处；
And he shall have the house scraped inside all around, and they shall dump the plaster that they scrape off outside the city into an unclean place.
14:42 又要用别的石头代替那挖出来的石头，要另用灰泥墁房子。
And they shall take other stones and put them in the place of those stones, and he shall take other plaster and replaster the house.
14:43 他挖出石头，刮了房子，墁了以后，灾病若在房子里再次发作，
And if the infection returns and breaks out in the house after he has taken out the stones and after he has scraped the house and after it has been replastered,
14:44 祭司就要进去察看，灾病若在房子里发散，这就是房内恶性的痲疯；房子是不洁净了。
Then the priest shall come in and look; and if the infection has spread in the house, it is a malignant leprosy in the house; it is unclean.
14:45 他就要拆毁房子，把石头、木头、灰泥都搬到城外不洁净之处。
And he shall break down the house, its stones and its timber and all the plaster of the house, and he shall bring them outside the city into an unclean place.
14:46 在房子封锁的时候，进去的人必不洁净到晚上。
Moreover, whoever goes into the house all the while that it is shut up shall be unclean until the evening.
14:47 在房子里躺着的，要洗衣服；在房子里吃饭的，也要洗衣服。
And whoever lies down in the house shall wash his clothes, and whoever eats in the house shall wash his clothes.
14:48 房子墁了以后，祭司若进去察看，见灾病在房内没有发散，就要定房子为洁净，因为灾病已经消除。
But if on the other hand the priest comes in and looks, and if the infection has not spread in the house after the house has been replastered, then the priest shall
pronounce the house clean because the infection has been healed.
14:49 他要为洁净房子，取两只鸟、香柏木、朱红色线和牛膝草，
And he shall take two birds and cedar wood and scarlet strands and hyssop to purify the house,
14:50 用瓦器盛活水，把一只鸟宰在上面，
And he shall slaughter one of the birds in an earthen vessel over running water.
14:51 把香柏木、牛膝草、朱红色线和那活鸟，都蘸在被宰之鸟的血中与活水中，用以洒房子七次。
And he shall take the cedar wood and the hyssop and the scarlet strands and the living bird, and dip them in the blood of the bird that was slaughtered and in
the running water, and sprinkle the house seven times.
14:52 他要用鸟血、活水、活鸟、香柏木、牛膝草和朱红色线，洁净那房子；
And he shall purify the house with the blood of the bird and with the running water and with the living bird and with the cedar wood and with the hyssop and with
the scarlet strands.
14:53 但要把活鸟放到城外田野里。他这样为房子遮罪，房子就洁净了。
And he shall let the living bird go, outside the city into the open field. So he shall make expiation for the house, and it shall be clean.
14:54 这是为各类痲疯的灾病和疥癣，
This is the law for any kind of infection of leprosy and for a scale
14:55 并衣服与房子的痲疯，
117
And for the leprosy of a garment and for a house
14:56 以及肿块、癣、火斑所立的条例，
And for a swelling and for an eruption and for a bright spot,
14:57 指示何时为不洁净，何时为洁净。这是痲疯的条例。
To teach when it is unclean and when it is clean. This is the law of leprosy.
利未记 Leviticus 第 15 章
15:1 耶和华对摩西、亚伦说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
15:2 你们要对以色列人说，男人若身患漏症，他所漏泄的是不洁净的。
Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, When any man has a discharge from his body, his discharge is unclean.
15:3 在漏症上，他的不洁净是这样：他身上所漏泄的，无论是流出的或塞住的，都是不洁净的。
And this shall be his uncleanness of his discharge: Whether there is a discharge from his body, or the discharge is blocked in his body, it is his uncleanness.
15:4 患漏症的人所躺的床都不洁净，所坐的物件也不洁净；
Every bed on which he who has the discharge lies shall be unclean, and everything on which he sits shall be unclean.
15:5 凡触着那床的，就要洗衣服，用水洗澡，并且不洁净到晚上。
And whoever touches his bed shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean until the evening.
15:6 凡坐患漏症的人所坐什么物件的，就要洗衣服，用水洗澡，并且不洁净到晚上。
And whoever sits on anything on which he who has the discharge sat shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean until the evening.
15:7 凡触着患漏症的人身体的，就要洗衣服，用水洗澡，并且不洁净到晚上。
And whoever touches the flesh of the one who has the discharge shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean until the evening.
15:8 患漏症的人，若吐唾沫在洁净的人身上，那人就要洗衣服，用水洗澡，并且不洁净到晚上。
And if the one who has the discharge spits on someone who is clean, then he who has been spat on shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean
until the evening.
15:9 患漏症的人所骑的鞍子也不洁净；
And every saddle on which the one who has the discharge rides shall be unclean.
15:10 凡触着他身下什么物件的，必不洁净到晚上；拿了那些物件的，就要洗衣服，用水洗澡，并且不洁净到晚上。
And whoever touches anything that was under him shall be unclean until the evening, and whoever carries those things shall wash his clothes and bathe in
water and be unclean until the evening.
15:11 患漏症的人没有用水涮手，无论摸了谁，谁就要洗衣服，用水洗澡，并且不洁净到晚上。
And whomever the one who has the discharge touches without having rinsed his hands in water, he shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean
until the evening.
15:12 患漏症人所摸的瓦器要打破，所摸的一切木器也要用水涮洗。
And the earthen vessel that the one who has the discharge touches shall be broken, and every vessel of wood shall be rinsed in water.
15:13 患漏症的人得了洁净，没有漏症时，就要为自己得洁净计算七天，也要洗衣服，用活水洗身，就洁净了。
And when one who has the discharge is cleansed of his discharge, then he shall count seven days for himself for his cleansing; then he shall wash his clothes
and bathe his body in running water, and he shall be clean.
15:14 第八天，他要取两只斑鸠或两只雏鸽，来到会幕门口、耶和华面前，把鸟交给祭司。
And on the eighth day he shall take for himself two turtledoves or two young pigeons and come before Jehovah at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting and give
them to the priest.
15:15 祭司要献一只为赎罪祭，一只为燔祭；因那人患的漏症，祭司要在耶和华面前为他遮罪。
And the priest shall offer them, one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering; and the priest shall make expiation for him before Jehovah for his
discharge.
15:16 人若遗精，就要用水洗全身，并且不洁净到晚上。
And if any man's seed of copulation goes out from him, then he shall bathe his entire body in water and be unclean until the evening.
15:17 无论是衣服或皮子，被精所染，就要用水洗，并且不洁净到晚上。
And any garment and any article made of skin on which the seed of copulation comes shall be washed with water and be unclean until the evening.
15:18 若女人与男人同寝交合，两个人都要用水洗澡，并且不洁净到晚上。
If there is a woman with whom a man lies and there is a discharge of seed of copulation, both of them shall bathe in water and be unclean until the evening.
15:19 女人若身患漏症，所漏泄的是经血，必污秽七天；凡触着她的，必不洁净到晚上。
And if a woman has a discharge, and her discharge in her body is blood, she shall be in her impurity seven days; and whoever touches her shall be unclean until
the evening.
15:20 女人在月经污秽时，凡她所躺的物件都不洁净，所坐的物件也不洁净。
And everything that she lies on in her impurity shall be unclean; everything also that she sits on shall be unclean.
15:21 凡触着她床的，就要洗衣服，用水洗澡，并且不洁净到晚上。
And whoever touches her bed shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean until the evening.
15:22 凡触着她所坐什么物件的，就要洗衣服，用水洗澡，并且不洁净到晚上。
And whoever touches anything that she sits on shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean until the evening.
15:23 在她的床上，或在她坐的物件上，若有别的物件，人一触着，必不洁净到晚上。
And if it is on the bed or on anything on which she sits, when anyone touches it, he shall be unclean until the evening.
15:24 男人若与那女人同寝，染了她的污秽，就要七天不洁净；他所躺的床也不洁净。
And if any man actually lies with her and her impurity comes on him, he shall be unclean seven days; and every bed on which he lies shall be unclean.
15:25 女人若在月经污秽期以外患多日的血漏，或是月经污秽期过长，有了漏症，她在血漏不洁净的日子中，与她在月经污秽的日子一样，是不洁净的。
And if a woman has a discharge of her blood for many days not at the time of her impurity, or if she has a discharge beyond the time of her impurity, during all
the days of the discharge of her uncleanness she shall be as if in the days of her impurity; she is unclean.
118
15:26 她在患漏症的日子所躺的床，要像她在月经污秽时所躺的床一样；所坐的物件也都不洁净，像她在月经污秽时一样。
Any bed on which she lies during all the days of her discharge shall be to her like the bed of her impurity; and everything on which she sits shall be unclean, as in
the uncleanness of her impurity.
15:27 凡触着这些物件的，就不洁净，要洗衣服，用水洗澡，并且不洁净到晚上。
And whoever touches those things shall be unclean, and he shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean until the evening.
15:28 女人若得了洁净，没有漏症，就要为自己计算七天，然后才洁净了。
But if she is cleansed of her discharge, then she shall count seven days for herself; and afterward she shall be clean.
15:29 第八天，她要取两只斑鸠或两只雏鸽，带到会幕门口给祭司。
And on the eighth day she shall take for herself two turtledoves or two young pigeons and bring them to the priest at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting.
15:30 祭司要献一只为赎罪祭，一只为燔祭；因那女人血漏不洁，祭司要在耶和华面前为她遮罪。
And the priest shall offer one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering, and the priest shall make expiation for her before Jehovah for the discharge of
her uncleanness.
15:31 你们要这样使以色列人与他们的不洁隔绝，免得他们玷污我在他们中间的帐幕，就因自己的不洁死亡。
Thus you shall separate the children of Israel from their uncleanness, so that they do not die in their uncleanness by their defiling My tabernacle that is in the
midst of them.
15:32 这是患漏症的，和泄精而不洁净的，
This is the law for the one who has a discharge and for the one whose seed of copulation goes out from him and becomes unclean by it,
15:33 并有月经污秽之病的，和男女患漏症的，并男人与不洁净女人同寝的条例。
And for the one who is sick with her impurity, and for anyone who has a discharge, male or female, and for a man who lies with a woman who is unclean.
利未记 Leviticus 第 16 章
16:1 亚伦的两个儿子接近耶和华面前死了；他们死后，耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses after the death of the two sons of Aaron, when they drew near before Jehovah and died.
16:2 你要对你哥哥亚伦说，不可随时进入幔内的至圣所，到柜上的遮罪盖前，免得他死亡，因为我要在云中显现在遮罪盖上。
And Jehovah said to Moses, Tell Aaron your brother that he shall not enter at just any time into the Holy of Holies inside the veil before the expiation cover, which
is upon the Ark, lest he die; for I will appear in the cloud over the expiation cover.
16:3 亚伦进入至圣所，要带一只公牛犊为赎罪祭，一只公绵羊为燔祭。
In this way Aaron shall come into the Holy of Holies: with a bull of the herd for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering.
16:4 他要穿上细麻布圣内袍，把细麻布裤子穿在身上，腰束细麻布带子，头戴细麻布顶冠；这些都是圣衣。他要用水洗身，然后穿戴。
He shall put on the holy linen tunic, and linen trousers shall be upon his body, and he shall gird himself with the linen girdle and be attired with the linen turban;
these are the holy garments. And he shall bathe his flesh in water and put them on.
16:5 他要从以色列会众取两只公山羊为赎罪祭，一只公绵羊为燔祭。
And he shall take from the assembly of the children of Israel two male goats for a sin offering and one ram for a burnt offering.
16:6 亚伦要把为自己作赎罪祭的公牛奉上，为自己和家人遮罪；
And Aaron shall present the bull of the sin offering, which is for himself, and make expiation for himself and for his household.
16:7 也要把两只公山羊安置在会幕门口、耶和华面前。
And he shall take the two goats and set them before Jehovah at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting.
16:8 亚伦要为那两只羊拈阄，一阄归与耶和华，一阄归与阿撒泻勒。
And Aaron shall cast lots on the two goats: one lot for Jehovah and the other lot for Azazel.
16:9 亚伦要把那拈阄归与耶和华的羊献为赎罪祭；
And Aaron shall present the goat on which the lot for Jehovah fell, and offer it as a sin offering.
16:10 但那拈阄归与阿撒泻勒的羊，要活着立在耶和华面前，用以遮罪，使羊可以送到旷野去，归与阿撒泻勒。
But the goat on which the lot for Azazel fell shall be made to stand alive before Jehovah to make expiation over it, that it may be sent away for Azazel into the
wilderness.
16:11 亚伦要把为自己作赎罪祭的公牛牵来，为自己和家人遮罪，把公牛宰了。
And Aaron shall present the bull of the sin offering, which is for himself, and shall make expiation for himself and for his household, and shall slaughter the bull of
the sin offering, which is for himself.
16:12 他要拿一个香炉，从耶和华面前的坛上盛满火炭，又拿一满捧捣细的馨香之香，都带入幔内，
And he shall take a censer full of coals of fire from the altar before Jehovah, with his hands full of finely ground sweet incense, and bring it inside the veil.
16:13 在耶和华面前，把香放在火上，使香的烟云遮掩见证柜上的遮罪盖，免得他死亡；
And he shall put the incense upon the fire before Jehovah, that the cloud of the incense may cover the expiation cover that is over the Testimony, so that he does
not die.
16:14 也要取些公牛的血，用指头弹在遮罪盖上朝东的一面，又在遮罪盖的前面用指头弹血七次。
And he shall take some of the blood of the bull and sprinkle it with his finger upon the expiation cover toward the east, and before the expiation cover he shall
sprinkle some of the blood with his finger seven times.
16:15 随后他要宰那为百姓作赎罪祭的公山羊，把羊的血带入幔内，弹在遮罪盖的上面和前面，好像弹公牛的血一样。
Then he shall slaughter the goat of the sin offering, which is for the people, and bring its blood inside the veil, and do with its blood as he did with the blood of the
bull, and sprinkle it upon the expiation cover and before the expiation cover.
16:16 他要因以色列人诸般的不洁、过犯，就是他们一切的罪，为至圣所遮罪；也要为那在他们不洁之中与他们同住的会幕，照样而行。
And he shall make expiation for the Holy of Holies because of the uncleannesses of the children of Israel and because of their transgressions, for all their sins.
And so he shall do for the Tent of Meeting, which dwells with them in the midst of their uncleannesses.
16:17 他进至圣所遮罪的时候，会幕里不可有人，直等到他为自己和家人并以色列全会众遮了罪出来。
And no one shall be in the Tent of Meeting when he goes in to make expiation in the Holy of Holies until he comes out and has made expiation for himself and
for his household and for all the congregation of Israel.
16:18 他出来，要到耶和华面前的坛那里，为坛遮罪；他要取些公牛的血和公山羊的血，抹在坛周围的四角上；
119
Then he shall go out to the altar that is before Jehovah and make expiation for it, and he shall take some of the blood of the bull and some of the blood of the
goat, and put it on and around the horns of the altar.
16:19 也要用指头把血弹在坛上七次，这样他就洁净了坛，从坛上除掉以色列人诸般的不洁，使坛分别为圣。
And he shall sprinkle some of the blood on it with his finger seven times; thus he will cleanse it and sanctify it from the uncleannesses of the children of Israel.
16:20 亚伦为至圣所和会幕并坛遮罪完毕，就要把那只活着的公山羊奉上。
And when he has finished making expiation for the Holy of Holies and the Tent of Meeting and the altar, he shall present the live goat.
16:21 亚伦要双手按在那只活着的公山羊头上，承认以色列人一切的罪孽和过犯，就是他们一切的罪，把这些都归在羊的头上，并且借着所派的人，送到
旷野去。
And Aaron shall lay both his hands on the head of the live goat and confess over it all the iniquities of the children of Israel and all their transgressions, even all
their sins; and he shall put them on the head of the goat, and shall send it away into the wilderness by means of the man who has been appointed.
16:22 这羊要担当他们一切的罪孽，带到与人隔绝之地；那人要在旷野释放这羊。
Thus the goat shall bear away all their iniquities on itself to a solitary land, and he shall let the goat go in the wilderness.
16:23 亚伦要进会幕，把他进至圣所时所穿的细麻布衣服脱下，放在那里；
And Aaron shall come into the Tent of Meeting and take off the linen garments, which he put on when he went into the Holy of Holies, and leave them there.
16:24 又要在圣处用水洗身，穿上衣服，然后出来，把自己的燔祭和百姓的燔祭献上，为自己和百姓遮罪。
And he shall bathe his body in water in a holy place and put on his garments. Then he shall come out and offer his burnt offering and the burnt offering of the
people, and make expiation for himself and for the people.
16:25 赎罪祭牲的脂油要烧在坛上。
And the fat of the sin offering he shall burn on the altar.
16:26 那放羊归与阿撒泻勒的人要洗衣服，用水洗身，然后进营。
And he who lets the goat go for Azazel shall wash his clothes and bathe his body in water, and afterward he may come into the camp.
16:27 作赎罪祭的公牛和公山羊的血既带入至圣所遮罪，这牛羊就要搬到营外，将皮、肉、粪用火焚烧。
And the bull of the sin offering and the goat of the sin offering, whose blood was brought in to make expiation in the Holy of Holies, shall be carried forth outside
the camp; and they shall burn in the fire their skins and their flesh and their dung.
16:28 焚烧牛羊的人要洗衣服，用水洗身，然后进营。
And he who burns them shall wash his clothes and bathe his body in water, and afterward he may come into the camp.
16:29 每逢七月初十日，你们要刻苦己心，无论是本地人，是寄居在你们中间的外人，什么工都不可作。这要作你们永远的定例。
And this shall become a perpetual statute for you; in the seventh month on the tenth day of the month you shall afflict your souls and not do any work, neither the
native nor the sojourner who sojourns among you.
16:30 因在这日要为你们遮罪，使你们洁净；你们要在耶和华面前得以洁净，脱尽一切的罪。
For on this day expiation shall be made for you, in order to cleanse you; from all your sins you shall be clean before Jehovah.
16:31 这日是你们完全安息的安息日，你们要刻苦己心；这要作永远的定例。
It is a Sabbath of complete rest for you, and you shall afflict your souls. It shall be a perpetual statute.
16:32 那受膏、接续他父亲承接圣职的祭司，要穿上细麻布衣服，就是圣衣，施行遮罪。
And the priest who is anointed and whose hands are filled to serve as a priest in his father's place shall make expiation; thus he shall put on the linen garments,
even the holy garments.
16:33 他要为至圣所遮罪，为会幕和坛遮罪，并为众祭司和会众的百姓遮罪。
And he shall make expiation for the holy sanctuary, and he shall make expiation for the Tent of Meeting and for the altar, and he shall make expiation for the
priests and for all the people of the congregation.
16:34 这要作你们永远的定例，就是因以色列人一切的罪，一年一次为他们遮罪。于是亚伦照耶和华所吩咐摩西的行了。
And this shall become a perpetual statute for you, in order to make expiation for the children of Israel because of all their sins, once in the year. And just as
Jehovah had commanded Moses, so he did.
利未记 Leviticus 第 17 章
17:1 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
17:2 你要对亚伦和他儿子们并以色列众人说，耶和华所吩咐的乃是这样：
Speak to Aaron and to his sons and to all the children of Israel, and say to them, This is what Jehovah has commanded, saying,
17:3 凡以色列家中的人，不拘是在营内或在营外宰公牛、绵羊或山羊，
Anyone of the house of Israel who slaughters an ox or a sheep or a goat within the camp, or who slaughters it outside the camp,
17:4 若未曾牵到会幕门口，在耶和华的帐幕前献给耶和华为供物，流血的罪必算在那人身上。他流了血，就要从民中剪除。
And has not brought it to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting to present it as an offering to Jehovah before the tabernacle of Jehovah, that man shall be
accounted as guilty of bloodshed. He has shed blood, and that man shall be cut off from among his people.
17:5 这是要使以色列人把他们在田野里所献的祭牲带到会幕门口、耶和华面前，交给祭司，献与耶和华为平安祭。
This is so that the children of Israel will bring their sacrifices which they sacrifice in the open field, that they will bring them to Jehovah at the entrance of the Tent of
Meeting to the priest and sacrifice them as sacrifices of peace offerings to Jehovah.
17:6 祭司要把血洒在会幕门口、耶和华的坛上，把脂油焚烧，献给耶和华为怡爽的香气。
And the priest shall sprinkle the blood on the altar of Jehovah at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting and burn the fat for a satisfying fragrance to Jehovah.
17:7 他们不可再献祭牲给他们行邪淫所随从的山羊鬼魔；这要作他们世世代代永远的定例。
And they shall no more sacrifice their sacrifices to the goat demons, to whom they prostitute themselves. This shall become a perpetual statute for them
throughout their generations.
17:8 你要对他们说，凡以色列家中的人，或是寄居在他们中间的外人，献燔祭或平安祭，
And you shall say to them, Anyone of the house of Israel or of the sojourners who sojourn among them, who offers a burnt offering or sacrifice
17:9 若不带到会幕门口献给耶和华，那人必从民中剪除。
And does not bring it to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting to sacrifice it to Jehovah, that man shall be cut off from his people.
120
17:10 凡以色列家中的人，或是寄居在他们中间的外人，若吃了什么血，我必向那吃血的人变脸，把他从民中剪除。
And anyone of the house of Israel or of the sojourners who sojourn among them, who eats any blood, I will set My face against that person who eats blood and
cut him off from among his people.
17:11 因为活物的生命是在血中；我已经把血赐给你们，可以在坛上为你们的生命遮罪；因血里有生命，所以能遮罪。
For the life of the flesh is in the blood; and I have given it to you to make expiation for your souls on the altar, for it is the blood, by reason of the life, that makes
expiation.
17:12 因此，我对以色列人说，你们中间什么人都不可吃血；寄居在你们中间的外人也不可吃血。
Therefore I said to the children of Israel, No person among you shall eat blood, nor shall any sojourner who sojourns among you eat blood.
17:13 凡以色列人，或是寄居在他们中间的外人，若打猎得了可吃的禽兽，必放出它的血来，用土掩盖。
And anyone of the children of Israel or of the sojourners who sojourn among them, who in hunting takes an animal or bird that may be eaten, shall pour out its
blood and cover it with dust.
17:14 论到一切活物的生命，它的血就是它的生命；所以我对以色列人说，无论什么活物的血，你们都不可吃，因为一切活物的生命是在血中；凡吃了血
的，必被剪除。
For as to the life of all flesh, its blood is its very life; therefore I have said to the children of Israel, You shall not eat the blood of any flesh, for the life of all flesh is its
blood; whoever eats it shall be cut off.
17:15 凡吃自死的或被野兽撕裂的，无论是本地人，是寄居的，都要洗衣服，用水洗澡，并要不洁净到晚上，然后才洁净了。
And every person who eats that which dies of itself or is torn by beasts, whether he is a native or a sojourner, shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be
unclean until the evening; then he shall be clean.
17:16 他若不洗衣服，也不洗身，就必担当他的罪孽。
But if he does not wash them or bathe his body, then he shall bear his iniquity.
利未记 Leviticus 第 18 章
18:1 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
18:2 你要对以色列人说，我是耶和华你们的神。
Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, I am Jehovah your God.
18:3 你们从前住的埃及地，那里的人所作的，你们不可照样作；我要领你们去的迦南地，那里的人所作的，你们也不可照样作，也不可照他们的风俗行。
You shall not do as they do in the land of Egypt, in which you dwelt; and you shall not do as they do in the land of Canaan, where I am bringing you, nor shall you
walk in their statutes.
18:4 你们要遵行我的典章，谨守我的律例，按此而行；我是耶和华你们的神。
You shall observe My ordinances, and you shall keep My statutes to walk in them; I am Jehovah your God.
18:5 所以，你们要谨守我的律例和典章；人若遵行这些，就必因这些活着；我是耶和华。
So you shall keep My statutes and My ordinances, by which, if a man does them, he will live; I am Jehovah.
18:6 你们什么人都不可亲近骨肉之亲，露他们的下体；我是耶和华。
None of you shall approach to any of his close relatives to uncover their nakedness; I am Jehovah.
18:7 不可露你母亲的下体，这本是你父亲的下体；她是你的母亲，不可露她的下体。
The nakedness of your father, that is, the nakedness of your mother, you shall not uncover. She is your mother; you shall not uncover her nakedness.
18:8 不可露你父亲妻子的下体，这本是你父亲的下体。
The nakedness of your father's wife you shall not uncover; it is your father's nakedness.
18:9 你的姊妹，不拘是异母同父的，或异父同母的，无论是生在家的或生在外的，都不可露她们的下体。
The nakedness of your sister, your father's daughter, or your mother's daughter, whether born at home or born abroad, their nakedness you shall not uncover.
18:10 不可露你孙女或外孙女的下体，因为她们的下体就是你自己的下体。
The nakedness of your son's daughter or of your daughter's daughter, their nakedness you shall not uncover; for their nakedness is your own nakedness.
18:11 你父亲妻子从你父亲生的女儿本是你的姊妹，不可露她的下体。
The nakedness of your father's wife's daughter, begotten of your father-she is your sister-you shall not uncover her nakedness.
18:12 不可露你姑母的下体；她是你父亲的骨肉之亲。
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's sister; she is your father's flesh.
18:13 不可露你姨母的下体；她是你母亲的骨肉之亲。
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister, for she is your mother's flesh.
18:14 不可亲近你伯叔的妻子，这乃是露你伯叔的下体；她是你的伯叔母。
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's brother, that is, you shall not approach his wife; she is your aunt.
18:15 不可露你儿媳的下体；她是你儿子的妻子，不可露她的下体。
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law; she is your son's wife; you shall not uncover her nakedness.
18:16 不可露你兄弟妻子的下体，这本是你兄弟的下体。
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother's wife; it is your brother's nakedness.
18:17 不可露了妇人的下体，又露她女儿的下体，也不可娶她孙女或外孙女，露她的下体；她们是骨肉之亲，这是大恶。
You shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her daughter; you shall not take her son's daughter or her daughter's daughter to uncover her nakedness;
they are her flesh; it is wickedness.
18:18 你妻子还活着的时候，不可另娶她的姊妹作对头，露她的下体。
And you shall not take a woman as wife in addition to her sister, as a rival to uncover her nakedness while she is alive.
18:19 女人在月经不洁净的时候，不可亲近她，露她的下体。
And you shall not approach to a woman to uncover her nakedness while she is in her menstrual uncleanness.
18:20 不可与同伴的妻子交合，因而玷污自己。
And you shall not have sexual relations with the wife of your fellow countryman to become defiled with her.
18:21 不可使你的儿女经火归与摩洛，因而亵渎你神的名；我是耶和华。
121
And you shall not give any of your offspring to pass through the fire to Molech, and so profane the name of your God; I am Jehovah.
18:22 不可与男人苟合，像与女人一样；这是可憎的。
You shall not lie with a male as one lies with a woman; it is an abomination.
18:23 不可与兽淫合，因而玷污自己；女人也不可站在兽前，与它淫合；这是逆性的事。
And you shall not lie with any beast to defile yourself with it; neither shall any woman stand before a beast, to lie down with it; it is confusion.
18:24 在这一切的事上，你们都不可玷污自己；因为我在你们面前所赶出的国民，在这一切的事上玷污了自己。
Do not defile yourselves in any of these things, for by all these the nations which I am casting out before you have defiled themselves.
18:25 因为那地受了玷污，所以我向那地追讨罪孽，那地也吐出其中的居民。
Because the land has become defiled, I visited its iniquity upon it, and the land vomited out its inhabitants.
18:26 故此，你们要谨守我的律例和典章；这一切可憎的事，无论是本地人，或是寄居在你们中间的外人，都不可行，
You therefore shall keep My statutes and My ordinances, and shall not do any of these abominations, neither the native nor the sojourner who sojourns among
you
18:27 (因为在你们以先居住那地的人，行了这一切可憎的事，地就受了玷污，)
(For the men of the land who were before you have done all these abominations, and the land has become defiled);
18:28 免得你们玷污那地的时候，地就把你们吐出，像吐出在你们以先的国民一样。
That the land does not vomit you out when you defile it, as it vomited out the nation which was before you.
18:29 无论什么人行了其中一件可憎的事，必从民中剪除。
For all who do any of these abominations, those persons who do them shall be cut off from among their people.
18:30 所以，你们要谨守我所吩咐的，免得你们随从那些可憎的风俗，就是在你们以先的人所行的，以致玷污了自己；我是耶和华你们的神。
Therefore you shall keep My charge, so that you do not commit any of these abominable customs which were committed before you, and you do not defile
yourselves by them; I am Jehovah your God.
利未记 Leviticus 第 19 章
19:1 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
19:2 你要对以色列全会众说，你们要圣别，因为我耶和华你们的神是圣别的。
Speak to all the assembly of the children of Israel, and say to them, You shall be holy, for I, Jehovah your God, am holy.
19:3 你们各人都当孝敬母亲和父亲，也要守我的安息日；我是耶和华你们的神。
Each one of you shall fear his mother and his father, and you shall keep My Sabbaths; I am Jehovah your God.
19:4 你们不可偏向偶像，也不可为自己铸造神像；我是耶和华你们的神。
Do not turn to idols or make for yourselves molten gods; I am Jehovah your God.
19:5 你们献平安祭给耶和华的时候，要献得可蒙悦纳。
And when you offer a sacrifice of peace offerings to Jehovah, you shall sacrifice it so that you may be accepted.
19:6 这祭物要在献的当天或第二天吃，若有剩到第三天的，就要用火焚烧。
It shall be eaten on the day you sacrifice it, or on the next day, but what remains until the third day shall be burned with fire.
19:7 第三天若再吃，这祭物就是可憎的，必不蒙悦纳。
But if it is eaten at all on the third day, it is an abomination; it will not be accepted.
19:8 凡吃的人必担当他的罪孽，因为他亵渎了耶和华的圣物；那人必从民中剪除。
And whoever eats it will bear his own iniquity, because he has profaned what is holy to Jehovah; and that person shall be cut off from his people.
19:9 你们收割地的庄稼时，不可割尽田角，也不可拾取收割时所遗落的。
And when you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not wholly reap the corners of your field, nor shall you gather the gleaning of your harvest.
19:10 不可摘尽葡萄园的果子，也不可拾取葡萄园所掉的果子，要留给穷人和寄居的；我是耶和华你们的神。
And you shall not glean your vineyard nor shall you gather the fallen fruit of your vineyard. You shall leave them for the poor and for the sojourner; I am Jehovah
your God.
19:11 你们不可偷盗，不可欺骗，也不可彼此说谎。
You shall not steal; neither shall you deceive nor deal falsely with one another.
19:12 不可指着我的名起假誓，亵渎你神的名；我是耶和华。
And you shall not swear falsely by My name, thus profaning the name of your God; I am Jehovah.
19:13 不可欺压你的邻舍，也不可抢夺他的财物。雇工的工价，不可在你那里过夜，留到早晨。
You shall not oppress your neighbor nor rob him. The wages of a hired servant shall not remain with you all night until the morning.
19:14 不可咒骂聋子，也不可将绊脚石放在瞎子面前，只要敬畏你的神；我是耶和华。
You shall not curse the deaf nor put a stumbling block before the blind, but you shall fear your God; I am Jehovah.
19:15 你们施行审判，不可行不义；不可偏护穷人，也不可重看有权势的人，只要按公义审判你的同伴。
You shall do no unrighteousness in judgment; you shall not respect the person of the poor nor honor the person of the great, but in righteousness you shall judge
your fellow countryman.
19:16 不可在民中往来搬弄是非，也不可与你的邻舍为敌，流他的血；我是耶和华。
You shall not go around as a slanderer among your people, nor shall you profit by the blood of your neighbor; I am Jehovah.
19:17 不可心里恨你的弟兄；总要指责你的同伴，免得因他担罪。
You shall not hate your brother in your heart; you shall surely reprove your fellow countryman, so that you do not bring sin upon yourself because of him.
19:18 不可报仇，也不可怀恨你本族的人，却要爱邻舍如同自己；我是耶和华。
You shall not take vengeance nor bear any grudge against the children of your people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself; I am Jehovah.
19:19 你们要守我的律例。不可叫你的牲畜与异类交配；不可用两样掺杂的种子种田，也不可用两样掺杂的料子作衣服穿在身上。
You shall keep My statutes. You shall not let your cattle breed with a different kind; you shall not sow your field with two kinds of seed, nor shall a garment made
of two kinds of material come upon you.
19:20 婢女许配了丈夫，还没有被赎或得释放，人若与她同寝交合，二人就要受审讯；不可把他们处死，因为婢女还没有得自由。
122
And if a man lies down and has sexual relations with a woman who is a slave designated for another man, but not at all redeemed nor given her freedom, there
shall be an inquiry; they shall not be put to death, because she was not freed.
19:21 那人要把赎愆祭，就是一只公绵羊牵到会幕门口、耶和华面前。
And he shall bring his trespass offering to Jehovah, to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting, a ram for a trespass offering.
19:22 祭司要为他所犯的罪，用赎愆祭的羊在耶和华面前为他遮罪，他所犯的罪就必蒙赦免。
And the priest shall make expiation for him before Jehovah with the ram of the trespass offering for his sin which he has committed; and the sin which he has
committed will be forgiven him.
19:23 你们进了那地，栽种各样结果子作食物的树，就要以所结的果子为不可收割的。三年之久，你们要以这些果子为不可收割的；这些是不可吃的。
And when you come into the land and plant all kinds of trees for food, then you shall count their fruit as unharvestable. Three years it shall be unharvestable to
you; it shall not be eaten.
19:24 但第四年所结的果子全要成为圣别，用以赞美耶和华。
But in the fourth year all their fruit shall be holy, for giving praise to Jehovah.
19:25 第五年，你们可以吃树上的果子，好叫树给你们的出产增多；我是耶和华你们的神。
And in the fifth year you may eat of their fruit, that their produce may increase for you; I am Jehovah your God.
19:26 你们不可吃带血的物；不可占卜，也不可观兆。
You shall not eat anything with blood, nor shall you practice divination or soothsaying.
19:27 头的周围不可剃，胡须的两边也不可损坏。
You shall not round the corners of your heads, nor shall you mar the edges of your beard.
19:28 不可为死人用刀划伤自己的身体，也不可在身上刺花纹；我是耶和华。
You shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor inscribe any marks upon you; I am Jehovah.
19:29 不可玷辱你的女儿，使她为娼妓，恐怕那地上的人落在淫乱中，那地就满了大恶。
Do not profane your daughter by making her a harlot, so that the land does not fall to harlotry, and the land become full of wickedness.
19:30 你们要谨守我的安息日，敬畏我的圣所；我是耶和华。
You shall keep My Sabbaths and revere My sanctuary; I am Jehovah.
19:31 不可偏向交鬼的和行巫术的；不可求问他们，以致被他们玷污了；我是耶和华你们的神。
Do not turn to mediums or to spiritists; do not seek after them to be defiled by them; I am Jehovah your God.
19:32 在白发的人面前，你要站起来，也要尊敬老人；又要敬畏你的神；我是耶和华。
You shall rise up before the grayheaded and honor the face of the old man. And you shall fear your God; I am Jehovah.
19:33 若有外人在你们的地寄居，你们不可欺负他。
And if a sojourner sojourns with you in your land, you shall not do him wrong.
19:34 在你们那里寄居的外人，你们要看他如本地人一样，并要爱他如同自己，因为你们在埃及地也作过寄居的；我是耶和华你们的神。
The sojourner who sojourns with you shall be to you as the native among you, and you shall love him as yourself; for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt; I
am Jehovah your God.
19:35 你们施行审判时，在尺寸、重量或容量上，不可行不义。
You shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in measures of length, of weight, or of quantity.
19:36 要用公道的天平、公道的法码、公道的伊法、公道的欣；我是耶和华你们的神，曾把你们从埃及地领出来。
You shall have just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin; I am Jehovah your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt.
19:37 你们要谨守遵行我一切的律例和典章；我是耶和华。
And you shall observe all My statutes and all My ordinances, and do them; I am Jehovah.
利未记 Leviticus 第 20 章
20:1 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
20:2 你还要对以色列人说，凡以色列人，或是在以色列中寄居的外人，把自己的儿女献给摩洛的，必要被处死；本地的人要用石头把他打死。
Moreover you shall say to the children of Israel, Anyone of the children of Israel or of the sojourners who sojourn in Israel who gives any of his offspring to Molech
shall surely be put to death; the people of the land shall stone him with stones.
20:3 我也要向那人变脸，把他从民中剪除，因为他把儿女献给摩洛，以致玷污我的圣所，亵渎我的圣名。
I will also set My face against that man and will cut him off from among his people because he has given one of his offspring to Molech, so as to defile My
sanctuary and profane My holy name.
20:4 那人把儿女献给摩洛，本地的人若佯为不见，不把他处死，
And if the people of the land ever hide their eyes from that man when he gives some of his offspring to Molech, and do not put him to death,
20:5 我就要向那人和他的家变脸，把他并一切随从他与摩洛行邪淫的人，都从民中剪除。
Then I will set My face against that man and against his family, and I will cut off from among their people him and all who prostitute themselves after him, to
prostitute themselves after Molech.
20:6 人偏向交鬼的和行巫术的，随从他们行邪淫，我要向那人变脸，把他从民中剪除。
And the person who turns to mediums and to spiritists to prostitute himself after them, I will even set My face against that person and will cut him off from among
his people.
20:7 所以你们要使自己分别为圣，成为圣别；因为我是耶和华你们的神。
Sanctify yourselves therefore, and be holy; for I am Jehovah your God.
20:8 你们要谨守遵行我的律例；我是使你们分别为圣的耶和华。
And you shall keep My statutes and do them; I am Jehovah who sanctifies you.
20:9 凡咒骂父母的，必要被处死；他咒骂了父母，流他血的罪要归到他身上。
If there is anyone who curses his father or his mother, he shall surely be put to death. He has cursed his father or his mother; his blood is upon him.
20:10 与别人的妻子行淫，就是与邻舍妻子行淫的，奸夫淫妇必被处死。
123
If there is a man who commits adultery with another man's wife, even one who commits adultery with his neighbor's wife, the adulterer and the adulteress shall
surely be put to death.
20:11 与父亲妻子行淫的，就是揭露了他父亲的下体，他们二人必要被处死，流他们血的罪要归到他们身上。
If there is a man who lies with his father's wife, he has uncovered his father's nakedness. Both of them shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon
them.
20:12 与儿媳同寝的，他们二人必要被处死；他们行了乱伦的事，流他们血的罪要归到他们身上。
If there is a man who lies with his daughter-in-law, both of them shall surely be put to death. They have brought about confusion; their blood shall be upon them.
20:13 人若与男人苟合，像与女人一样，他们二人行了可憎的事，必要被处死，流他们血的罪要归到他们身上。
If there is a man who lies with a male as with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination. They shall surely be put to death; their blood is upon
them.
20:14 人若娶妻，又娶其母，便是大恶，这三人要用火焚烧，使你们中间免去大恶。
If there is a man who takes a wife and her mother, it is wickedness. They shall be burnt with fire, both he and they, that there be no wickedness among you.
20:15 人若与兽淫合，必要被处死；你们也要把那兽杀死。
If there is a man who lies with a beast, he shall surely be put to death; and you shall slaughter the beast.
20:16 女人若与兽亲近，与它淫合，你要把那女人和那兽杀死；他们必要被处死，流他们血的罪要归到他们身上。
If there is a woman who approaches any beast to lie down with it, you shall kill the woman and the beast. They shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be
upon them.
20:17 人若娶他的姊妹，无论是异母同父的，或是异父同母的，彼此见了对方的下体，这是可耻的事；他们必在本民的眼前被剪除。他揭露了他姊妹的下
体，必担当自己的罪孽。
If there is a man who takes his sister, his father's daughter or his mother's daughter, and he sees her nakedness and she see his nakedness, it is a reproach, and
they shall be cut off in the sight of the children of their people. He has uncovered his sister's nakedness; he shall bear his iniquity.
20:18 妇人有月经，人若与她同寝，揭露了她的下体，就是显露了妇人的血源，妇人也揭露了自己的血源；二人必从民中剪除。
If there is a man who lies with a woman having her sickness, and he uncovers her nakedness, he has laid bare her flow, and she has uncovered the flow of her
blood; and both of them shall be cut off from among their people.
20:19 不可揭露姨母或姑母的下体，这是显露了骨肉之亲的下体；二人必担当自己的罪孽。
And you shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister nor of your father's sister, for he has made naked his flesh; they shall bear their iniquity.
20:20 人若与伯叔的妻子同寝，就是揭露了他伯叔的下体；二人要担当自己的罪，必无子女而死。
If there is a man who lies with his aunt, he has uncovered his uncle's nakedness. They shall bear their sin; they shall die childless.
20:21 人若娶他兄弟的妻子，这本是污秽的事；他是揭露了他兄弟的下体；二人必无子女。
If there is a man who takes his brother's wife, it is impurity. He has uncovered his brother's nakedness; they shall be childless.
20:22 所以你们要谨守遵行我一切的律例和典章，免得我领你们去住的那地把你们吐出。
You shall therefore keep all My statutes and all My ordinances, and do them, so that the land into which I am bringing you to dwell in does not vomit you out.
20:23 我在你们面前所逐出的国民，你们不可随从他们的风俗；因为他们行了这一切的事，所以我厌恶他们。
And you shall not walk in the customs of the nation, which I am about to send away before you. Because they did all these things, so I abhorred them.
20:24 但我对你们说过，你们要承受他们的地；我要把那流奶与蜜之地赐给你们为业。我是耶和华你们的神，是把你们从万民中分别出来的。
But I have said to you, You shall inherit their land, and I will give it to you to possess it, a land flowing with milk and honey. I am Jehovah your God, who has
separated you from the peoples.
20:25 所以你们要把洁净和不洁净的兽、不洁净和洁净的鸟，分别出来；不可因我给你们分别为不洁净的兽、或鸟、或什么在地上爬行的物，使自己成为
可憎的。
You shall therefore make a distinction between the clean beast and the unclean, and between the unclean bird and the clean, and you shall not make your souls
abominable by any beast or by any bird or by anything that creeps on the ground, which I have separated for you as unclean.
20:26 你们要归我为圣别，因为我耶和华是圣别的，并且把你们从万民中分别出来归我。
And you shall be holy to Me, because I Jehovah am holy, and I have set you apart from the peoples to be Mine.
20:27 交鬼的或行巫术的，无论男女，必要被处死。人必用石头把他们打死，流他们血的罪要归到他们身上。
If there is a man or a woman who is a medium or a spiritist, they shall surely be put to death. They shall stone them with stones; their blood shall be upon them.
利未记 Leviticus 第 21 章
21:1 耶和华对摩西说，你要对亚伦儿子们作祭司的说，祭司不可为民中的死人玷污自己，
And Jehovah said to Moses, Speak to the priests, the sons of Aaron, and say to them, No one shall defile himself for a dead person among his people,
21:2 除非为他骨肉至亲的母亲、父亲、儿子、女儿、兄弟，
Except for his flesh who is near to him, for his mother and for his father and for his son and for his daughter and for his brother
21:3 和未曾出嫁、仍是处女、与他至亲的姊妹，才可以玷污自己。
And for his virgin sister, who is near to him, who has had no husband; for her he may defile himself.
21:4 祭司既在民中为首领，就不可从俗玷辱自己。
He shall not defile himself, as a leader among his people, so as to profane himself.
21:5 不可使头光秃，不可剃除胡须的两边，也不可用刀划伤自己的身体。
They shall not make any baldness on their head or shave off the edges of their beard or make any cuttings in their flesh.
21:6 要归神为圣别，不可亵渎神的名；因为耶和华的火祭，就是神的食物，是他们献的，所以他们要成为圣别。
They shall be holy to their God, and they shall not profane the name of their God, for they present Jehovah's offerings by fire, the food of their God; therefore they
shall be holy.
21:7 不可娶妓女或被玷辱的女人为妻，也不可娶被休的妇人为妻，因为祭司是归神为圣别的。
They shall not take a woman who is a harlot or profaned, nor shall they take a woman put away from her husband; for the priest is holy to his God.
21:8 所以你要使他分别为圣，因为你神的食物是他献的；你要以他为圣别的，因为我是使你们分别为圣的耶和华，是圣别的。
You shall sanctify him therefore, for he presents the food of your God. He shall be holy to you, for I Jehovah, who sanctifies you, am holy.
21:9 祭司的女儿若行淫玷辱自己，就玷辱了父亲，必要用火焚烧。
124
And the daughter of any priest, if she profanes herself through prostitution, she profanes her father; she shall be burnt with fire.
21:10 在弟兄中作大祭司，头上倒了膏油，又承接了圣职，穿了圣衣的，不可蓬头散发，也不可撕裂衣服。
And he who is the high priest among his brothers, on whose head the anointing oil has been poured and who has filled his hands to put on the garments, shall
not let the hair of his head go loose nor tear his clothes.
21:11 不可挨近死人，甚至不可为父母玷污自己。
Neither shall he approach any dead person nor defile himself even for his father or for his mother.
21:12 不可出圣所，也不可亵渎神的圣所，因为神的膏油在他头上使他分别为圣；我是耶和华。
Neither shall he go out of the sanctuary nor profane the sanctuary of his God, for the consecration of the anointing oil of his God is upon him; I am Jehovah.
21:13 他要娶处女为妻。
And he shall take a wife in her virginity.
21:14 寡妇、或被休的妇人、或被玷辱为妓的女人，都不可娶；只可娶本民中的处女为妻。
A widow or a divorced woman or a profaned woman, a harlot, these he shall not take; but rather a virgin of his own people he shall take as wife.
21:15 不可在民中玷辱自己的儿女，因为我是使他分别为圣的耶和华。
And he shall not profane his seed among his people, for I am Jehovah who sanctifies him.
21:16 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
21:17 你要对亚伦说，你世世代代的后裔，凡有残疾的，都不可近前来献他神的食物。
Speak to Aaron, saying, No one of your seed throughout their generations who has a defect shall approach to present the food of his God.
21:18 因为凡有残疾的，无论是瞎眼的、瘸腿的、塌鼻子的、肢体畸形的、
For no one who has a defect shall approach: one who is blind or lame or with a disfigured nose or with an extended limb,
21:19 折脚折手的、
Or one who has a broken foot or a broken hand,
21:20 驼背的、矮矬的、眼睛有毛病的、长癣的、长疥的、或外肾损坏的，都不可近前来。
Or a hunchback or a dwarf, or one who has a defect in his eye or eczema or scale or crushed testicles.
21:21 祭司亚伦的后裔，凡有残疾的，都不可近前来，献耶和华的火祭。他有残疾，不可近前来献神的食物。
No one of the seed of Aaron the priest who has a defect shall come near to present Jehovah's offerings by fire. He has a defect; he shall not come near to
present the food of his God.
21:22 神的食物，无论是至圣的或圣的，他都可以吃；
He may eat the food of his God, both of the most holy and of the holy,
21:23 但不可进到幔子前，也不可就近坛前，因为他有残疾，免得亵渎我的圣所；我是使圣所分别为圣的耶和华。
But he shall not go in unto the veil or come near to the altar, because he has a defect, so that he does not profane My holy places; for I am Jehovah who
sanctifies them.
21:24 于是摩西告诉亚伦和亚伦的儿子们，并以色列众人。
So Moses spoke to Aaron and to his sons and to all the children of Israel.
利未记 Leviticus 第 22 章
22:1 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
22:2 你吩咐亚伦和他的儿子们，要谨慎对待以色列人所分别为圣归我的圣物，免得亵渎我的圣名；我是耶和华。
Tell Aaron and his sons to be careful with the holy things of the children of Israel, which they sanctify to Me, so that they do not profane My holy name; I am
Jehovah.
22:3 你要对他们说，你们世世代代的后裔中，凡身上有不洁，却接近以色列人所分别为圣、归耶和华之圣物的，那人必从我面前剪除；我是耶和华。
Say to them, If anyone among all your seed throughout your generations who approaches the holy things, which the children of Israel sanctify to Jehovah, and his
uncleanness is upon him, that person shall be cut off from before Me; I am Jehovah.
22:4 亚伦的后裔，凡患痲疯或有漏症的，不可吃圣物，直等他洁净了。无论谁触着那因死尸不洁净的物，或泄精的人，
No one of the seed of Aaron who is a leper or who has a discharge may eat of the holy things until he is clean. And whoever touches anything that is unclean
because of contact with a dead person, or a man whose seed of copulation has gone from him,
22:5 或触着什么使他不洁净的爬物，或触着使他不洁净的人，(不拘那人有什么不洁净，)
Or whoever touches any creeping thing by which he may be made unclean, or a man by whom he may be made unclean, whatever his uncleanness,
22:6 触着这些的人，必不洁净到晚上；若不用水洗身，就不可吃圣物。
The person who touches any such thing shall be unclean until the evening and shall not eat of the holy things unless he has bathed his body in water.
22:7 日落的时候，他就洁净了，然后可以吃圣物，因为这是他的食物。
And when the sun sets, he shall be clean; and afterward he may eat of the holy things, because it is his food.
22:8 自死的或被野兽撕裂的，他不可吃，免得因此成为不洁；我是耶和华。
He shall not eat an animal which has died or is torn by beasts to become unclean by it; I am Jehovah.
22:9 所以他们要守我所吩咐的，免得亵渎了圣物，因此担罪而死；我是使他们分别为圣的耶和华。
They shall therefore keep My charge, so that they do not bring sin upon themselves because of it and die by it because they profane it; I am Jehovah who
sanctifies them.
22:10 凡外人不可吃圣物；寄居在祭司家的，或是雇工，都不可吃圣物。
No stranger may eat any holy thing; a sojourner with a priest or a hired servant shall not eat any holy thing.
22:11 倘若祭司买的人，是他用银钱买的，那人可以吃圣物；生在他家的人，也可以吃他的食物。
But if a priest acquires anyone through a purchase with his money, that one may eat of it; and those who are born in his house may eat of his food.
22:12 祭司的女儿若嫁给外人，就不可吃举祭的圣物。
And if a priest's daughter is married to a stranger, she shall not eat of the heave offering of the holy things.
22:13 但祭司的女儿若成了寡妇，或是被休了，没有孩子，又归回父家，与她年轻时一样，就可以吃她父亲的食物；只是外人不可吃。
125
But if a priest's daughter becomes a widow or divorced and has no child, and she returns to her father's house as in her youth, she may eat of her father's food;
but no stranger may eat of it.
22:14 若有人误吃了圣物，要把圣物加上原数的五分之一，交给祭司。
And if a man eats the holy thing in ignorance, then he shall add one-fifth of its value to it and shall give the holy thing to the priest.
22:15 祭司不可亵渎以色列人所献给耶和华的圣物，
And they shall not profane the holy things of the children of Israel that they offer to Jehovah,
22:16 免得他们在吃圣物上，自取罪孽，有了罪过；因为我是使他们分别为圣的耶和华。
And so cause them to bear the iniquity that brings guilt when they eat their holy things; for I am Jehovah who sanctifies them.
22:17 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
22:18 你要对亚伦和他儿子们，并以色列众人说，以色列家中的人，或在以色列中寄居的，凡献供物，无论是为还愿，或是甘心献的，就是献给耶和华作
燔祭的，
Speak to Aaron and to his sons and to all the children of Israel, and say to them, When anyone of the house of Israel or of the sojourners in Israel who presents
his offering, whether it is any of their vows or any of their freewill offerings which they present to Jehovah for a burnt offering;
22:19 要将没有残疾的公牛、或公绵羊、或公山羊献上，使你们蒙悦纳。
It shall be a male without blemish from the cattle, from the sheep, or from the goats, for you to be accepted.
22:20 凡有残疾的，你们不可献上，因为这不蒙悦纳。
But whatever has a blemish, you shall not present, for it will not be acceptable for you.
22:21 凡从牛群或羊群中，将平安祭牲献给耶和华，为要还特许的愿，或是甘心献的，所献的必须是纯全无残疾的，才蒙悦纳。
And whoever presents a sacrifice of peace offerings to Jehovah to make a special vow or for a freewill offering, from the herd or from the flock, it shall be perfect
to be accepted; there shall be no blemish in it.
22:22 瞎眼的、折伤的、残废的、有瘤子的、长癣的、长疥的，都不可献给耶和华，也不可在坛上作为火祭献给耶和华。
You shall not present these to Jehovah: anything blind or injured or maimed or having a suppuration or eczema or scale; nor shall you make an offering by fire
from them on the altar to Jehovah.
22:23 无论是牛或羊，若肢体有余或缺少的，只可作甘心祭献上；若用以还愿，就不蒙悦纳。
An ox or a lamb that has anything superfluous or lacking in its parts, that you may offer for a freewill offering; but it shall not be accepted for a vow.
22:24 凡外肾损伤、或压碎、或破裂、或骟了的，不可献给耶和华；在你们的地上不可这样行。
And anything with its testicles bruised or crushed or broken or cut, you shall not present to Jehovah; you shall not do this in your land.
22:25 这类的物，你们一样也不可从外人的手接受，作你们神的食物献上；因为这些都有损坏，有残疾，必不蒙悦纳。
And from the hand of a foreigner you shall not present the food of your God from any of these, because their corruption is in them. There is a blemish in them;
they shall not be accepted for you.
22:26 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
22:27 才生的公牛、绵羊、或山羊，七天当跟着母；从第八天以后，可以当供物蒙悦纳，作为献给耶和华的火祭。
When an ox or a sheep or a goat is born, it shall remain seven days with its mother; and from the eighth day and onward it shall be accepted for the offering of
an offering by fire to Jehovah.
22:28 无论是母牛或母羊，不可同日宰母和子。
But whether cow or sheep, you shall not slaughter both it and its young on one day.
22:29 你们献感谢祭给耶和华，要献得可蒙悦纳。
And when you sacrifice a sacrifice of thanksgiving to Jehovah, you shall sacrifice it so that you may be accepted.
22:30 要当天吃，一点不可留到早晨；我是耶和华。
On the same day it shall be eaten; you shall leave none of it until the morning; I am Jehovah.
22:31 你们要谨守遵行我的诫命；我是耶和华。
Therefore you shall keep My commandments and do them; I am Jehovah.
22:32 你们不可亵渎我的圣名，我要在以色列人中被尊为圣；我是使你们分别为圣的耶和华，
And you shall not profane My holy name, but I will be sanctified among the children of Israel; I am Jehovah who sanctifies you,
22:33 把你们从埃及地领出来，作你们的神；我是耶和华。
Who brought you out of the land of Egypt to be your God; I am Jehovah.
利未记 Leviticus 第 23 章
23:1 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
23:2 你要对以色列人说，这些是我耶和华所定的节期，就是你们要宣告为圣会的节期。
Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, As to the appointed feasts of Jehovah, which you shall proclaim as holy convocations, these are My appointed
feasts.
23:3 六日要作工，第七日是完全安息的安息日，当有圣会。你们什么工都不可作；这是在你们一切的住处向耶和华守的安息日。
Six days work shall be done, but on the seventh day there is a Sabbath of complete rest, a holy convocation. You shall do no work; it is a Sabbath to Jehovah in all
your dwelling places.
23:4 耶和华所定的节期，就是你们到了所定的日期要宣告为圣会的，乃是这些：
These are the appointed feasts of Jehovah, even the holy convocations, which you shall proclaim at their appointed time:
23:5 正月十四日，黄昏的时候，是耶和华的逾越节。
In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at twilight, is Jehovah's Passover,
23:6 这月十五日是向耶和华守的无酵节；你们要吃无酵饼七日。
And on the fifteenth day of this month is the Feast of Unleavened Bread to Jehovah; seven days you shall eat unleavened bread.
23:7 第一日当有圣会，什么劳碌的工都不可作；
126
On the first day you shall have a holy convocation; you shall do no work of labor.
23:8 要将火祭献给耶和华七日。第七日当有圣会，什么劳碌的工都不可作。
But you shall present an offering by fire to Jehovah seven days. On the seventh day there shall be a holy convocation; you shall do no work of labor.
23:9 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
23:10 你要对以色列人说，你们进了我赐给你们的地，收割庄稼的时候，要将初熟的庄稼一捆带给祭司；
Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, When you come into the land which I am giving you, and reap its harvest, then you shall bring the sheaf of the
firstfruits of your harvest to the priest;
23:11 他要把这一捆在耶和华面前摇一摇，使你们蒙悦纳；祭司要在安息日的次日把这捆摇一摇。
And he shall wave the sheaf before Jehovah for your acceptance; on the day after the Sabbath the priest shall wave it.
23:12 摇这捆的日子，你们要把一岁、没有残疾的公绵羊羔献给耶和华为燔祭。
And on the day when you wave the sheaf, you shall offer a male lamb a year old without blemish as a burnt offering to Jehovah.
23:13 同献的素祭，是调油的细面一伊法的十分之二，作为怡爽香气的火祭，献给耶和华。同献的奠祭，是酒一欣的四分之一。
And its meal offering shall be two- tenths of an ephah of fine flour mingled with oil, an offering by fire to Jehovah for a satisfying fragrance. And its drink offering
shall be of wine, a fourth of a hin.
23:14 无论是饼，是烘的子粒，是新穗子，你们都不可吃，直等到把你们献给神的供物带来的那一天，才可以吃。这在你们一切的住处，要作世世代代永
远的定例。
And you shall eat no bread or parched grain or fresh ears until that same day, until you have brought the offering of your God. It shall be a perpetual statute
throughout your generations in all your dwelling places.
23:15 你们要从安息日的次日，献禾捆为摇祭的那日算起，满了七个安息日。
And you shall count for yourselves from the day after the Sabbath; from the day that you brought the sheaf of the wave offering there shall be seven complete
Sabbaths.
23:16 到第七个安息日的次日，共计五十天，再要将新素祭献给耶和华。
You shall count fifty days until the day after the seventh Sabbath; then you shall present a new meal offering to Jehovah.
23:17 要从你们的住处带来两个摇祭的饼，是用细面一伊法的十分之二加酵烤成的，当作初熟之物献给耶和华。
You shall bring out of your dwelling places two loaves as a wave offering; they shall be of two tenths of an ephah of fine flour, baked with leaven, as firstfruits to
Jehovah.
23:18 又要将一岁、没有残疾的羊羔七只、公牛犊一只、公绵羊两只，和饼一同奉上；这些与同献的素祭和奠祭要作为燔祭献给耶和华，就是作怡爽香气
的火祭献给耶和华。
And you shall present with the bread seven lambs, a year old without blemish, and one bull of the herd and two rams; they shall be a burnt offering to Jehovah
with their meal offering and their drink offerings, an offering by fire for a satisfying fragrance to Jehovah.
23:19 你们要献一只公山羊为赎罪祭，两只一岁的公绵羊羔为平安祭。
And you shall offer one male goat for a sin offering and two male lambs, a year old, for a sacrifice of peace offerings.
23:20 祭司要把这些和初熟之物作的饼，连同两只公绵羊羔，一同作摇祭，在耶和华面前摇一摇；这些是归耶和华为圣，给与祭司的。
And the priest shall wave them with the bread of the firstfruits as a wave offering before Jehovah with the two lambs; they shall be holy to Jehovah for the priest.
23:21 当这日，你们要宣告有圣会；什么劳碌的工都不可作。这在你们一切的住处，要作世世代代永远的定例。
And you shall make a proclamation on that same day; you shall have a holy convocation; you shall do no work of labor. It shall be a perpetual statute in all your
dwelling places throughout your generations.
23:22 你们收割地的庄稼时，不可割尽田角，也不可拾取收割时所遗落的，要留给穷人和寄居的；我是耶和华你们的神。
And when you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not completely reap the corners of your field, nor shall you gather the gleaning of your harvest; you shall
leave them for the poor and for the sojourner; I am Jehovah your God.
23:23 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
23:24 你要对以色列人说，七月初一日，你们要有完全的安息，要吹角作记念，当有圣会。
Speak to the children of Israel, saying, In the seventh month, on the first day of the month, you shall have a complete rest, a memorial proclaimed by the blowing
of trumpets, a holy convocation.
23:25 什么劳碌的工都不可作，要将火祭献给耶和华。
You shall do no work of labor, but you shall present an offering by fire to Jehovah.
23:26 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
23:27 七月初十日是遮罪日，你们要有圣会，并要刻苦己心，也要将火祭献给耶和华。
And on the tenth day of this seventh month is the Day of Expiation; you shall have a holy convocation, and you shall afflict your souls and present an offering by
fire to Jehovah.
23:28 当这日，你们什么工都不可作，因为是遮罪日，要在耶和华你们的神面前为自己遮罪。
And you shall do no work on that same day, because it is a Day of Expiation, to make expiation on your behalf before Jehovah your God.
23:29 当这日，凡不刻苦自己的人，必从民中剪除。
If there is any person who does not afflict himself on that same day, he shall be cut off from his people.
23:30 凡这日作什么工的人，我必将他从民中除灭。
And if any person does any work on that same day, I will destroy that person from among his people.
23:31 你们什么工都不可作。这在你们一切的住处，要作世世代代永远的定例。
You shall do no work. It shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations in all your dwelling places.
23:32 你们要守这日为完全安息的安息日，并要刻苦己心。从这月初九日晚上到次日晚上，你们要守为安息日。
It shall be to you a Sabbath of complete rest, and you shall afflict your souls; on the ninth day of the month in the evening, from evening to evening, you shall keep
your Sabbath.
23:33 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
127
23:34 你要对以色列人说，这七月的十五日是住棚节，要向耶和华守这节七日。
Speak to the children of Israel, saying, On the fifteenth day of this seventh month is the Feast of Tabernacles for seven days to Jehovah.
23:35 第一日当有圣会，什么劳碌的工都不可作。
On the first day shall be a holy convocation; you shall do no work of labor.
23:36 七日之久要将火祭献给耶和华。第八日当有圣会，要将火祭献给耶和华。这是严肃会，什么劳碌的工都不可作。
Seven days you shall present an offering by fire to Jehovah. On the eighth day you shall have a holy convocation, and you shall present an offering by fire to
Jehovah. It is a solemn assembly; you shall do no work of labor.
23:37 这些是耶和华所定的节期，就是你们要宣告为圣会的；要将火祭，就是燔祭和素祭，平安祭，并奠祭，各按各日献给耶和华。
These are the appointed feasts of Jehovah, which you shall proclaim as holy convocations, to present an offering by fire to Jehovah, burnt offerings and meal
offerings, sacrifices of peace offerings, and drink offerings, each on its own day,
23:38 这是在耶和华的安息日以外，又在你们的礼物和所许的愿，并甘心献给耶和华的以外。
Besides the Sabbaths of Jehovah and besides your gifts and besides all your vows and besides all your freewill offerings which you give to Jehovah.
23:39 你们收藏了地的出产，从七月十五日起，要守耶和华的节七日；第一日要有完全的安息，第八日也要有完全的安息。
Then on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when you have gathered in the produce of the land, you shall keep the feast of Jehovah seven days; on the first
day shall be a complete rest, and on the eighth day shall be a complete rest.
23:40 第一日，你们要拿美好树上的果子、棕树的枝子、茂密树的枝条、与溪边的柳枝，在耶和华你们的神面前欢乐七日。
And on the first day you shall take for yourselves the product of stately trees, branches of palm trees and boughs of leafy trees and willows of the brook; and you
shall rejoice before Jehovah your God for seven days.
23:41 你们每年要向耶和华守这节七日。这要作你们世世代代永远的定例；你们要在七月间守这节。
And you shall keep it as a feast to Jehovah seven days in the year. It shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations; you shall keep it in the seventh
month.
23:42 你们要住在棚里七日；凡以色列的本地人都要住在棚里，
You shall dwell in booths seven days-all who are native in Israel shall dwell in booths -
23:43 好叫你们世世代代知道，我领以色列人出埃及地的时候曾使他们住在棚里；我是耶和华你们的神。
So that your descendants may know that I made the children of Israel to dwell in booths when I brought them out of the land of Egypt; I am Jehovah your God.
23:44 于是摩西将耶和华所定的节期告诉以色列人。
And Moses declared to the children of Israel the appointed feasts of Jehovah.
利未记 Leviticus 第 24 章
24:1 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
24:2 你要吩咐以色列人，把捣成的纯橄榄油拿来给你，为点灯用，使灯常常点着。
Command the children of Israel to bring to you pure oil of beaten olives for the light, to make the lamps burn continually.
24:3 在会幕中见证柜的幔子外，亚伦从晚上到早晨，要在耶和华面前常常整理这灯。这要作你们世世代代永远的定例。
Outside the veil of the testimony in the Tent of Meeting Aaron shall set it in order from evening to morning before Jehovah continually. It shall be a perpetual
statute throughout your generations.
24:4 他要在耶和华面前常常整理纯金灯台上的灯。
He shall keep the lamps in order on the pure lampstand before Jehovah continually.
24:5 你要取细面，烤成十二个饼，每个饼用细面一伊法的十分之二。
And you shall take fine flour and bake twelve cakes with it; two-tenths of an ephah shall be in each cake.
24:6 要把饼摆成两行，每行六个，放在耶和华面前纯金的桌子上；
And you shall set them in two rows, six in a row, on the pure gold table before Jehovah.
24:7 又要把纯乳香放在每行的饼上，作为记念，作为献给耶和华的火祭。
And you shall put pure frankincense on each row, so that it may be a memorial for the bread, an offering by fire to Jehovah.
24:8 每安息日要常常把饼摆列在耶和华面前；这要为以色列人作永远的约。
Every Sabbath day he shall set it in order before Jehovah continually; it is an everlasting covenant for the children of Israel.
24:9 这饼是要给亚伦和他子孙的，他们要在圣处吃，因为这在献给耶和华的火祭中是至圣的，要归与亚伦；这是永远的定例。
And it shall be for Aaron and his sons, and they shall eat it in a holy place, for it is most holy to him of Jehovah's offerings by fire, a perpetual statute.
24:10 有一个以色列妇人的儿子，他父亲是埃及人，一日出到以色列人中间；这以色列妇人的儿子和一个以色列人在营里争斗。
Now the son of an Israelite woman, who was also the son of an Egyptian man, went out among the children of Israel; and the son of the Israelite woman and a
certain Israelite struggled together in the camp.
24:11 这以色列妇人的儿子亵渎了圣名，并且咒诅，就有人把他送到摩西那里。(他母亲名叫示罗密，是但支派底伯利的女儿。)
And the son of the Israelite woman blasphemed the Name and cursed, and they brought him to Moses. (Now his mother's name was Shelomith, the daughter of
Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.)
24:12 他们把那人拘禁起来，要得耶和华所指示的话。
And they put him in custody so that it might be declared to them by the mouth of Jehovah.
24:13 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
24:14 把那咒诅圣名的人带到营外，叫听见的人都按手在他头上；全会众要用石头打死他。
Bring forth the one who has cursed outside the camp; and let all who heard him lay their hands on his head, and let all the assembly stone him.
24:15 你要对以色列人说，凡咒诅神的，必担当自己的罪。
And you shall speak to the children of Israel, saying, Anyone who curses his God shall bear his sin.
24:16 那亵渎耶和华名的，必要被处死；全会众总要用石头打死他。不管是寄居的或本地人，他亵渎耶和华名的时候，要被处死。
And the one who blasphemes the name of Jehovah shall surely be put to death; all the assembly shall surely stone him. The sojourner as well as the native,
when he blasphemes the Name, shall be put to death.
128
24:17 打死人的，必要被处死；
And anyone who takes the life of any human being shall surely be put to death.
24:18 打死牲畜的，必赔上牲畜，以命偿命。
And the one who takes the life of a beast shall make restitution for it, life for life.
24:19 人若使他同伴的身体有残疾，他怎样行，也要照样向他行：
And anyone who causes a blemish in his fellow countryman, as he has done, so shall it be done to him:
24:20 以伤还伤，以眼还眼，以牙还牙；他怎样使人有残疾，也要照样使他有残疾。
A fracture for a fracture, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth; just as he has caused a blemish in a man, so it will be inflicted on him.
24:21 杀死牲畜的，必赔上牲畜；杀死人的，要被处死。
And one who kills a beast shall make restitution for it, but one who kills a human being shall be put to death.
24:22 对寄居的和本地人，你们要一样的审断，因为我是耶和华你们的神。
You shall have one judgment for the sojourner as well as for the native, for I am Jehovah your God.
24:23 于是摩西告诉以色列人，他们就把那咒诅圣名的人带到营外，用石头打死。以色列人就照耶和华所吩咐摩西的行了。
And Moses spoke to the children of Israel, and they brought forth the one who had cursed outside the camp and stoned him with stones. So the children of Israel
did just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
利未记 Leviticus 第 25 章
25:1 耶和华在西乃山对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses on Mount Sinai, saying,
25:2 你要对以色列人说，你们进了我所赐你们那地的时候，地就要向耶和华守安息。
Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, When you come into the land which I am giving you, the land shall observe a Sabbath to Jehovah.
25:3 六年你要耕种田地，也要修理葡萄园，收藏地的出产。
Six years you shall sow your field, and six years you shall prune your vineyard and gather in its produce;
25:4 但在第七年，地要有完全安息的安息，就是向着耶和华的安息；你不可耕种田地，也不可修理葡萄园。
But in the seventh year the land shall have a Sabbath of complete rest, a Sabbath to Jehovah; you shall not sow your field nor prune your vineyard.
25:5 庄稼遗落自长的不可收割，没有修剪的葡萄树也不可摘取葡萄。这一年，地要有完全的安息。
The aftergrowth of your harvest you shall not reap, and the grapes of your unpruned vine you shall not gather; the land shall have a year of complete rest.
25:6 地在安息年出产的，要给你和你的仆人、婢女、雇工、并寄居的外人当食物，
And the Sabbath produce of the land shall be for food for you; for you and for your male slaves and for your female slaves, and for your hired servant and for
your stranger, who sojourns with you,
25:7 也要给你的牲畜和你地上的走兽当食物。
And for your cattle and for the animals that are in your land, shall all its produce be for food.
25:8 你要计算七个安息年，就是七个七年；这就使你有了七个安息年的时期，共四十九年。
And you shall count off seven Sabbaths of years to yourself, seven times seven years, so that you have the time of seven Sabbaths of years, that is, forty-nine
years.
25:9 当年七月初十日，你要大发角声；这是遮罪日，要在遍地发出角声。
Then you shall sound aloud the ram's horn in the seventh month on the tenth day of the month; on the Day of Expiation you shall sound the trumpet throughout
all your land.
25:10 你们要将第五十年分别为圣，在遍地向一切的居民宣告自由。这年必为你们的禧年，各人要归回自己的产业，归回本家。
And you shall sanctify the fiftieth year, and proclaim liberty throughout the land to all its inhabitants. It shall be a jubilee for you; and each of you shall return to his
possession, and each of you shall return to his family.
25:11 第五十年要作为你们的禧年；这年不可耕种，地中自长的不可收割，没有修剪的葡萄树也不可摘取葡萄。
The fiftieth year shall be a jubilee for you; you shall not sow nor reap its aftergrowth nor gather from its unpruned vines.
25:12 因为这是禧年，对你们是圣别的；你们可以吃田地的出产。
For it is a jubilee; it shall be holy to you. You shall eat its produce out of the field.
25:13 在这禧年，你们各人要归回自己的地业。
In this year of jubilee each one of you shall return to his possession.
25:14 你若卖什么给邻舍，或是从邻舍的手中买什么，彼此不可亏负。
And if you sell anything to your fellow countryman or buy from the hand of your fellow countryman, you shall not wrong one another.
25:15 你要按禧年以后的年数向邻舍买；他也要按余下收成的年数卖给你。
According to the number of years after the jubilee you shall buy from your fellow countryman; according to the number of crop years remaining he shall sell to
you.
25:16 年数若多，要照数加添买价；年数若少，要照数减去买价；因为他是照收成的年数卖给你。
According to the extent of the years you shall increase its price, and according to the fewness of the years you shall diminish its price; for it is the number of crop
years that he sells to you.
25:17 你们彼此不可亏负，只要敬畏你们的神；因为我是耶和华你们的神。
And you shall not wrong one another, but you shall fear your God; for I am Jehovah your God.
25:18 你们要遵行我的律例，谨守遵行我的典章，就可以在那地安然居住。
Thus you shall observe My statutes, and you shall keep My ordinances and observe them, so that you dwell securely in the land.
25:19 地必结果实，你们就要吃饱，在那地安然居住。
Then the land will yield its fruit, and you will eat to be satisfied and dwell securely in it.
25:20 你们若说，这第七年我们不耕种，也不收藏出产，吃什么呢？
And if you should say, What shall we eat the seventh year if we do not sow or gather in our produce?
25:21 我必在第六年命令我的福临到你们，地便生三年的出产。
Then I will command My blessing for you in the sixth year, and it shall bring forth produce for three years.
129
25:22 第八年，你们要耕种，也要吃陈粮；直等到第九年出产收进来的时候，你们还吃陈粮。
When you sow in the eighth year you will eat of the old produce until the ninth year; until its produce comes in, you shall eat the old produce.
25:23 地不可永远卖断，因为地是我的；你们在我面前是客旅，是寄居的。
And the land shall not be sold in perpetuity, because the land is Mine; for with Me you are strangers and sojourners.
25:24 在你们所得为业的全地，要准人将地赎回。
And in all the land of your possession you shall provide for the redemption of the land.
25:25 你的弟兄若渐渐穷乏，卖了几分地业，他至近的亲属就要作代赎的人，来把弟兄所卖的赎回。
If your brother becomes poor and sells some of his possession, then his redeemer, the nearest relative, shall come and redeem what his brother has sold.
25:26 若没有能给他赎回的，他自己渐渐富足，能够赎回，
But if a man does not have anyone to redeem it, but he obtains the means and finds it sufficient to redeem it,
25:27 就要算出卖地的年数，把余剩年数的价值付还那买主，自己便归回自己的地业。
Then let him calculate the years since its sale and restore the excess to the man to whom he sold it, and return to his possession.
25:28 倘若他没有力量，不能为自己得回，所卖的就仍要存在买主的手里，直到禧年；到了禧年，地业要出买主的手，他要归回自己的地业。
But if he has not found sufficient means to restore it for himself, then what he has sold shall remain in the hand of the one who has purchased it until the year of
jubilee; and in the jubilee it shall go out, and he shall return to his possession.
25:29 人若卖城内的住宅，卖了以后，一年之内可以赎回；他一整年有赎回权。
And if anyone sells a dwelling house in a walled city, then he may redeem it until the end of a year from its sale; for a full year he shall have the right of
redemption.
25:30 若在一整年之内不赎回，这城内的房屋就定准永归买主，世世代代为业；在禧年也不得出买主的手。
But if it is not redeemed within the space of a full year, then the house that is in the walled city shall pass in perpetuity to the one who purchased it throughout his
generations; it shall not go out in the jubilee.
25:31 但房屋在四围无城墙的村庄里，要看如乡下的田地一样，可以赎回；到了禧年，要出买主的手。
But the houses of the villages which have no wall all around them shall be reckoned with the fields of the country; they may be redeemed, and they shall go out
in the jubilee.
25:32 至于利未人所得为业的城邑，其中的房屋，利未人有永久的赎回权。
As for the cities of the Levites, that is, the houses of the cities of their possession, the Levites shall have the permanent right of redemption.
25:33 那可以从利未人赎回的，就是在利未人得为业之城内所卖的房屋，到了禧年要出买主的手，因为利未人城邑的房屋是他们在以色列人中的产业。
And what can be redeemed from the Levites, that is, a house that was sold in a city of his possession, shall go out in the jubilee, for the houses of the cities of the
Levites are their possession among the children of Israel.
25:34 只是他们各城郊野的田地不可卖，因为是他们永远的产业。
But the field of the suburbs of their cities may not be sold, for it is their perpetual possession.
25:35 你的弟兄在你那里若渐渐贫穷，手中缺乏，你就要帮补他，像对外人和寄居的一样，使他可以在你那里生活。
And if your brother becomes poor, and he is unable to support himself as he lives beside you, then you shall support him, like a stranger and a sojourner, so that
he may live beside you.
25:36 不可向他取利息或要他多还；只要敬畏你的神，使你的弟兄可以在你那里生活。
Do not take any interest or gain from him, but fear your God, so that your brother may live beside you.
25:37 你借银钱给他，不可向他取利息；借粮食给他，也不可要他多还。
You shall not give him your money at interest nor give him your food for gain.
25:38 我是耶和华你们的神，曾领你们从埃及地出来，为要把迦南地赐给你们，要作你们的神。
I am Jehovah your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt to give you the land of Canaan, to be your God.
25:39 你的弟兄若在你那里渐渐穷乏，将自己卖给你，不可叫他作奴仆服事你。
And if your brother beside you becomes poor, and he sells himself to you, you shall not make him serve as a slave.
25:40 他在你那里要像雇工和寄居的一样，服事你直到禧年。
He shall be beside you as a hired servant, as a sojourner; he shall serve beside you until the year of jubilee.
25:41 那时他和他儿女要离开你，一同出去归回本家，到他祖宗的地业那里去。
Then he shall go out from you, he and his children with him, and return to his own family, and he shall return to the possession of his forefathers.
25:42 因为他们是我的仆人，是我从埃及地领出来的，不可卖为奴仆。
For they are My servants, whom I brought out of the land of Egypt; they shall not be sold as slaves are sold.
25:43 不可严严的辖管他，只要敬畏你的神。
You shall not rule over him with severity, but you shall fear your God.
25:44 至于你的奴仆、婢女，要从你四围的国中买。
And as for your male slaves and female slaves whom you may have, they shall come from the nations that are around you; from them you may buy male slaves
and female slaves.
25:45 那寄居在你们中间的外人和他们的家属，在你们地上所生的，你们也可以从其中买人；他们要作你们的产业。
Moreover from the children of the strangers who sojourn among you, from them you may buy, and from their families who are with you, which they have
begotten in your land; they also may be your possession.
25:46 你们要将他们遗留给你们的子孙为产业，使他们永远作奴仆；只是你们的弟兄以色列人，你们不可严严的辖管。
And you shall make them an inheritance for your children after you, to receive as a possession; you may use them as permanent slaves. But you shall not rule
over your brothers the children of Israel, one over another, with severity.
25:47 在你那里的外人或寄居的，若渐渐富足，你的弟兄在他那里却渐渐穷乏，将自己卖给那外人，或是寄居的，或是外人的家族，
And if a stranger or sojourner with you can afford it, and your brother beside him becomes poor and sells himself to the stranger or sojourner with you, or to the
descendants of the stranger's family;
25:48 卖了以后，可以将他赎回；无论是他的兄弟，
After he has sold himself, he may be redeemed; one of his brothers may redeem him,
25:49 或伯叔、伯叔的儿子、本家的近亲，都可以赎他；他自己若渐渐富足，也可以自赎。
Or his uncle or his uncle's son may redeem him, or any of his close relatives of his family may redeem him; or if he can afford it, he may redeem himself.
130
25:50 他要和买主计算，从卖自己的那年起，算到禧年；所卖的价值要照着年数的多少计算。他在买主那里的年日，要像雇工的年日一样计算。
And he shall reckon with the one who bought him from the year that he sold himself to him until the year of jubilee, and the price of his sale shall be according to
the number of years. The time he shall be with him shall be calculated like the time of a hired servant.
25:51 若还有许多年，就要按着年数从买价中偿还他的赎价。
If there are still many years, in proportion to them he shall give back the amount for his redemption out of the money that he was bought for.
25:52 若到禧年只余下几年，就要和买主计算，按着年数偿还他的赎价。
And if there are only a few years remaining until the year of jubilee, so he shall reckon with him. In proportion to his years he shall give back the amount for his
redemption.
25:53 他和买主同住，要像每年雇的工人，买主不可在你眼前严严的辖管他。
Like a servant hired year by year he shall be with him; he shall not rule with severity over him in your sight.
25:54 若不这样被赎，到了禧年，他就要和他的儿女一同出去。
And if he is not redeemed by these means, then he shall go out in the year of jubilee, he and his children with him.
25:55 因为以色列人是我的仆人，是我从埃及地领出来的；我是耶和华你们的神。
For the children of Israel are My servants; they are My servants whom I brought out of the land of Egypt; I am Jehovah your God.
利未记 Leviticus 第 26 章
26:1 你们不可为自己制造偶像，不可为自己立雕像或柱像，也不可在你们的地上安置石像，向它跪拜，因为我是耶和华你们的神。
You shall not make for yourselves idols, nor shall you raise up for yourselves a graven image or a pillar, nor shall you place a stone figure in your land to bow
down to it; for I am Jehovah your God.
26:2 你们要谨守我的安息日，敬畏我的圣所；我是耶和华。
You shall keep My Sabbaths and reverence My sanctuary; I am Jehovah.
26:3 你们若照着我的律例而行，谨守遵行我的诫命，
If you walk in My statutes and keep My commandments and do them,
26:4 我就要按时降雨给你们，地必有出产，田野的树必结果子。
Then I will give you your rains in their season, and the land will yield its produce, and the trees of the field will yield their fruit.
26:5 你们打谷要打到摘葡萄的时候，摘葡萄要摘到撒种的时候。你们要吃得饱足，在你们的地上安然居住。
Indeed your threshing will overtake the vintage, and the vintage will overtake the sowing time. Thus you will eat your bread until satisfaction and dwell securely in
your land.
26:6 我要赐平安在你们的地上；你们躺卧，无人惊吓。我要叫恶兽从你们的地上绝迹，刀剑也必不经过你们的地。
And I will give you peace in the land, so that you will lie down and no one will make you afraid; and I will cause wild beasts to cease out of the land, and no
sword will pass through your land.
26:7 你们要追赶仇敌，他们必在你们面前倒于刀下。
And you will chase your enemies, and they will fall by the sword before you.
26:8 你们五个人要追赶一百人，一百人要追赶一万人；仇敌必在你们面前倒于刀下。
And five of you will chase a hundred, and a hundred of you will chase ten thousand; and your enemies will fall by the sword before you.
26:9 我要眷顾你们，使你们繁衍增多，也要坚定我与你们所立的约。
And I will turn My face toward you and make you fruitful and multiply you, and I will establish My covenant with you.
26:10 你们要吃久藏的陈粮，又要因新粮挪开陈粮。
And you will eat the old supply long stored and will have to clear out the old because of the new.
26:11 我要在你们中间立我的帐幕；我的心也不厌恶你们。
And I will set My tabernacle among you; and My soul will not abhor you.
26:12 我要在你们中间行走；我要作你们的神，你们要作我的子民。
And I will walk among you and be your God, and you will be My people.
26:13 我是耶和华你们的神，曾将你们从埃及地领出来，使你们不作埃及人的奴仆；我也折断了你们所负的轭，使你们挺身行走。
I am Jehovah your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt so that you should not be their slaves; and I have broken the bars of your yoke and made you
walk upright.
26:14 但你们若不听从我，不遵行这一切的诫命；
But if you will not listen to Me and will not do all these commandments,
26:15 若弃绝我的律例，心中厌恶我的典章，不遵行我一切的诫命，因而背弃我的约，
And if you reject My statutes, and if your soul abhors My ordinances so that you will not do all My commandments, so as to break My covenant;
26:16 我就要这样待你们：我必命定惊惶，就是痨病和热病，临到你们，叫你们眼目失明、精神消耗；你们也要徒然撒种，因为仇敌要吃你们所种的。
I also will do this to you: I will appoint sudden terror over you, even consumption and fever, that will cause the eyes to fail and make the soul to pine away; and
you will sow your seed in vain, for your enemies will eat it.
26:17 我要向你们变脸，你们就要败在仇敌面前；恨恶你们的，必辖管你们；无人追赶，你们却要逃跑。
And I will set My face against you, and you will be struck down before your enemies; and those who hate you will rule over you, and you will flee when no one
pursues you.
26:18 这些事之后，你们若还不听从我，我就要为你们的罪加七倍惩治你们。
And if after these things you will not listen to Me, then I will chastise you seven times more for your sins.
26:19 我必打碎你们因势力而有的骄傲，又要使你们的天如铁，你们的地如铜。
And I will break the pride of your power, and I will make your sky like iron and your earth like bronze,
26:20 你们要徒然劳力，因为你们的地必无出产，其上的树也不结果子。
And your strength will be spent in vain, for your land will not yield its produce, nor will the trees of the land yield their fruit.
26:21 你们行事若与我反对，不肯听从我，我就要按你们的罪加七倍降灾与你们。
And if you walk contrary to Me and will not listen to Me, I will bring seven times more plagues upon you according to your sins.
26:22 我也要打发野地的走兽到你们中间，夺去你们的儿女，吞灭你们的牲畜，使你们的人数稀少，道路荒凉。
131
And I will send wild animals among you, which will bereave you of your children and destroy your cattle and make you few in number, so that your roads will be
deserted.
26:23 你们因这些事若仍不受我改正，反倒行事与我反对，
And if by these things you will not be corrected by Me, but walk contrary to Me,
26:24 我就也要行事与你们反对；我要亲自因你们的罪加七倍击打你们。
Then I also will walk contrary to you; and I will strike you, I Myself, seven times for your sins.
26:25 我又要使刀剑临到你们，报复背约的仇；你们聚集在各城内，我要降瘟疫在你们中间，也必将你们交在仇敌的手中。
And I will bring a sword upon you that will execute the vengeance of the covenant; and when you gather together within your cities, I will send pestilence among
you, and you will be delivered into the hand of the enemy.
26:26 我要断绝你们所倚靠的粮食；那时，必有十个女人在一个炉子给你们烤饼，再按分量称给你们；你们要吃，也吃不饱。
When I cut off your supply of bread, ten women will bake your bread in one oven; and they will return your bread by weight, and you will eat and not be satisfied.
26:27 你们因这事若仍不听从我，反倒行事与我反对，
And if in spite of this you will not listen to Me, but walk contrary to Me,
26:28 我就要发烈怒，行事与你们反对；我要亲自因你们的罪加七倍惩治你们。
Then I will walk contrary to you in wrath; and I will chastise you, I Myself, seven times for your sins.
26:29 你们要吃儿子的肉，也要吃女儿的肉。
And you will eat the flesh of your sons, and the flesh of your daughters you will eat.
26:30 我要毁坏你们的邱坛，砍下你们祭日头的坛，把你们的尸首堆在你们偶像的身上；我的心也必厌恶你们。
And I will destroy your high places and cut down your altars to the sun and heap up your dead bodies upon the bodies of your idols, and My soul will abhor you.
26:31 我要使你们的城邑变成荒场，使你们的圣所变为荒凉；我也不闻你们怡爽的香气。
And I will make your cities a waste and will make your holy places desolate, and I will not smell the savor of your satisfying fragrances.
26:32 我要使地变为荒凉，住在其上的仇敌就因此诧异。
And I will make the land desolate, so that your enemies who dwell in it will be astonished at it.
26:33 我要把你们分散在列国中，我也要拔刀追赶你们；你们的地要变为荒凉，你们的城邑要变成荒场。
You however I will scatter among the nations, and I will unsheathe the sword after you; and your land will become a desolation, and your cities will become a
waste.
26:34 当你们在仇敌之地，你们的地荒凉的时候，地要享受安息；正在那时候，地要歇息，享受安息。
Then the land will enjoy its Sabbaths during all the days of desolation while you are in your enemies' land; then the land will rest and enjoy its Sabbaths.
26:35 地多时荒凉，就要多时歇息；地这样歇息，是你们住在其上的时候，在安息年所不能得的。
During all the days of desolation it will have the rest, which it did not have on your Sabbaths when you were dwelling upon it.
26:36 至于你们剩下的人，我要使他们在仇敌之地心惊胆怯；叶子被风吹的响声，要追赶他们；他们要逃避，像人逃避刀剑；无人追赶，却要跌倒。
And as for those who remain among you, I will send faintness into their heart in the lands of their enemies; and the sound of a driven leaf will put them to flight;
and they will flee as one flees from the sword; and they will fall though no one pursues.
26:37 无人追赶，他们要彼此撞跌，像在刀剑之前；你们在仇敌面前，必站立不住。
And they will stumble over one another, as if fleeing before the sword, though no one pursues; and you will not be able to stand before your enemies.
26:38 你们要在列国中灭亡；仇敌之地要吞吃你们。
And you will perish among the nations, and the land of your enemies will consume you.
26:39 你们剩下的人，必因自己的罪孽，在仇敌之地消灭；也必因祖宗的罪孽，与他们一同消灭。
And those who are remaining among you will rot away because of their iniquity in your enemies' lands; and also because of the iniquities of their fathers they will
rot away with them.
26:40 但他们若承认自己的罪孽和他们祖宗的罪孽，就是他们对我不忠实而干犯我的罪孽，并且承认自己行事与我反对，
But if they confess their iniquity and the iniquity of their fathers, in their unfaithfulness which they committed against Me, and also that they walked contrary to Me,
26:41 以致我也行事与他们反对，把他们带到仇敌之地；那时，他们未受割礼的心若谦卑了，他们也接受了罪孽的刑罚，
So that I also walked contrary to them and brought them into the land of their enemies; if then their uncircumcised heart is humbled, and then they accept the
punishment of their iniquity;
26:42 我就要记念我与雅各所立的约，也要记念我与以撒所立的约，并我与亚伯拉罕所立的约，且要记念这地。
Then I will remember My covenant with Jacob, and I will remember also My covenant with Isaac and also My covenant with Abraham, and I will remember the
land.
26:43 他们离弃这地，当他们不在而地荒凉的时候，地就要享受安息。并且他们要接受罪孽的刑罚，因为他们弃绝了我的典章，心中厌恶了我的律例。
For the land will be abandoned by them and will enjoy its Sabbaths while it is desolate without them. And they will accept the punishment of their iniquity
because, even because, they rejected My ordinances, and their soul abhorred My statutes.
26:44 虽是这样，他们在仇敌之地，我却不弃绝他们，也不厌恶他们，将他们尽行灭绝，也不背弃我与他们所立的约，因为我是耶和华他们的神。
And yet in spite of this, when they are in the land of their enemies, I will not reject them, nor will I abhor them so as to destroy them utterly and to break My
covenant with them; for I am Jehovah their God.
26:45 我却要为他们的缘故，记念我与他们先祖所立的约；他们的先祖是我在列国人眼前，从埃及地领出来的，为要作他们的神；我是耶和华。
But I will for their sakes remember the covenant with their ancestors, whom I brought out of the land of Egypt in the sight of the nations so that I might be their
God; I am Jehovah.
26:46 这些律例、典章和法度，是耶和华在西乃山借着摩西与以色列人立的。
These are the statutes and ordinances and laws which Jehovah made between Himself and the children of Israel at Mount Sinai through Moses.
利未记 Leviticus 第 27 章
27:1 耶和华对摩西说，
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
27:2 你要对以色列人说，人还特许的愿，所许的人要按你所估的价值归给耶和华。
Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, When a man makes a special vow, the persons shall be for Jehovah according to your valuation.
132
27:3 你估定的，从二十岁到六十岁的男人，要按圣所的舍客勒，估定价银五十舍客勒。
If your valuation is for the male from twenty years old even to sixty years old, then your valuation shall be fifty shekels of silver according to the shekel of the
sanctuary.
27:4 若是女人，你要估定三十舍客勒。
And if it is for a female, then your valuation shall be thirty shekels.
27:5 若是从五岁到二十岁，男子你要估定二十舍客勒，女子估定十舍客勒。
And if it is for one aged from five years old even to twenty years old, then your valuation for the male shall be twenty shekels and for the female ten shekels.
27:6 若是从一个月到五岁，男子你要估定价银五舍客勒，女子估定价银三舍客勒。
And if it is for one aged from a month old even to five years old, then your valuation for the male shall be five shekels of silver, and for the female your valuation
shall be three shekels of silver.
27:7 若是从六十岁以上，男人你要估定十五舍客勒，女人估定十舍客勒。
And if it is for one aged from sixty years old and upward, if it is for a male, then your valuation shall be fifteen shekels, and for the female ten shekels.
27:8 他若贫穷，出不起你所估定的价，就要叫他站在祭司面前，祭司要按许愿人的力量估定他的价。
But if it is for him who is poorer than your valuation, then he shall be set before the priest, and the priest shall value him; according to the means of the one who
vowed, the priest shall value him.
27:9 所许的若是牲畜，就是人献给耶和华为供物的，凡这一类献给耶和华的，都要成为圣别。
And if it is for an animal which may be presented to Jehovah as an offering, anything which may be given to Jehovah shall be holy.
27:10 人不可交换，也不可替换，或是好的换坏的，或是坏的换好的；若以牲畜替换牲畜，所许的与替换的都要成为圣别。
He may not exchange it or substitute it, either a good one for a bad one or a bad one for a good one; but if he does indeed substitute animal for animal, then
both it and its substitute shall be holy.
27:11 若牲畜是不洁净的，是不可献给耶和华为供物的，就要把牲畜安置在祭司面前，
And if his vow is for any unclean animal, which may not be presented as an offering to Jehovah, then he shall set the animal before the priest,
27:12 牲畜是好是坏，祭司要估定价值；你这祭司怎样估定，就要以怎样为是。
And the priest shall value it, whether it is good or bad; as you the priest value it, so it shall be.
27:13 他若一定要赎回，就要在你所估定的价值以外加上五分之一。
But if he ever redeems it, then he shall add one-fifth of it to your valuation.
27:14 人若奉献房屋，归耶和华为圣，房屋是好是坏，祭司要估定价值；祭司怎样估定，就要以怎样为定。
And if anyone consecrates his house to be holy to Jehovah, then the priest shall value it, whether it is good or bad; just as the priest values it, so it shall stand.
27:15 奉献房屋的人，若要赎回房屋，就要在你所估定的价银以外加上五分之一，房屋仍旧归他。
And if the one who consecrated it redeems his house, then he shall add one-fifth of the money of your valuation to it, and it shall become his.
27:16 人若将承受为业的几分田地奉献给耶和华，你要按这田地撒种多少估定价值，若撒大麦一贺梅珥，要估定价银五十舍客勒。
And if a man consecrates to Jehovah part of a field of his possession, then your valuation shall be according to the seed needed for it: a homer of barley seed at
fifty shekels of silver.
27:17 他若从禧年将田地奉献，就要以你所估定的价为定。
If he consecrates his field from the year of jubilee, according to your valuation it shall stand.
27:18 倘若他在禧年以后将田地奉献，祭司就要按着到下一个禧年所剩余的年数给他计算价银，将你所估定的价减低。
But if he consecrates his field after the jubilee, then the priest shall calculate the money for him according to the years which remain until the year of jubilee, and it
shall be deducted from your valuation.
27:19 将田地奉献的人，若一定要赎回田地，就要在你所估的价银以外加上五分之一，田地就定准归他。
And if the one who consecrated the field ever redeems it, then he shall add one-fifth of the money of your valuation to it, and it shall be assured to him.
27:20 他若不赎回那田地，或是将田地卖给别人，就再不能赎回了。
But if he does not redeem the field, or if he has sold the field to another man, it shall not be redeemed anymore.
27:21 但到了禧年，那田地出买主手的时候，就要归耶和华为圣，和永献的田地一样，要归祭司为业。
But the field, when it goes out in the jubilee, shall be holy to Jehovah as a devoted field; its possession shall be the priest's.
27:22 他若将所买的一块田地，不是承受为业的，奉献给耶和华，
And if he consecrates to Jehovah a field which he has bought that is not part of the field of his possession,
27:23 祭司就要将你所估的价值给他计算到禧年。当日，他要以你所估的价银为圣，归给耶和华。
Then the priest shall calculate for him the amount of your valuation until the year of jubilee, and on that day he shall give your valuation as holy to Jehovah.
27:24 到了禧年，那田地要归给卖主，就是那承受为业的原主。
In the year of jubilee the field shall return to the one from whom he bought it, even to the one to whom the possession of the land belongs.
27:25 凡你所估定的价银都要按着圣所的舍客勒，一舍客勒是二十季拉。
And every valuation of yours shall be according to the shekel of the sanctuary: The shekel shall be twenty gerahs.
27:26 惟独牲畜中头生的，无论是牛是羊，既属于耶和华，谁也不可再奉献，因为这是耶和华的。
However no one shall consecrate the firstborn among animals, which as a firstborn belongs to Jehovah; whether it is an ox or a sheep, it is Jehovah's.
27:27 若是从不洁净的牲畜中奉献的，就要按你所估定的价值加上五分之一赎回；若不赎回，就要按你所估定的价值卖了。
But if it is consecrated from among unclean animals, then he shall ransom it according to your valuation and shall add to it one-fifth of it. And if it is not
redeemed, then it shall be sold according to your valuation.
27:28 但一切永献的，就是人从他所有永献给耶和华的，无论是人，是牲畜，或是他承受为业的田地，都不可卖，也不可赎。凡永献的，都是归耶和华为
至圣的。
Nevertheless anything which someone devotes to Jehovah out of all that he has, whether a human or an animal or a field of his possession, it shall not be sold or
redeemed. Every devoted thing is most holy to Jehovah.
27:29 凡从人中当灭的都不可赎，必要被处死。
No human beings who are devoted to destruction shall be ransomed; they shall surely be put to death.
27:30 地上所有的，无论是地上的种子或树上的果子，十分之一是耶和华的，是归耶和华为圣的。
And all the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land or of the fruit of the tree, is Jehovah's; it is holy to Jehovah.
27:31 人若要赎这十分之一的什么物，就要加上五分之一。
133
And if anyone redeems any of his tithe, he shall add to it one-fifth of it.
27:32 凡牛群羊群中，一切从牧人杖下经过的，每第十只，就是十分之一，要归耶和华为圣。
And all the tithe of the herd or the flock, whatever passes under the shepherd's rod, the tenth one shall be holy to Jehovah.
27:33 不可问是好是坏，也不可替换；若一定要替换，替换的与本来的都要成为圣别，不可赎回。
He shall not search whether it is good or bad, nor shall he substitute it; but if he does substitute it at all, then both it and that for which it is substituted shall be
holy; it shall not be redeemed.
27:34 这些就是耶和华在西乃山，为以色列人所吩咐摩西的命令。
These are the commandments which Jehovah commanded Moses on Mount Sinai for the children of Israel.