39. 玛拉基书 Malachi
玛拉基书 Malachi 第 1 章
1:1 耶和华藉玛拉基传给以色列之话语的默示。
The burden of the word of Jehovah to Israel through Malachi.
1:2 耶和华说，我爱了你们；你们却说，你在何事上爱了我们呢？耶和华说，以扫不是雅各的哥哥么？我却爱雅各，
I have loved you, says Jehovah; but you say, How have You loved us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother, declares Jehovah? Yet I loved Jacob;
1:3 恶以扫，使他的山岭荒凉，把他的地业交给旷野的野狗。
But Esau I hated, and I made his mountains a desolation, and gave his inheritance to the jackals of the wilderness.
1:4 以东人说，我们现在虽被击倒，却要重建荒废之处；万军之耶和华如此说，任他们建造，我必拆毁；他们必称为罪恶之境，为耶和华永远恼怒之民。
Though Edom says, We are beaten down, but we will return and build up the waste places; thus says Jehovah of hosts, They will build up, but I will throw down;
and they will be called the territory of wickedness and the people with whom Jehovah is indignant forever.
1:5 你们必亲眼看见，也必亲自说，耶和华在以色列境地之上，被尊为大。
And your eyes will see it, and you yourselves will say, Jehovah is magnified over the territory of Israel.
1:6 藐视我名的祭司阿，万军之耶和华对你们说，儿子尊敬父亲，仆人敬畏主人。我既为父亲，我该受的尊敬在那里呢？我既为主人，我该得的敬畏在那
里呢？你们却说，我们在何事上藐视你的名呢？
A son honors his father, and a servant his lord. Therefore if I am a Father, where is My honor? And if I am the Lord, where is My fear? says Jehovah of hosts to you,
O priests who despise My name. But you say, How have we despised Your name?
1:7 你们将污秽的食物献在我的坛上，且说，我们在何事上污秽你呢？你们竟说，耶和华的桌子是可藐视的。
You offer defiled food upon My altar. And you say, How have we defiled You? In that you say, The table of Jehovah is despicable.
1:8 你们将瞎眼的献为祭物，这不是恶么？将瘸腿的、有病的献上，这不是恶么？你且把这些献给你的省长。他岂喜悦你，岂能看你的情面么？这是万军
之耶和华说的。
And when you offer what is blind as a sacrifice, is it not evil? And when you offer what is lame and sick, is it not evil? Present it, if you will, to your governor. Will he
be pleased with you or accept your person? says Jehovah of hosts.
1:9 现在我劝你们恳求神的恩惠，祂好施恩与我们。这妄献的事，既是出于你们的手，祂岂能看你们的情面么？这是万军之耶和华说的。
And now, if you will, entreat the favor of God, that He may be gracious to us. This is what is from your hand. Will He accept any of your persons? says Jehovah of
hosts.
1:10 甚愿你们中间有一人关上殿门，免得你们徒然在我坛上烧火！万军之耶和华说，我不喜悦你们，也不从你们手中收纳供物。
Oh, that there were even someone among you who would shut the doors so that you would not kindle fire on My altar in vain! I have no delight in you, says
Jehovah of hosts; and I am not pleased with the sacrifice from your hand.
1:11 万军之耶和华说，从日出之地到日落之处，我的名在列国中必尊为大。在各处，人必向我的名烧香，献洁净的供物；因为我的名在列国中必尊为大。
For from the rising of the sun even unto its setting My name will be great among the nations. And in every place incense will be offered to My name as well as a
pure sacrifice, for My name will be great among the nations, says Jehovah of hosts.
1:12 你们却亵渎我的名，说，耶和华的桌子是污秽的，其上的食物是可藐视的。
But you profane it by saying, The table of the Lord is defiled, and the produce on it, its food, is despicable.
1:13 你们又说，这些事何等烦琐！并嗤之以鼻。这是万军之耶和华说的。你们把抢来的、瘸腿的、有病的，拿来献上为供物；我岂能从你们手中收纳这些
呢？这是耶和华说的。
And you say, Ah, how tiresome it is! and sniff at it in contempt, says Jehovah of hosts. Then you bring what has been stolen and what is lame and what is sick,
and you offer it as a sacrifice. Should I be pleased with what comes from your hand? says Jehovah.
1:14 行诡诈的在群中有公羊，他许愿却用有残疾的献给主，这人是可咒诅的；因为我是大君王，我的名在列国中是可畏的；这是万军之耶和华说的。
Rather, cursed be the deceiver who has in his flock a male, and when he makes a vow, he offers what is blemished to the Lord; for I am a great King, says
Jehovah of hosts, and My name is feared among the nations.
玛拉基书 Malachi 第 2 章
2:1 众祭司阿，现今这诫命是给你们的。
And now this commandment is for you, O priests.
2:2 万军之耶和华说，你们若不听从，也不放在心上，将荣耀归与我的名，我就要差咒诅到你们中间，咒诅你们的福分；因你们不把诫命放在心上，我已
经咒诅这些福分了。
If you will not hear and take it to heart to give glory to My name, says Jehovah of hosts, I will send the curse among you, and I will curse your blessings; indeed I
have cursed them already because you have not taken it to heart.
2:3 我必斥责你们的种子，又把粪，就是你们节期祭牲的粪，泼在你们的脸上；人要把你们与粪一同除掉。
I will rebuke your seed and spread dung upon your faces, the dung of your feasts; and they will take you away with it.
2:4 你们就知道我传这诫命给你们，使我与利未所立的约，可以常存；这是万军之耶和华说的。
And you will know that I have sent this commandment to you, that My covenant may remain with Levi, says Jehovah of hosts.
2:5 我曾与他立生命和平安的约；我将这两样赐给他，使他心存敬畏；他就敬畏我，惧怕我的名。
My covenant was with him as life and peace; and I gave these to him that he might fear; and he did fear Me, and he did stand in awe of My name.
2:6 真理的律法在他口中，他嘴里没有不义；他在平安和正直里与我同行，使多人回头离开罪孽。
The law of truth was in his mouth, and no wrong was found in his lips; in peace and uprightness he walked with Me, and he turned many away from iniquity.
2:7 祭司的嘴当谨守知识，人也当由他口中寻求训诲，因为他是万军之耶和华的使者。
For the priest's lips should keep knowledge, and men should seek instruction from his mouth, for he is the mes- senger of Jehovah of hosts.
2:8 你们却偏离正道，使许多人在律法上跌倒；你们废弃我与利未所立的约；这是万军之耶和华说的。
But you have turned away from the way; you have caused many to stumble at the law; you have corrupted the covenant of Levi, says Jehovah of hosts.
2:9 所以我也使你们在众人面前被藐视，看为下贱，因你们不遵行我的道路，竟在律法上偏袒人。
Therefore I also have made you despicable and base before all the people to the same extent that you have not kept My ways but have been respecters of
persons in the law.
2:10 我们岂不都有一位父么？岂不是一位神所造的么？我们各人怎么以诡诈待弟兄，渎犯了神与我们列祖所立的约呢？
Have we not all one Father? Has not one God created us? Why are we treacherous, each one to his brother, thus profaning the covenant of our fathers?
2:11 犹大人行事诡诈，并且在以色列和耶路撒冷中，行了一件可憎的事；因为犹大人亵渎耶和华所爱的圣所，娶事奉外邦神的女子为妻。
Judah has been treacherous, and an abomination has been done in Israel and in Jerusalem; for Judah has profaned the sanctuary of Jehovah, which He loves,
and has married the daughter of a foreign god.
2:12 凡行这事的，无论是叫醒的、答应的、或是献供物给万军之耶和华的，耶和华也必从雅各的帐棚中剪除他。
As regards the man who does this, Jehovah will cut off from the tents of Jacob him who wakes and him who answers and him who offers a sacrifice to Jehovah
of hosts.
2:13 你们又行了一件这样的事，使眼泪，使哭泣和叹息遮盖耶和华的祭坛，以致耶和华不再垂看那供物，也不乐意从你们手中收纳。
And this second thing you do: You cover the altar of Jehovah with tears, with weeping and sighing, so that He no longer regards the sacrifice or receives it with
pleasure from your hand.
2:14 你们还说，这是为什么呢？因耶和华在你和你幼年所娶的妻子中间作证人；她虽是你的伴侣，又是你盟约的妻子，你却以诡诈待她。
Yet you say, For what reason? Because Jehovah has been the witness between you and the wife of your youth, to whom you have been treacherous; yet she is
your companion and your wife of covenant.
2:15 然而神岂不是使二人成为一么？祂灵的余裔是属祂的。为何成为一呢？乃是要得着属神的后裔。所以当谨守你们的灵，谁也不可以诡诈待自己幼年所
娶的妻子。
But did He not make them one? And the remnant of the Spirit was His. And why the one? He sought the seed of God. Take heed then to your spirit, and let no one
be treacherous to the wife of his youth.
2:16 耶和华以色列的神说，休妻是我所恨恶的，休妻的人是以强暴行事；所以当谨守你们的灵，不可行诡诈；这是万军之耶和华说的。
For I hate divorce, says Jehovah the God of Israel; and he who does it behaves in violence, says Jehovah of hosts. Take heed then to your spirit, and do not be
treacherous.
2:17 你们用言语使耶和华厌烦；你们还说，我们在何事上使祂厌烦呢？因为你们说，凡行恶的，耶和华眼看为善，并且祂喜悦他们；或说，公平的神在那
里呢？
You have wearied Jehovah with your words; but you say, How have we wearied Him? By saying, Everyone who does evil is good in the sight of Jehovah, and He
delights in them; or, Where is the God of justice?
玛拉基书 Malachi 第 3 章
3:1 万军之耶和华说，我要差遣我的使者，在我前面预备道路；你们所寻求的主，必忽然来到祂的殿；立约的使者，就是你们所羡慕的，快要来到。
I am about to send My messenger, and he will clear the way before Me; and suddenly the Lord, whom you seek, will come to His temple. And the Angel of the
covenant, whom you desire, He will come, says Jehovah of hosts.
3:2 祂来的日子，谁能当得起呢？祂显现的时候，谁能立得住呢？因为祂如炼金之人的火，如漂布之人的碱。
And who will endure the day of His coming? And who will stand when He appears? For He is like a refiner's fire and like fullers' soap.
3:3 祂必坐下如炼净银子的，必洁净利未人，熬炼他们像金银一样，他们就必在公义中献供物给耶和华。
And He will sit as a refiner and a purifier of silver, and He will purify the sons of Levi and purge them like gold and like silver, and they will offer to Jehovah a
sacrifice in righteousness.
3:4 那时，犹大和耶路撒冷所献的供物，必蒙耶和华悦纳，仿佛古时之日，往昔之年。
And the sacrifice of Judah and of Jerusalem will be pleasing to Jehovah, as in the days of old and as in the former years.
3:5 万军之耶和华说，我必临近你们，施行审判；我必速速作见证，攻击行邪术的、犯奸淫的、起假誓的、亏负雇工之工价的、欺压寡妇孤儿的、屈枉寄
居的、和不敬畏我的。
And I will draw near to you for judgment; and I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers and against the adulterers and against those who swear falsely and
against those who oppress the hired worker for his hire, and the widow and the orphan, and those who turn the stranger aside, and who do not fear Me, says
Jehovah of hosts.
3:6 因我耶和华是不改变的；所以雅各的子孙哪，你们没有灭亡。
For I, Jehovah, do not change; therefore you, O sons of Jacob, are not consumed.
3:7 万军之耶和华说，从你们列祖的日子以来，你们常常偏离我的律例而不遵守。现在你们要转向我，我就转向你们；你们却问说，我们如何转向呢？
From the days of your fathers you have turned aside from My statutes and have not kept them. Return to Me, and I will return to you, says Jehovah of hosts. but
you say, How shall we return?
3:8 人岂可夺取神之物呢？你们竟夺取我的物，你们却说，我们在何事上夺取你的物呢？你们夺取了当纳的十分之一，和当献的供物。
Will a man rob God? Yet you have robbed Me. But you say, How have we robbed You? In tithes and offerings.
3:9 你们为咒诅所咒诅，但你们通国的人，仍夺取我的物。
With the curse you are cursed, yet you, even the whole nation, rob Me.
3:10 万军之耶和华说，你们要将当纳的十分之一，全然送入仓库，使我家有粮，以此试试我，是否为你们敞开天上的窗户，倾福与你们，甚至无处可容。
Bring the whole tithe to the storehouse that there may be food in My house; and prove Me, if you will, by this, says Jehovah of hosts, whether I will open to you
the windows of heaven and pour out blessing for you until there is no room for it.
3:11 万军之耶和华说，我必为你们斥责那吞吃者，他就不毁坏你们地的出产；你们田间的葡萄树在未熟之先，也不掉果子。
And I will rebuke the devourer for your sake, and for your sake he will not destroy the fruit of the ground; and for your sake the vine will not lose its fruit in the field,
says Jehovah of hosts.
3:12 万军之耶和华说，万国必称你们为有福的，因你们的地必成为喜乐之地。
And all the nations will call you blessed, for you will be a land of delight, says Jehovah of hosts.
3:13 耶和华说，你们用话语顶撞我；你们还说，我们用什么话顶撞了你呢？
Your words have been strongly against Me, says Jehovah; but you say, What have we spoken against You?
3:14 你们说，事奉神是徒然的；遵守神所吩咐的，在万军之耶和华面前哀痛而行，有什么益处呢？
You say, It is vain to serve God; and what profit is it that we have kept His charge and have walked mournfully before Jehovah of hosts?
3:15 如今我们称狂傲的人为有福；行恶的人非但得建立，并且虽然试探神，却得以逃罪。
And now we call the arrogant blessed; not only have those who act wickedly been built up, but they also try God and escape.
3:16 那时，敬畏耶和华的彼此谈论；耶和华侧耳而听，且有记念册在祂面前，记录那些敬畏耶和华并留意祂名的人。
Then those who feared Jehovah spoke to one another, each with his neighbor. And Jehovah gave heed and listened, and a book of remembrance was written
before Him of those who feared Jehovah and considered His name.
3:17 万军之耶和华说，在我所预备的日子，他们必属我，作我自己的珍宝；我必顾惜他们，如同人顾惜那服事自己的儿子。
And they will be Mine, says Jehovah of hosts, a personal treasure, in the day that I prepare; and I will spare them, as a man spares his son who serves him.
3:18 那时你们必归回，将义人和恶人，事奉神和不事奉神的人，分别出来。
And you will return and discern between him who is righteous and him who is wicked, between him who serves God and him who does not serve Him.
玛拉基书 Malachi 第 4 章
4:1 万军之耶和华说，那日子来到，如烧 的火炉；凡狂傲的和行恶的，必如碎秸；那要来之日必将他们烧尽，不给他们留下根和枝条。
For indeed the day comes, burning like a furnace, and all the proud ones and all the ones who act wickedly will be stubble; and the coming day will set them
ablaze, says Jehovah of hosts, so that it will not leave them root or branch.
4:2 但向你们敬畏我名的人，必有公义的日头升起，其翅膀有医治之能；你们必如圈里的肥牛犊出来跳跃。
But unto you who fear My name will the Sun of righteousness arise with healing in His wings, and you will go forth and leap about like well-fed calves.
4:3 你们必践踏恶人；因为在我所预备的日子，他们必如灰尘在你们脚掌之下；这是万军之耶和华说的。
And you will trample the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet in the day that I prepare, says Jehovah of hosts.
4:4 你们当记念我仆人摩西的律法，就是我在何烈山为以色列众人所吩咐他的律例和典章。
Remember the law of Moses My servant, which I commanded him in Horeb for all Israel, that is, the statutes and the ordinances.
4:5 看哪，耶和华大而可畏之日未到以前，我必差遣申言者以利亚到你们那里去。
I am about to send Elijah the prophet to you before the great and terrible day of Jehovah comes;
4:6 他必使父亲的心转向儿女，儿女的心转向父亲，免得我来，用咒诅击打这地。
And he will turn the heart of the fathers to the children and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the land with a curse.