41. 马可福音 Mark
马可福音 Mark 第 1 章
1:1 神的儿子，耶稣基督福音的开始，
The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God,
1:2 正如申言者以赛亚书上所记的：“看哪，我在你面前差遣我的使者，他要预备你的道路；
Even as it is written in Isaiah the prophet: "Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, who will prepare Your way,
1:3 在旷野有人声喊着：预备主的道路，修直祂的途径。”
A voice of one crying in the wilderness: Prepare the way of the Lord; make straight His paths.''
1:4 照这话，约翰出来了，在旷野施浸，传悔改的浸，使罪得赦。
John came baptizing in the wilderness and preaching a baptism of repentance for forgiveness of sins.
1:5 犹太全地和全耶路撒冷的人，都络绎的出去到约翰那里，承认着他们的罪，在约但河里受他的浸。
And all the region of Judea went out to him, and all the people of Jerusalem; and they were baptized by him in the Jordan River, as they confessed their sins.
1:6 约翰穿骆驼毛的衣服，腰束皮带，吃的是蝗虫野蜜。
And John was clothed in camel's hair and had a leather girdle around his loins, and he ate locusts and wild honey.
1:7 他传道说，有一位在我以后来的，能力比我更大，我就是弯腰给祂解鞋带也不配。
And he preached, saying, He who is stronger than I comes after me, the thong of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie.
1:8 我是将你们浸在水里，祂却要将你们浸在圣灵里。
I have baptized you in water, but He Himself will baptize you in the Holy Spirit.
1:9 当那些日子，耶稣从加利利的拿撒勒来，在约但河里受了约翰的浸。
And in those days Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized in the Jordan by John.
1:10 祂从水里上来，立即看见诸天裂开了，那灵仿佛鸽子，降到祂身上。
And immediately, coming up out of the water, He saw the heavens being parted and the Spirit as a dove descending upon Him.
1:11 又有声音从诸天之上出来，说，你是我的爱子，我喜悦你。
And a voice came out of the heavens: You are My Son, the Beloved; in You I have found My delight.
1:12 那灵随即把耶稣催到旷野去。
And immediately the Spirit thrust Him out into the wilderness.
1:13 祂在旷野四十天受撒但的试诱，并与野兽在一起，且有天使服事祂。
And He was in the wilderness forty days, being tempted by Satan; and He was with the wild animals, and the angels ministered to Him.
1:14 约翰下监以后，耶稣来到加利利，传扬神的福音，说，
And after John was delivered up, Jesus came into Galilee, proclaiming the gospel of God,
1:15 时期满了，神的国已经临近了。你们要悔改，相信福音。
And saying, The time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God has drawn near. Repent and believe in the gospel.
1:16 耶稣顺着加利利的海边走，看见西门和西门的兄弟安得烈，在海里撒网；他们本是渔夫。
And passing beside the Sea of Galilee, He saw Simon and Andrew, Simon's brother, casting a net in the sea, for they were fishermen.
1:17 耶稣对他们说，来跟从我，我要使你们成为得人的渔夫。
And Jesus said to them, Come after Me, and I will cause you to become fishers of men.
1:18 他们就立刻撇下网，跟从了祂。
And immediately leaving the nets, they followed Him.
1:19 祂稍往前走，又看见西庇太的儿子雅各，和雅各的兄弟约翰，在船上补网。
And going on a little, He saw James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, who also were in their boat, mending the nets.
1:20 祂随即呼召他们；他们就把父亲西庇太和雇工撇在船上，跟从耶稣去了。
And immediately He called them, and leaving their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants, they went after Him.
1:21 他们走到迦百农，耶稣随即在安息日进入会堂施教。
And they went into Capernaum, and immediately, on the Sabbath, He entered into the synagogue and taught.
1:22 众人都惊讶祂的教训，因为祂教训他们，像有权柄的人，不像经学家。
And they were astounded at His teaching, for He taught them as One having authority and not like the scribes.
1:23 即时在他们的会堂里，有一个人被污灵附着，喊叫说，
And immediately, there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, saying,
1:24 拿撒勒人耶稣，我们与你何干？你来除灭我们么？我知道你是谁，乃是神的圣者。
What have we to do with You, Jesus, Nazarene? Have You come to destroy us? I know who You are -- the Holy One of God.
1:25 耶稣便斥责他说，不要作声，从这人身上出来！
And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be quiet and come out of him!
1:26 污灵叫那人抽了一阵疯，大声喊叫，便从他身上出来了。
And the unclean spirit, convulsing him and shouting with a loud voice, came out of him.
1:27 众人都希奇，以致彼此讨论说，这是什么事？是个新鲜的教训！祂用权柄命令污灵，污灵就听从了祂。
And they were all amazed, so that they discussed among themselves, saying, What is this? A new teaching! With authority He orders even the unclean spirits,
and they obey Him.
1:28 耶稣的名声立刻传遍了加利利四周全境。
And immediately the report concerning Him went out everywhere into all the surrounding region of Galilee.
1:29 他们一出会堂，就同着雅各、约翰，进了西门和安得烈的家。
And immediately, going out of the synagogue, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew with James and John.
1:30 西门的岳母正发烧躺着，有人立刻向耶稣说到她。
And Simon's mother-in-law was lying down with a fever, and immediately they told Him about her.
1:31 耶稣上前拉着她的手，扶她起来，烧就退了，她就服事他们。
And He came to her and raised her up, holding her hand, and the fever left her, and she served them.
1:32 到了黄昏，日落的时候，有人带着一切患病的和被鬼附的，到耶稣跟前；
And when evening fell and the sun had set, they brought to Him all those who were ill and those who were demon possessed.
1:33 合城的人都聚集在门前。
And the whole city was gathered together at the door.
1:34 耶稣治好了许多患各样疾病的人，又赶出许多鬼，且不许鬼说话，因为鬼认识祂。
And He healed many who were ill with various diseases, and He cast out many demons and did not allow the demons to speak, because they knew Him.
1:35 清早，天还黑，耶稣起来，到旷野地方去，在那里祷告。
And rising very early in the morning, while it was still night, He went out and went away to a deserted place, and there He prayed.
1:36 西门和同伴去追寻祂，
And Simon and those with him hunted for Him,
1:37 找着了，就对祂说，众人都在找你。
And they found Him and said to Him, All are seeking You.
1:38 祂对他们说，我们可以往别处去，到邻近的村镇，我也好在那里传道，我原是为此出来的。
And He said to them, Let us go elsewhere into the nearby towns that I may preach there also, because for this purpose I came out.
1:39 祂就在加利利全地，进了他们的会堂，传道并赶鬼。
And He went preaching in their synagogues in the whole of Galilee and casting out the demons.
1:40 有一个患痲疯的来到耶稣跟前，恳求祂，跪下向祂说，你若肯，必能叫我洁净了。
And a leper came to Him, entreating Him and falling on his knees and saying to Him, If You are willing, You can cleanse me.
1:41 耶稣就动了慈心，伸手摸他，说，我肯，你洁净了吧。
And He was moved with compassion, and stretching out His hand, He touched him and said to him, I am willing; be cleansed!
1:42 痲疯立即离开他，他就洁净了。
And immediately the leprosy left him, and he was cleansed.
1:43 耶稣严严的嘱咐他，即刻打发他走，
And sternly charging him, immediately He thrust him out,
1:44 又对他说，你要当心，什么都不可告诉人，只要去把身体给祭司察看，又要为你得了洁净，献上摩西所规定的礼物，对他们作证据。
And said to him, See that you say nothing to anyone; but go, show yourself to the priest and offer for your cleansing the things which Moses commanded, for a
testimony to them.
1:45 但那人出去，广事宣扬，把这事传开了，以致耶稣不能再明明的进城，只好在外面旷野地方，人从各处都就了祂来。
But he went out and began to proclaim it much and to spread the matter abroad, so that He could no longer enter openly into a city, but He stayed outside in
deserted places. And they came to Him from everywhere.
马可福音 Mark 第 2 章
2:1 过了些日子，耶稣又进了迦百农。人听见祂在屋子里，
And He entered again into Capernaum after a few days, and it was heard that He was at home.
2:2 就有许多人聚集，以致门前再无空地，祂就对他们讲道。
And many were gathered together, so that there was no longer room, not even at the door. And He spoke to them the word.
2:3 有人带着一个瘫子来就耶稣，是由四个人抬来的。
And they came, bringing to Him a paralytic carried by four men.
2:4 因为人多，不能带到祂跟前，就把耶稣所在的地方，拆了屋顶，既拆通了，就把瘫子所躺卧的褥子缒下去。
And being unable to bring him to Him because of the crowd, they removed the roof where He was. And when they had dug through, they lowered the mat on
which the paralytic was lying.
2:5 耶稣见他们的信心，就对瘫子说，孩子，你的罪赦了。
And Jesus, seeing their faith, said to the paralytic, Child, your sins are forgiven.
2:6 但有几个经学家坐在那里，心里议论说，
But some of the scribes were sitting there and reasoning in their hearts,
2:7 这个人为什么这样说？祂说僭妄的话了。除了神一位以外，谁能赦罪？
Why is this man speaking this way? He is blaspheming! Who can forgive sins except One, God?
2:8 耶稣灵里即刻知道他们心里这样议论，就对他们说，你们心里为什么议论这些事？
And immediately Jesus, knowing fully in His spirit that they were reasoning this way within themselves, said to them, Why are you reasoning about these things in
your hearts?
2:9 对瘫子说，你的罪赦了，或说，起来，拿你的褥子行走，哪一样更容易？
Which is easier: to say to the paralytic, Your sins are forgiven, or to say, Rise and take up your mat and walk?
2:10 但要叫你们知道人子在地上有赦罪的权柄─就对瘫子说，
But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority to forgive sins on earth -- He said to the paralytic,
2:11 我吩咐你，起来，拿你的褥子回家去吧！
To you I say, Rise, take up your mat and go to your house.
2:12 那人就起来，立刻拿着褥子，当着众人面前出去了，以致众人都惊奇，荣耀神说，我们从来没有见过这样的事。
And he rose and immediately took up the mat and went out before them all, so that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, We have never seen
anything like this!
2:13 耶稣又出到海边去，群众都就了祂来，祂便教训他们。
And He went out again beside the sea. And all the crowd came to Him, and He taught them.
2:14 祂经过的时候，看见亚勒腓的儿子利未，坐在税关上，就对他说，跟从我。他就起来，跟从了耶稣。
And as He passed by, He saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at the tax office, and He said to him, Follow Me. And he rose and followed Him.
2:15 耶稣在利未家里坐席，有好些税吏和罪人，与耶稣和祂的门徒一同坐席；因为这样的人多，他们也跟随耶稣。
And as He reclined at table in his house, many tax collectors and sinners were reclining together with Jesus and His disciples, for there were many, and they
were following Him.
2:16 法利赛人中的经学家，看见祂和罪人并税吏一同吃饭，就对祂的门徒说，祂和税吏并罪人一同吃饭么？
And the scribes of the Pharisees, seeing that He ate with sinners and tax collectors, said to His disciples, Why does He eat with tax collectors and sinners?
2:17 耶稣听见，就对他们说，强健的人用不着医生，有病的人才用得着；我来本不是召义人，乃是召罪人。
And when Jesus heard this, He said to them, Those who are strong have no need of a physician, but those who are ill; I did not come to call the righteous, but
sinners.
2:18 约翰的门徒和法利赛人正在禁食；他们来对耶稣说，为什么约翰的门徒和法利赛人的门徒禁食，你的门徒倒不禁食？
And the disciples of John and the Pharisees were fasting. And they came and said to Him, Why do the disciples of John and the disciples of the Pharisees fast,
but Your disciples do not fast?
2:19 耶稣对他们说，新郎和伴友同在的时候，伴友岂能禁食？只要有新郎与他们同在，他们就不能禁食。
And Jesus said to them, The sons of the bridechamber cannot fast while the bridegroom is with them, can they? For as long a time as they have the bridegroom
with them they cannot fast.
2:20 但日子将到，新郎要从他们中间被取去，那日他们就要禁食。
But days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast in that day.
2:21 没有人用未漂过的布作补丁，缝在旧衣服上；不然，所补上的新布，会扯破旧的，裂缝就更大了。
No one sews a patch of unfulled cloth on an old garment; otherwise, that which fills it up pulls away from it, the new from the old, and a worse tear is made.
2:22 也没有人把新酒装在旧皮袋里；不然，酒把皮袋胀裂，酒和皮袋就都坏了；惟把新酒装在新皮袋里。
And no one puts new wine into old wineskins; otherwise, the wine will burst the wineskins, and the wine is ruined as well as the wineskins; but new wine is put
into fresh wineskins.
2:23 当安息日，耶稣从麦地经过，祂的门徒行路的时候，掐起麦穗来。
And He passed through the grainfields on the Sabbath, and His disciples began to go along, picking the ears of grain.
2:24 法利赛人对祂说，看哪，他们为什么作安息日不可作的事？
And the Pharisees said to Him, Look! Why are they doing on the Sabbath what is not lawful?
2:25 耶稣对他们说，大卫和跟从他的人，缺乏饥饿之时所作的，你们没有念过么？
And He said to them, Have you never read what David did when he had need and became hungry, he and those with him;
2:26 他当大祭司亚比亚他的时候，怎样进了神的殿，且吃了祭司以外人不可吃的陈设饼，又给跟从他的人吃。
How he entered into the house of God during the time of Abiathar the high priest and ate the bread of the presence, which is not lawful for anyone to eat except
the priests, and he gave also to those who were with him?
2:27 祂又对他们说，安息日是为着人的，人不是为着安息日的；
And He said to them, The Sabbath came into being for man, and not man for the Sabbath.
2:28 所以人子也是安息日的主。
So then the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath.
马可福音 Mark 第 3 章
3:1 耶稣又进了会堂，在那里有一个人，枯干了一只手。
And He entered again into the synagogue; and there was a man there who had a withered hand.
3:2 众人窥探耶稣，在安息日要不要医治那人，为的是要控告祂。
And they were watching Him closely to see if He would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse Him.
3:3 耶稣就对那枯干手的人说，起来，站在当中。
And He said to the man who had the withered hand, Rise and stand in the midst.
3:4 又对他们说，在安息日行善作恶，救命害命，那样是可以的？他们都不作声。
And He said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil, to save life or to kill? But they remained silent.
3:5 耶稣怒目环视他们，因他们的心刚硬而甚忧愁，就对那人说，伸出手来。他一伸，手就复了原。
And looking around at them with anger and being greatly grieved with the hardness of their heart, He said to the man, Stretch out your hand. And he stretched it
out, and his hand was restored.
3:6 法利赛人出去，即刻同希律党人商议，怎样抵挡祂，为要除灭祂。
And the Pharisees went out and immediately took counsel with the Herodians against Him as to how they might destroy Him.
3:7 耶稣同门徒退到海边去，有许多人从加利利来跟着祂；
And Jesus withdrew with His disciples to the sea, and a great multitude from Galilee followed; and from Judea
3:8 还有许多人听见祂所作的事，就从犹太、耶路撒冷、以土买、约但河外，并推罗、西顿的四周，来到祂那里。
And from Jerusalem and from Idumea and beyond the Jordan and around Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, hearing what things He did, came to Him.
3:9 祂因为人多，就吩咐门徒叫一只小船伺候着，免得群众拥挤祂。
And He told His disciples to have a little boat ready near Him because of the crowd, so that they would not throng Him;
3:10 因为祂治好了许多人，以致凡有灾病的，都挤过来要摸祂。
For He healed many, so that as many as had afflictions pressed toward Him to touch Him.
3:11 污灵一看见祂，就俯伏在祂面前，喊叫说，你是神的儿子。
And the unclean spirits, when they beheld Him, fell before Him and cried out, saying, You are the Son of God!
3:12 耶稣再三的嘱咐它们，不要显扬祂。
And He charged them many times not to make Him known.
3:13 耶稣上了山，把祂所愿意要的人召来，他们便到祂那里去。
And He went up to the mountain and called to Him those whom He Himself wanted, and they went to Him.
3:14 祂就选立十二个人，称他们为使徒，要他们和祂同在，好差遣他们去传道，
And He appointed twelve, whom He also named apostles, so that they might be with Him and that He might send them to preach
3:15 又有权柄赶鬼。
And to have the authority to cast out the demons.
3:16 祂选立的十二位有：西门，祂又给他起名叫彼得；
And He appointed the twelve: and to Simon He gave the name Peter;
3:17 还有西庇太的儿子雅各，和雅各的兄弟约翰，祂又给他们起名叫半尼其，就是雷子的意思；
And James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James, and He gave them the name, Boanerges, that is, Sons of Thunder;
3:18 又有安得烈、腓力、巴多罗买、马太、多马、亚勒腓的儿子雅各、达太、热烈派的西门、
And Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Cananaean,
3:19 和出卖耶稣的加略人犹大。
And Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed Him.
3:20 耶稣进了一个屋子，群众又聚在一起，以致他们连吃饭都不能。
And He came into a house, and again a crowd came together, so that they could not even eat bread.
3:21 耶稣的亲属听见，就出来要拉住祂，因为他们说祂癫狂了。
And when His relatives heard about it, they went out to lay hold of Him, for they said, He is beside Himself.
3:22 从耶路撒冷下来的经学家说，祂有别西卜附着；又说，祂是靠着鬼王赶鬼。
And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem said, He has Beelzebul, and by the ruler of the demons He casts out the demons.
3:23 耶稣叫他们来，用比喻对他们说，撒但怎能赶逐撒但？
And He called them to Himself and said to them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan?
3:24 若是一国自相分争，那国就站立不住；
And if a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom is not able to stand;
3:25 若是一家自相分争，那家就站立不住；
And if a house is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand;
3:26 若是撒但自相攻打分争，他就站立不住，必要灭绝。
And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he is not able to stand but has come to an end.
3:27 没有人能进壮者家里，洗劫他的家具，除非先捆绑那壮者，才能洗劫他的家。
But no one can enter into the house of the strong man and thoroughly plunder his goods unless he first binds the strong man, and then he will thoroughly
plunder his house.
3:28 我实在告诉你们，人一切的罪和亵渎，无论是亵渎什么，都能得赦免；
Truly I say to you that all sins will be forgiven the sons of men, and whatever blasphemies they blaspheme,
3:29 但无论谁亵渎圣灵，却永不得赦免，乃要担当永远的罪。
But whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit has no forgiveness forever, but is guilty of an everlasting sin.
3:30 这话是因为他们说，祂有污灵附着。
He said this because they said, He has an unclean spirit.
3:31 当下耶稣的母亲和兄弟来，站在外面，打发人去叫祂。
And His mother and His brothers came, and standing outside, they sent word to Him and called Him.
3:32 有群众在耶稣周围坐着，他们就告诉祂说，看哪，你的母亲和兄弟，并你的妹妹，在外面找你。
And a crowd sat around Him, and they said to Him, Behold, Your mother and Your brothers and Your sisters are outside seeking You.
3:33 耶稣回答他们说，谁是我的母亲和弟兄？
And He answered them and said, Who is My mother and My brothers?
3:34 于是祂环视那些围祂而坐的人，说，看哪，我的母亲，我的弟兄！
And looking around at those sitting in a circle around Him, He said, Behold, My mother and My brothers!
3:35 因为凡实行神旨意的，就是我的弟兄、姊妹和母亲了。
For whoever does the will of God, this one is My brother and sister and mother.
马可福音 Mark 第 4 章
4:1 耶稣又在海边施教；有大批群众聚集到祂那里，祂只得上船坐下；船在海里，群众都朝着海站在岸上。
And again He began to teach beside the sea, and a very great crowd was gathered unto Him, so that He stepped into a boat in the sea and sat down, and all
the crowd was on the land, facing the sea.
4:2 祂就用比喻教训他们许多事，在教训之间，对他们说，
And He taught them many things in parables and said to them in His teaching:
4:3 你们要听！看哪，那撒种的出去撒种。
Listen! Behold, the sower went out to sow.
4:4 撒的时候，有的落在路旁，飞鸟来吃尽了。
And as he sowed, some seed fell beside the way, and the birds came and devoured it.
4:5 又有的落在土浅石头地上，土既不深，立刻发苗；
And other seed fell on the rocky place, where it did not have much earth, and immediately it sprang up because it had no depth of earth.
4:6 日头一出来，就晒焦了，又因没有根，便枯干了。
And when the sun rose, it was scorched; and because it had no root, it withered.
4:7 还有的落在荆棘里，荆棘长起来，把它全然挤住了，就不结实。
And other seed fell into the thorns, and the thorns came up and utterly choked it, and it yielded no fruit.
4:8 但有的落在好土里，就发苗长大，并且结实，有的结三十倍，有的六十倍，有的一百倍。
And others fell into the good earth and yielded fruit, coming up and growing; and one bore thirty-fold, and one sixty-fold, and one a hundred-fold.
4:9 祂又说，有耳可听的，就应当听。
And He said, He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
4:10 当耶稣独自的时候，祂周围的人，和十二个门徒，就将这些比喻问祂。
And when He was alone, those around Him, with the twelve, asked Him about the parables.
4:11 耶稣对他们说，神国的奥秘，只给你们知道，但对外人，凡事就用比喻，
And He said to them, To you it has been given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God, but to those outside, all things are in parables,
4:12 叫他们看是看见，却看不透，听是听见，却不领悟；恐怕他们回转过来，就得赦免。
In order that seeing they may see and not perceive, and hearing they may hear and not understand, lest they turn and it be forgiven them.
4:13 耶稣又对他们说，你们不晓得这比喻么？这样怎能明白一切的比喻？
And He said to them, Do you not know this parable? And how will you know all the parables?
4:14 那撒种者所撒的，乃是道。
The sower sows the word.
4:15 那撒在路旁的，就是人听了道，撒但立刻来，把撒在他们里面的道夺了去。
And these are the ones beside the way, where the word is sown; and when they hear, immediately Satan comes and takes away the word which has been sown
into them.
4:16 那撒在石头地上的，照样也是人听了道，立刻欢喜领受，
And likewise, these are the ones being sown on the rocky places, who, when they hear the word, immediately receive it with joy.
4:17 但他们里面没有根，不过是暂时的；及至为道遭遇患难或逼迫，就立刻绊跌了。
Yet they have no root in themselves, but last only for a time; then when affliction or persecution occurs because of the word, immediately they are stumbled.
4:18 还有那撒在荆棘里的，就是人听了道，
And others are the ones being sown into the thorns; these are the ones who have heard the word,
4:19 后来有今世的思虑、钱财的迷惑、以及其他的贪欲，进来把道全然挤住了，道就不能结实。
And the anxieties of the age and the deceitfulness of riches and the lusts for other things enter in and utterly choke the word, and it becomes unfruitful.
4:20 但那撒在好土里的，就是人听了道，接受了，并且结实，有的三十倍，有的六十倍，有的一百倍。
And these are the ones sown on the good earth: those who hear the word and receive it and bear fruit, one thirtyfold, and one sixtyfold, and one a hundredfold.
4:21 耶稣又对他们说，灯拿来，岂是要放在斗底下，或床底下？不是要放在灯台上么？
And He said to them, Does the lamp come so that it may be placed under the bushel or under the bed? Does it not come that it may be placed on the lampstand?
4:22 因为隐藏的事没有不被显明的，隐瞒的事没有不暴露出来的。
For nothing is hidden except that it may be manifested, nor has anything become concealed but that it may come into the open.
4:23 有耳可听的，就应当听。
If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.
4:24 又对他们说，你们要留心所听的。你们用什么量器量给人，也必用什么量器量给你们，并且要加给你们。
And He said to them, Take heed what you hear. With what measure you measure, it shall be measured to you, and it shall be added to you.
4:25 因为有的，还要给他；没有的，连他所有的，也要从他夺去。
For he who has, it shall be given to him; and he who does not have, even what he has shall be taken away from him.
4:26 耶稣又说，神的国是这样，如同人把种子撒在地上，
And He said, So is the kingdom of God: as if a man cast seed on the earth,
4:27 黑夜睡觉，白日起来，这种子就发芽渐长，怎么会这样，他并不知道。
And sleeps and rises night and day, and the seed sprouts and lengthens -- how, he does not know.
4:28 地生五谷，是出于自然的：先发苗，后长穗，再后穗上结成饱满的子粒。
The earth bears fruit by itself: first a blade, then an ear, then full grain in the ear.
4:29 谷既熟了，他立刻用镰刀去割，因为收割的时候到了。
But when the fruit is ripe, immediately he sends forth the sickle, because the harvest has come.
4:30 耶稣又说，神的国我们可以比作什么？可用什么比喻表明？
And He said, How shall we liken the kingdom of God, or in what parable shall we present it?
4:31 好像一粒芥菜种，种在地里的时候，比地上百种都小，
It is like a mustard seed, which, when it is sown on the earth, is smaller than all the seeds on the earth.
4:32 种下以后，生长起来，却比各样的菜都大，且长出大枝子，甚至天空的飞鸟可以栖宿在它的荫下。
And when it is sown, it comes up and becomes greater than all the herbs and produces great branches, so that the birds of heaven can roost under its shade.
4:33 耶稣用许多这样的比喻，照他们所能听的，对他们讲道；
And in many such parables He spoke the word to them as they were able to hear;
4:34 若不用比喻，就不对他们讲；私下里才把一切讲解给自己的门徒听。
And without a parable He did not speak to them; but privately to His own disciples He explained all things.
4:35 当天黄昏，耶稣对门徒说，我们渡到对岸去。
And He said to them on that day when evening had fallen, Let us go over to the other side.
4:36 门徒离开群众，耶稣仍在船上，他们就把祂带去，也有别的船和祂同行。
And leaving the crowd, they took Him along, just as He was, in the boat; and other boats were with Him.
4:37 忽然起了大风暴，波浪打入船内，甚至船要满了水。
And there arose a great windstorm, and the waves beat into the boat, so that the boat was already beginning to fill up.
4:38 耶稣竟在船尾靠着枕头睡着。门徒叫醒了祂，对祂说，夫子，我们丧命，你不顾么？
And He was in the stern, sleeping on the cushion. And they woke Him and said to Him, Teacher, does it not matter to You that we are perishing?
4:39 耶稣醒来，斥责风，又向海说，安静吧！不要发声！风就止住，大大的平静了。
And having awoken, He rebuked the wind and said to the sea, Be silent! Be still! And the wind ceased and there was a great calm.
4:40 耶稣对他们说，为什么这样胆怯？你们怎么没有信心？
And He said to them, Why are you cowardly in this way? How is it that you do not have faith?
4:41 他们就大大的惧怕，彼此说，这人到底是谁，连风和海也听从了祂？
And they became greatly frightened and said to one another, Who then is this, that even the wind and the sea obey Him?
马可福音 Mark 第 5 章
5:1 他们来到海的对岸，格拉森人的地方。
And they came to the other side of the sea, into the region of the Gerasenes.
5:2 耶稣一下船，立即有一个污灵附着的人，从坟茔里出来迎着祂。
And when He came out of the boat, immediately, from out of the tombs, a man with an unclean spirit met Him,
5:3 那人经常以坟茔为住处；再没有人能捆住他，就是用铁链也不能；
Who had his dwelling among the tombs. And no one could bind him any longer, not even with a chain,
5:4 因为人屡次用脚镣和铁链捆锁他，铁链竟被他挣断，脚镣也被他弄碎，总没有人能制伏他。
Because he had often been bound with shackles and chains, and the chains had been torn apart by him, and the shackles smashed, and no one was strong
enough to subdue him.
5:5 他昼夜常在坟茔和山中喊叫，又用石头砍自己。
And continually night and day, among the tombs and in the mountains, he cried out and gashed himself with stones.
5:6 他远远的看见耶稣，就跑过去拜祂，
And when he saw Jesus from a distance, he ran and worshipped Him,
5:7 大声喊叫说，至高神的儿子耶稣，我与你何干？我指着神切求你，不要叫我受苦。
And crying out with a loud voice, he said, What do I have to do with You, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I adjure You by God, do not torment me!
5:8 因耶稣曾对他说，污灵，从这人身上出来。
For He had said to him, Come out of the man, unclean spirit.
5:9 耶稣问他说，你名叫什么？他说，我名叫群，因为我们众多。
And He questioned him, What is your name? And he said to Him, Legion is my name, because we are many.
5:10 他就再三的央求耶稣，不要打发它们离开那地方。
And he entreated Him much not to send them out of the region.
5:11 在那里山坡上，有一大群猪正在吃食。
Now there on the mountainside was a great herd of hogs feeding.
5:12 它们就央求耶稣说，打发我们到猪群去，我们好进入它们里面。
And they entreated Him, saying, Send us to the hogs, so that we may enter into them.
5:13 耶稣就准了它们；污灵便出来，进入猪里去；于是那群猪闯下山崖，投入海里，约有二千，都淹死在海中。
And He gave them permission. And the unclean spirits came out and entered into the hogs, and the herd, about two thousand, rushed down the steep slope into
the sea, and they were drowned in the sea.
5:14 放猪的就逃跑了，去告诉城里和乡下的人。众人就来，要看所发生的是什么事。
And those who were feeding them fled and reported it in the city and in the countryside. And they came to see what had happened.
5:15 他们来到耶稣那里，看见那鬼附的人，就是从前被群鬼所附的，坐着，身穿衣服，神志清醒，他们就害怕。
And they came to Jesus and saw the demon possessed man sitting down, clothed, and sane, the man who had had the legion, and they became frightened.
5:16 看见这事的，便将鬼附之人所遇见的，和那群猪的事，都对人述说。
And those who had seen it related to them how it had happened to the demon possessed man and concerning the hogs.
5:17 他们就恳求耶稣离开他们的境界。
And they began to entreat Him to depart from their borders.
5:18 耶稣上船的时候，那被鬼附过的人，恳求要和祂同在。
And as He got into the boat, the man who had been demon possessed begged Him that he might stay with Him.
5:19 耶稣不许，却对他说，你回家去，到你的亲属那里，将主为你作了何等大的事，并怎样怜悯你，都告诉他们。
And He did not allow him, but said to him, Go to your house, to your own people, and report to them what great things the Lord has done for you, and how He
has had mercy on you.
5:20 那人走了，就在低加波利，传扬耶稣为他作了何等大的事，众人就都希奇。
And he departed and began to proclaim in Decapolis what great things Jesus had done for him, and all marveled.
5:21 耶稣坐船又渡到对岸去，就有大批的群众聚集到祂那里；祂正在海边。
And when Jesus had crossed over again in the boat to the other side, a great crowd gathered to Him, and He was beside the sea.
5:22 有一个管会堂的，名叫睚鲁，来见耶稣，就俯伏在祂脚前，
And one of the rulers of the synagogue came, Jairus by name, and seeing Him, fell at His feet;
5:23 再三的求祂说，我的小女儿快要死了，求你去按手在她身上，使她得拯救，可以活着。
And he entreated Him much, saying, My little daughter is at the point of death. Please come and lay Your hands on her that she may be healed and live.
5:24 耶稣就和他同去，有大批的群众跟随祂，并拥挤祂。
And He went with him, and a great crowd followed Him and pressed upon Him.
5:25 有一个女人，患了十二年血漏，
And a woman was there, who had a flow of blood for twelve years.
5:26 在好些医生手里，受了许多苦，又花尽了她所有的，一点也不见好，反倒更重了。
She had suffered much under many physicians and had spent everything she had and had not benefited at all, but rather became worse.
5:27 她听见耶稣的事，就从群众后面来摸耶稣的衣服。
When she heard the things concerning Jesus, she came up in the crowd behind Him and touched His garment,
5:28 因为她说，我只要摸着祂的衣服，就必得拯救。
For she said, If I touch even His garments, I will be healed.
5:29 于是她血漏的源头立刻干了，她便觉得身上的灾病得了医治。
And immediately the fountain of her blood was dried up, and she knew in her body that she was cured of the affliction.
5:30 耶稣里面顿觉有能力从自己身上出去，就在群众当中转过身来，说，谁摸我的衣服？
And immediately Jesus, realizing in Himself that power had gone out of Him, turned around in the crowd and said, Who touched My garments?
5:31 门徒对祂说，你看群众拥挤你，还说谁摸我么？
And His disciples said to Him, You see the crowd pressing upon You and You say, Who touched Me?
5:32 耶稣周围观看，要见作这事的女人。
And He looked around to see her who had done this.
5:33 那女人知道在自己身上所发生的事，就恐惧战兢，来俯伏在耶稣跟前，将实情全告诉祂。
But the woman, frightened and trembling, knew what had happened to her, and she came and fell down before Him and told Him the whole truth.
5:34 耶稣对她说，女儿，你的信救了你，平平安安的去吧！你的灾病痊愈了。
And He said to her, Daughter, your faith has healed you. Go in peace and be well from your affliction.
5:35 耶稣还说话的时候，有人从管会堂的家里来，说，你的女儿死了，何必还烦扰夫子？
While He was still speaking, some came from the house of the ruler of the synagogue, saying, Your daughter has died. Why bother the Teacher any longer?
5:36 耶稣从旁听见所说的话，就对管会堂的说，不要怕，只要信！
But Jesus, overhearing the word spoken, said to the ruler of the synagogue, Do not be afraid -- only believe.
5:37 除了彼得、雅各和雅各的兄弟约翰，祂不许任何人跟着祂。
And He did not allow anyone to accompany Him except Peter and James and John the brother of James.
5:38 他们来到管会堂的家里，耶稣看见乱嚷，有人哭泣，有人大大哀号。
And they came to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and He saw a commotion and people weeping and wailing greatly.
5:39 祂就进去，对他们说，为什么乱嚷哭泣？小孩子不是死了，乃是睡了。
And He entered in and said to them, Why do you make a commotion and weep? The child has not died but is sleeping.
5:40 他们就嗤笑祂。祂既把众人都撵出去，就带着小孩子的父母，和同着祂的人，进了小孩子所在的地方；
And they laughed scornfully at Him. But He, putting them all out, took the father of the child and the mother and those with Him and went in to where the child
was.
5:41 就拉着小孩子的手，对她说，大利大古米！（翻出来就是，闺女，我吩咐你起来！）
And He took hold of the child's hand and said to her, Talitha koum! which being interpreted is, Little girl, to you I say, Arise!
5:42 那闺女便立刻起来行走，那时她已经十二岁了。他们立即大大的惊奇。
And immediately the little girl rose up and walked about, for she was twelve years old. And immediately, they were amazed with great amazement.
5:43 耶稣再三的嘱咐他们，不要叫人知道这事，又吩咐给她东西吃。
And He strongly commanded them that no one should know about this, and told them to give her something to eat.
马可福音 Mark 第 6 章
6:1 耶稣离开那里，来到自己的家乡，门徒也跟着祂。
And He went out from there and came into His own country, and His disciples followed Him.
6:2 到了安息日，祂在会堂里施教；许多人听见，就甚惊讶，说，这人从那里得来这些事？所赐给祂的是什么样的智慧！这样的异能竟然经祂的手行出来！
And when the Sabbath had come, He began to teach in the synagogue; and many hearing were astounded, saying, Where did this man get these things? And
what is this wisdom given to this man, and how is it that such works of power take place through His hands?
6:3 这不是那木匠么？不是马利亚的儿子，雅各、约西、犹大、西门的长兄么？祂妹妹们不也是在我们这里么？他们就因祂绊跌。
Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, and brother of James and Joses and Judas and Simon? And are not His sisters here with us? And they were stumbled in
Him.
6:4 耶稣对他们说，申言者除了在本地、亲属并本家之外，没有不被人尊敬的。
And Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor except in his own country and among his own relatives and in his own house.
6:5 耶稣在那里就不能行什么异能，不过按手在几个病人身上，治好他们。
And He could not do any work of power there, except to lay His hands upon a few of the sick and heal them.
6:6 祂也希奇他们不信，就周游四围乡村施教去了。
And He marveled because of their unbelief; and He went around the villages in a circuit, teaching.
6:7 耶稣叫了十二个门徒来，差遣他们两个两个的出去，赐给他们权柄，制伏污灵；
And He called the twelve to Him and began to send them out two by two and gave them authority over the unclean spirits;
6:8 并且吩咐他们，行路的时候，除了手杖以外，什么都不要带，不要带食物和口袋，腰袋里也不要带钱；
And He charged them not to take anything for the journey except only a staff: no bread, no bag, no money in their belt;
6:9 只要穿鞋，也不要穿两件里衣。
But to have sandals tied on; and said, Do not put on two tunics.
6:10 又对他们说，你们无论到那里，进了一家，就住在那里，直到离开那地方。
And He said to them, Wherever you enter into a house, there remain until you depart from that place.
6:11 无论何处不接待你们，又不听你们，你们离开那里的时候，就把脚上的尘土跺下去，作反对他们的见证。
And whatever place does not receive you nor hear you, as you go out from there, shake off the dust under your feet for a testimony against them.
6:12 门徒就出去，传道叫人悔改，
And they went forth and proclaimed that men should repent,
6:13 又赶出许多鬼，用油抹了许多病人，治好他们。
And they cast out many demons and anointed many of the sick with oil and healed them.
6:14 耶稣的名声传扬出去，希律王也听见了。有人说，施浸者约翰从死人中复活了，所以这些异能发显在他身上。
And King Herod heard of it, for His name had become known, and they said, John the baptizer has been raised from the dead, and because of this these works
of power are operating through him.
6:15 但别人说，祂是以利亚；又有人说，祂是申言者，正像申言者中的一位。
But others said, He is Elijah; and others said, He is a prophet, like one of the prophets.
6:16 希律听见，却说，是我所斩的约翰复活了。
But Herod, hearing of it, said, He whom I beheaded, John, this one was raised!
6:17 原来希律为他兄弟腓力的妻子希罗底的缘故，差人拿住约翰，把他捆锁在监里，因为希律已经娶了那妇人。
For Herod himself had sent men and seized John and bound him in prison on account of Herodias, the wife of Philip his brother, because he had married her.
6:18 约翰曾对希律说，你不可娶你兄弟的妻子。
For John had been saying to Herod, It is not lawful for you to have the wife of your brother.
6:19 于是希罗底怀恨他，想要杀他，只是不能。
Thus, Herodias had a grudge against him and wanted to kill him and could not,
6:20 因为希律晓得约翰是义人，是圣人，所以敬畏他，并且保护他；虽听他讲论，甚感困惑，却仍喜欢听他。
For Herod feared John, knowing that he was a righteous and holy man, and kept him safe. And when he heard him, he was very perplexed yet heard him gladly.
6:21 有一天，机会来了。希律在他的生日，为他的大臣和千夫长，并加利利的首领，摆设筵席。
And an opportune day came, when Herod on his birthday made a banquet for his courtiers and the commanders and the leading men of Galilee.
6:22 希罗底的女儿进来跳舞，使希律和同席的人都欢喜。王就对闺女说，你随意向我求什么，我都必给你。
And when the daughter of Herodias herself entered and danced, she pleased Herod and those reclining at table with him. The king said to the girl, Ask of me
whatever you want, and I will give it to you.
6:23 又极力对她起誓说，你无论向我求什么，就是我国的一半，我也必给你。
And he swore to her earnestly, Whatever you ask of me, I will give to you, up to half of my kingdom.
6:24 她就出去，对她母亲说，我该求什么？她母亲说，施浸者约翰的头。
And she went out and said to her mother, What should I ask for? And she said, The head of John the baptizer.
6:25 她随即匆忙的进到王那里，求他说，我愿王立时把施浸者约翰的头，放在盘子上给我。
And coming in immediately with haste to the king, she asked, saying, I want you to give me at once the head of John the Baptist on a platter.
6:26 王虽甚忧愁，但因所起的誓，又因同席的人，就不愿拒绝。
And the king was very grieved, yet because of the oaths and those reclining at table, he did not want to refuse her.
6:27 随即差遣一个卫兵，吩咐拿约翰的头来。卫兵就去，在监里斩了约翰，
And immediately the king sent a guard and ordered him to bring his head. And he went out and beheaded him in the prison,
6:28 把他的头放在盘子上，拿来给闺女，闺女就给她母亲。
And brought his head on a platter, and gave it to the girl, and the girl gave it to her mother.
6:29 约翰的门徒听见了，就来把他的尸体领去，放在坟墓里。
And when his disciples heard about it, they came and took his corpse and put it in a tomb.
6:30 使徒聚集到耶稣那里，将他们所作、所教训的一切，都报告给祂。
And the apostles gathered together to Jesus and reported to Him all that they did and all that they taught.
6:31 耶稣就对他们说，来吧，你们暗暗的到旷野地方歇一歇。这是因为来往的人多，他们连吃饭也没有机会。
And He said to them, Come by yourselves privately to a deserted place and rest a while. For there were many coming and going, and they did not even have
opportunity to eat.
6:32 他们就坐船，暗暗的往旷野地方去。
And they went away in the boat to a deserted place privately.
6:33 许多人看见他们去，认出了他们，就从各城步行，一同跑到那里，比他们先到。
And many saw them going away and recognized them, and they ran together there on foot from all the cities and got there before them.
6:34 耶稣出来，看见大批的群众，就对他们动了慈心，因为他们如同羊没有牧人一样；祂就开始教训他们许多事。
And getting out, He saw a great crowd, and He was moved with compassion for them because they were like sheep not having a shepherd, and He began to
teach them many things.
6:35 时候已经晚了，门徒到祂跟前来，说，这是野地，时候也晚了，
And when the hour had already become late, His disciples came to Him and said, This place is deserted, and the hour is already late;
6:36 请解散群众，他们好往周围田舍村庄里去，为自己买吃的。
Send them away so that they may go into the surrounding fields and villages and buy for themselves something to eat.
6:37 耶稣回答他们说，你们给他们吃吧。他们说，要我们去买二百银币的饼，给他们吃么？
But He answered and said to them, You give them something to eat. And they said to Him, Shall we go away and buy two hundred denarii worth of bread and
give it to them to eat?
6:38 祂说，你们有多少饼？去看看。他们知道了，就说，五个，还有两条鱼。
And He said to them, How many loaves do you have? Go and see. And when they found out, they said, Five, and two fish.
6:39 耶稣吩咐他们叫众人一组一组的，坐在青草地上。
And He ordered them to have all recline by companies on the green grass.
6:40 众人就一班一班的坐下，有一百一班的，有五十一班的。
And they sat down in groups, by hundreds and by fifties.
6:41 耶稣拿着五个饼两条鱼，望着天祝福，擘开饼，递给门徒，摆在众人面前，也把那两条鱼分给众人。
And He took the five loaves and the two fish and, looking up to heaven, He blessed and broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples to set before them; and
the two fish He divided among all.
6:42 众人都吃，并且吃饱了。
And they all ate and were satisfied.
6:43 门徒就拾起零碎，装满了十二篮子，还有鱼的零碎。
And they took up twelve full handbaskets of the broken pieces of bread and of the fish.
6:44 吃饼的男人，共有五千。
And those who had eaten the loaves were five thousand men.
6:45 耶稣随即催门徒上船，先到对岸伯赛大去，等祂解散群众。
And immediately He compelled His disciples to step into the boat and go before to the other side, toward Bethsaida, while He sent the crowd away.
6:46 祂既辞别了他们，就往山上去祷告。
And after He said farewell to them, He went away to the mountain to pray.
6:47 到了晚上，船在海中，耶稣独自在岸上，
And when evening fell, the boat was in the midst of the sea and He was alone on the land.
6:48 看见门徒，因风不顺，摇橹甚苦。夜里约有四更天，祂在海上走向他们，想要走过他们去。
And seeing them distressed as they rowed, for the wind was contrary to them, He came toward them about the fourth watch of the night, walking on the sea,
and He intended to pass by them.
6:49 门徒看见祂在海上走，以为是鬼怪，就喊叫起来；
But when they saw Him walking on the sea, they thought that it was a ghost, and they cried out,
6:50 因为他们都看见了祂，且甚惊慌。耶稣立即同他们讲话，对他们说，放心，是我，不要怕。
For they all saw Him and were startled. But immediately He spoke with them and said to them, Take courage. It is I. Do not be afraid.
6:51 于是到他们那里，上了船，风就止住了。他们心里极其惊奇，
And He went up unto them into the boat, and the wind ceased. And they were greatly astonished in themselves beyond measure,
6:52 因为他们不领悟分饼的事，心里还是顽固。
For they did not understand concerning the loaves, but rather their heart was hardened.
6:53 他们既渡过去，来到革尼撒勒地方，就靠了岸。
And they crossed over to the land and came to Gennesaret and moored there.
6:54 一下船，众人立刻认出祂来，
And when they came out of the boat, immediately the people recognized Him,
6:55 就跑遍那一带地方，听见祂在何处，便将有病的人，用褥子抬到那里。
And they ran about that whole region and began to carry around on mats those who were ill to any place where they heard that He was.
6:56 凡耶稣所到的地方，或村中，或城里，或乡间，他们都将病弱的放在市场上，求耶稣准他们至少摸祂的衣服穗子；凡摸着祂的人，都得了拯救。
And wherever He entered into villages or into cities or into the countryside, they laid those who were sick in the marketplaces and begged Him that they might
touch if even the fringe of His garment; and as many as touched Him were healed.
马可福音 Mark 第 7 章
7:1 有法利赛人和几个经学家，从耶路撒冷来到耶稣那里聚集。
And the Pharisees and some of the scribes gathered together to Him when they had come from Jerusalem
7:2 他们曾看见祂的门徒中，有人用俗手，就是没有洗的手吃饭。
And had seen that some of His disciples ate bread with common hands, that is, unwashed.
7:3 （原来法利赛人和所有的犹太人，都拘守古人的传统，若不仔细洗手，就不吃饭；
(For the Pharisees and all the Jews, unless they carefully wash their hands, do not eat, holding the tradition of the elders;
7:4 从市场上来，若不洗浴，也不吃饭；他们所沿袭拘守的，还有好些别的事，就如浸洗杯、罐、铜器等。）
And when they come from the marketplace, unless they wash themselves, they do not eat. And there are many other things which they have received to hold, the
dipping of cups and pitchers and copper vessels.)
7:5 法利赛人和经学家就问祂说，你的门徒为什么不照古人的传统行事，用俗手吃饭？
And the Pharisees and the scribes questioned Him, Why do Your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat bread with common hands?
7:6 耶稣对他们说，以赛亚指着你们假冒为善之人所申言的，是对的，如经上所记，“这百姓用嘴唇尊敬我，心却远离我；
And He said to them, Well has Isaiah prophesied concerning you hypocrites, as it is written, "This people honors Me with their lips, but their heart stays far away
from Me;
7:7 他们敬拜我也是徒然，因为他们将人的吩咐当作教训教导人。”
But in vain do they worship Me, teaching as teachings the commandments of men.''
7:8 你们是离弃神的诫命，拘守人的传统。
While leaving the commandment of God, you hold the tradition of men.
7:9 祂又说，你们巧妙的废弃神的诫命，为要遵守自己的传统。
And He said to them, You nicely set aside the commandment of God that you may keep your tradition.
7:10 摩西说，“当孝敬父母，”又说，“咒骂父母的，要被处死。”
For Moses said, "Honor your father and your mother,'' and, "He who speaks evil of father or mother, let him be put to death.''
7:11 你们倒说，人若对父母说，我所当供养你的，已经作了各耳板，（就是礼物，）
But you say: If a man says to his father or his mother, Whatever you would have been profited by me is now corban (that is, a gift to God),
7:12 你们就不容许他再为父母作任何事。
Allow him to no longer do anything for his father or his mother.
7:13 这就是你们借着所传授的传统，使神的话失去效力和权柄。你们还作许多这类的事。
Thus you deprive the word of God of its authority by your tradition which you have handed down. And many things similar to these you do.
7:14 耶稣又叫了群众来，对他们说，你们众人要听我，也要领悟。
And He called the crowd to Him again and said to them, Hear Me, all of you, and understand.
7:15 从人外面进去的，没有一样能污秽人，惟有从人里面出来的，乃能污秽人。
There is nothing outside of a man which entering into him can defile him, but the things coming out of a man are the things which defile a man.
7:16 凡有耳可听的，就应当听。
If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.
7:17 耶稣离开群众，进了屋子，门徒就将这比喻问祂。
And when He entered into a house from the crowd, His disciples questioned Him concerning the parable.
7:18 祂对他们说，连你们也是这样不领悟么？岂不知凡从外面进入的，不能污秽人？
And He said to them, Are you also in the same manner without understanding? Do you not understand that everything that enters from outside into a man is not
able to defile him,
7:19 因为不是进入他的心，乃是进入他的肚腹，又排到茅厕里。祂这样说，就把各样的食物都洁净了。
Because it does not enter into his heart, but into the stomach, and goes out into the drain? (In saying this, He made all foods clean.)
7:20 祂又说，从人里面出来的，那才污秽人。
And He said, That which goes out of the man, that defiles the man.
7:21 因为从里面，就是从人心里，发出恶念、淫乱、偷窃、凶杀、
For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil reasonings, fornications, thefts, murders,
7:22 奸淫、贪婪、邪恶、诡诈、淫荡、嫉妒、谤讟、狂傲、愚妄；
Adulteries, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, licentiousness, envy, blasphemy, arrogance, foolishness.
7:23 这一切的恶，都是从里面发出来，且能污秽人。
All these wicked things proceed from within and defile the man.
7:24 耶稣从那里起身，往推罗、西顿的境内去。进了一家，不愿意人知道，却隐藏不住。
And He rose up from there and went away into the borders of Tyre and Sidon. And entering into a house, He wanted no one to know about it; yet He could not
escape notice.
7:25 有一个妇人，她的小女儿有污灵附着，听见耶稣的事，立即来俯伏在祂脚前。
But a woman whose little daughter had an unclean spirit heard about Him, and immediately she came and fell at His feet.
7:26 这妇人是希利尼人，属叙利腓尼基族。她求耶稣赶出那鬼，离开她的女儿。
Now the woman was a Greek, Syrophoenician by race. And she asked Him to cast the demon out of her daughter.
7:27 耶稣对她说，让儿女们先吃饱，因为不好拿儿女的饼丢给小狗。
And He said to her, First let the children be satisfied, for it is not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs.
7:28 妇人回答祂说，主阿，是的，就是小狗在桌子底下，也吃孩子们的碎渣。
And she answered and said to Him, Yes, Lord, but even the little dogs under the table eat of the little children's crumbs.
7:29 耶稣对她说，因这句话，你去吧，鬼已经离开你的女儿了。
And He said to her, Because of this word, go. The demon has gone out of your daughter.
7:30 她就回家去，见小孩子躺在床榻上，鬼已经出去了。
And she went away to her house and found the little child lying on the couch and the demon gone out.
7:31 耶稣又离开推罗的境界，经过西顿，来到低加波利境内的加利利海。
And again He came out of the borders of Tyre and came through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee in the midst of the borders of Decapolis.
7:32 有人带着一个耳聋舌结的人，来就耶稣，求祂按手在他身上。
And they brought to Him one who was deaf and who spoke with difficulty, and they entreated Him to lay His hand on him.
7:33 耶稣暗暗的领他离开群众，到一边去，就用指头探入他的耳朵，吐唾沫抹他的舌头，
And He took him aside from the crowd privately and put His fingers into his ears, and He spat and touched his tongue.
7:34 望天叹息，对他说，以法大！就是，开了吧！
And looking up to heaven, He groaned and said to him, Ephphatha! that is, Be opened!
7:35 他的耳朵立即开了，舌结也解了，说话也清楚了。
And immediately his ears were opened, and the bond on his tongue was released and he spoke clearly.
7:36 耶稣嘱咐他们，不要告诉人。但祂越发嘱咐他们，他们越发大大的传扬开了。
And He charged them not to tell anyone. But the more He charged them, so much the more they proclaimed it.
7:37 众人分外惊讶，说，祂所有的事都作得好；祂既叫聋的听见，又叫哑的说话。
And they were utterly astounded, saying, He has done all things well; He makes both the deaf hear and the dumb speak.
马可福音 Mark 第 8 章
8:1 那些日子，又有大批的群众，他们没有什么吃的；耶稣叫门徒来，对他们说，
In those days, since there was again a great crowd and they did not have anything to eat, He called the disciples to Him and said to them,
8:2 我对这群众动了慈心，因为他们同我在一起已经三天，也没有什么吃的了。
I am moved with compassion for the crowd, because for three days now they have remained with Me and they do not have anything to eat.
8:3 我若解散他们饿着回家，他们必在路上困乏，况且其中有些是从远处来的。
And if I send them away to their home hungry, they will faint on the way; and some of them have come from a distance.
8:4 门徒回答祂说，在这旷野，从那里能得饼，叫这些人吃饱？
And His disciples answered Him, Where will anyone be able to get enough to satisfy these people with bread here in this desolate place?
8:5 耶稣问他们说，你们有多少饼？他们说，七个。
And He asked them, How many loaves do you have? And they said, Seven.
8:6 祂吩咐群众坐在地上，就拿着七个饼，祝谢了，擘开，递给门徒，叫他们摆开，他们就摆在群众面前。
And He charged the crowd to recline on the ground. And taking the seven loaves, He gave thanks and broke them, and gave them to His disciples to set before
them, and they set them before the crowd.
8:7 他们还有几条小鱼，耶稣祝福了，就吩咐这些也要摆开。
And they had a few small fish, and having blessed them, He said that these also should be set before them.
8:8 众人都吃，并且吃饱了，拾起剩下的零碎，有七筐子。
And they ate and were satisfied. And they took up the surplus of broken pieces, seven baskets.
8:9 人数约有四千。耶稣解散了他们，
And there were about four thousand people. And He sent them away.
8:10 立即同门徒上船，来到大玛努他境内。
And immediately He got into the boat with His disciples and came into the parts of Dalmanutha.
8:11 法利赛人出来，同耶稣辩论，向祂寻求一个从天上来的神迹，想要试诱祂。
And the Pharisees came out and began to dispute with Him, seeking from Him a sign from heaven and tempting Him.
8:12 耶稣灵里深深的叹息说，这世代为什么寻求神迹？我实在告诉你们，没有神迹给这世代了。
And He groaned deeply in His spirit and said, Why does this generation seek a sign? Truly I tell you, No sign shall be given to this generation.
8:13 祂就离开他们，又上船往对岸去了。
And leaving them, He again got into a boat and went away to the other side.
8:14 门徒忘了带饼，船上除了一个饼，他们身边再没有别的食物。
And they forgot to take bread, and except for one loaf, they did not have any with them in the boat.
8:15 耶稣嘱咐他们说，你们要当心，提防法利赛人的酵，和希律的酵。
And He charged them, saying, Watch! Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod.
8:16 他们就彼此议论，说，这是因为我们没有饼吧。
And they reasoned with one another, saying, It is because we do not have bread.
8:17 耶稣知道了，就对他们说，你们为什么因为没有饼就议论？你们还不明白，还不领悟么？你们的心还是顽固么？
And Jesus, knowing it, said to them, Why are you reasoning because you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive nor understand? Do you have your heart
hardened?
8:18 你们有眼睛，看不见么？有耳朵，听不见么？也不记得么？
Having eyes, do you not see? And having ears, do you not hear? And do you not remember?
8:19 我擘开那五个饼分给五千人，你们拾起的零碎，装满了多少篮子？他们说，十二个。
When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many handbaskets full of broken pieces did you take up? They said to Him, Twelve.
8:20 那七个饼分给四千人，你们拾起的零碎，装满了多少筐子？他们说，七个。
And when I broke the seven for the four thousand, how many baskets filled with broken pieces did you take up? And they said, Seven.
8:21 耶稣对他们说，你们还是不领悟么？
And He said to them, Do you not yet understand?
8:22 他们来到伯赛大，有人带一个瞎子来，求耶稣摸他。
And they came to Bethsaida. And they brought to Him a blind man and entreated Him to touch him.
8:23 耶稣拉着瞎子的手，领他到村外，就吐唾沫在他眼睛上，按手在他身上，问他说，你看见什么没有？
And He took hold of the hand of the blind man and led him forth outside the village. And He spat on his eyes and laid His hands on him and asked him, Do you
see anything?
8:24 他就往上一看，说，我看见人了，见他们像树行走。
And he looked up and said, I see men, for I see them as trees, walking.
8:25 于是耶稣又按手在他眼睛上，他定睛一看，就复了原，样样都看得清楚了。
Then again He laid His hands upon his eyes, and the man looked intently and was restored, and he began to see all things clearly.
8:26 耶稣打发他回家，说，连这村子你也不要进去。
And He sent him to his house, saying, Do not even enter into the village.
8:27 耶稣和门徒出去，往该撒利亚腓立比的村庄去。祂在路上问门徒说，人说我是谁？
And Jesus and His disciples went out into the villages of Caesarea Philippi. And on the way He questioned His disciples, saying to them, Who do men say that I
am?
8:28 他们对祂说，有人说是施浸者约翰，另有人说是以利亚，还有别人说是申言者中的一位。
And they told Him, saying, John the Baptist; and others, Elijah; but others, one of the prophets.
8:29 祂问他们说，你们说我是谁？彼得回答祂说，你是基督。
And He questioned them, But you, who do you say that I am? Peter answered and said to Him, You are the Christ!
8:30 祂就严正的警告他们，不要把祂的事告诉人。
And He charged them not to tell anyone concerning Him.
8:31 于是祂教训他们说，人子必须受许多的苦，被长老、祭司长和经学家弃绝，并且被杀，过三天复活。
And He began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes and be killed and
after three days rise.
8:32 耶稣明明的说这话，彼得就拉祂到一边，责劝祂。
And He spoke this word openly. And Peter took Him aside and began to rebuke Him.
8:33 耶稣转过身来，看着门徒，责备彼得说，撒但，退我后面去吧！因为你不思念神的事，只思念人的事。
But turning around and looking at His disciples, He rebuked Peter and said, Get behind Me, Satan! For you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on
the things of men.
8:34 于是耶稣叫群众同祂的门徒来，对他们说，若有人要跟从我，就当否认己，背起他的十字架，并跟从我。
And He called the crowd to Him with His disciples and said to them, If anyone wants to follow after Me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow Me.
8:35 因为凡要救自己魂生命的，必丧失魂生命；凡为我和福音丧失自己魂生命的，必救了魂生命。
For whoever wants to save his soul-life shall lose it; but whoever will lose his soul-life for My sake and the gospel's shall save it.
8:36 人就是赚得全世界，赔上自己的魂生命，有什么益处？
For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul-life?
8:37 人还能拿什么换自己的魂生命？
For what could a man give in exchange for his soul-life?
8:38 凡在这淫乱罪恶的世代，把我和我的话当作可耻的，人子在祂父的荣耀里，同着圣天使来临的时候，也要把那人当作可耻的。
For whoever is ashamed of Me and of My words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of Man also will be ashamed of him when He comes in the
glory of His Father with the holy angels.
马可福音 Mark 第 9 章
9:1 耶稣又对他们说，我实在告诉你们，站在这里的，有人还没有尝到死味，必看见神的国带着能力来临。
And He said to them, Truly I say to you, there are some of those standing here who shall by no means taste death until they see the kingdom of God having come
in power.
9:2 过了六天，耶稣带着彼得、雅各和约翰，暗暗的领开他们上了高山，就在他们面前变了形像，
And after six days Jesus took with Him Peter and James and John, and brought them up alone into a high mountain privately. And He was transfigured before
them,
9:3 衣服放光，白到极点，地上漂布的，没有一个能漂得那样白。
And His garments became sparkling, exceedingly white, such as no fuller on earth could whiten them.
9:4 有以利亚同着摩西向他们显现，并且同耶稣谈话。
And Elijah with Moses appeared to them, and they were conversing with Jesus.
9:5 彼得对耶稣说，拉比，我们在这里真好，可以搭三座帐棚，一座为你，一座为摩西，一座为以利亚。
And Peter answered and said to Jesus, Rabbi, it is good for us to be here; and let us make three tents, one for You and one for Moses and one for Elijah.
9:6 彼得不知道该说什么才好，因为他们甚是惧怕。
For he did not know what to answer, for they had become extremely frightened.
9:7 有一朵云彩来遮盖他们，又有声音从云彩里出来，说，这是我的爱子，你们要听祂。
And a cloud appeared, overshadowing them, and a voice came out of the cloud: This is My Son, the Beloved. Hear Him!
9:8 他们忽然周围一看，不再见一人，只见耶稣同他们在那里。
And suddenly, when they looked around, they no longer saw anyone, but Jesus only with them.
9:9 他们下山的时候，耶稣嘱咐他们说，除非人子从死人中复活，你们不要将所看见的对人述说。
And as they were coming down from the mountain, He ordered them not to relate to anyone the things which they had seen, except when the Son of Man has
risen from the dead.
9:10 门徒将这话存在心里，彼此讨论什么是从死人中复活。
And they kept the word, discussing among themselves what rising from the dead was.
9:11 他们就问耶稣说，经学家为什么说，以利亚必须先来？
And they asked Him, saying, Why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?
9:12 耶稣说，以利亚固然要先来复兴万事。怎么经上又记着，人子要受许多的苦，且被人视为无有？
And He said to them, Elijah does indeed come first and restore all things. And how is it that it is written of the Son of Man that He should suffer many things and
be counted as nothing?
9:13 其实我告诉你们，以利亚确是已经来了，他们且任意待他，正如经上指着他所记的。
But I tell you that Elijah has indeed come, and they did to him the things that they wished, even as it is written of him.
9:14 耶稣和三个门徒，到了门徒那里，看见大批群众围着他们，又有经学家和他们辩论。
And when they came to the disciples, they saw a great crowd around them, and some scribes disputing with them.
9:15 群众一看见耶稣，都甚吃惊，就跑上去问祂的安。
And immediately, when all the crowd saw Him, they were amazed, and they ran to Him and greeted Him.
9:16 耶稣问他们说，你们和他们辩论的是什么？
And He questioned them, What are you disputing with them?
9:17 群众中间有一个回答祂说，夫子，我带了我的儿子到你这里来，他被哑吧灵附着；
And one from the crowd answered Him, Teacher, I brought to You my son, who has a dumb spirit;
9:18 无论在那里，灵抓住他，把他摔倒，他就口中流沫，咬牙切齿，身体枯干。我请过你的门徒把灵赶出去，他们却无能为力。
And wherever it seizes him, it throws him down, and he foams at the mouth and grinds his teeth; and he is wasting away. And I told Your disciples to cast it out,
and they were not able.
9:19 耶稣回答他们说，唉，不信的世代！我与你们同在要到几时？我忍耐你们要到几时？把他带到我这里来吧。
And He answered them and said, O unbelieving generation! How long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him to Me.
9:20 他们就把孩子带到祂那里。灵看见耶稣，就立刻叫孩子重重的抽疯，倒在地上，翻来覆去，口中流沫。
And they brought him to Him. And when it saw Him, the spirit immediately convulsed him greatly, and falling on the earth, he rolled about, foaming at the mouth.
9:21 耶稣问他父亲说，他生这病有多久了？他说，从幼年的时候。
And He questioned his father, How long has this been happening to him? And he said, From childhood.
9:22 灵屡次把他扔在火里、水里，要除灭他。你若能作什么，求你帮助我们，怜悯我们。
And it has often thrown him both into fire and into water to destroy him. But if You can do anything, have compassion on us and help us.
9:23 耶稣对他说，你说“你若能”─在信的人凡事都能。
And Jesus said to him, You say, If You can. All things are possible to him who believes.
9:24 孩子的父亲立即喊着说，我信；我的不信，求你帮助。
Immediately, crying out, the father of the child said, I believe; help my unbelief!
9:25 耶稣看见群众都跑上来，就斥责那污灵，说，聋哑的灵，我命令你从他里面出来，再不要进去。
And Jesus, seeing that a crowd was running together toward them, rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, Dumb and deaf spirit, I order you, come out of him
and enter into him no more.
9:26 灵就喊叫，使孩子大大的抽疯，就出来了。孩子好像死了一样，以致众人多半说，他死了。
And after crying out and convulsing him terribly, it came out. And he became as though he were dead so that many said that he died.
9:27 但耶稣拉着他的手，扶他起来，他就站起来了。
But Jesus took hold of his hand and raised him, and he stood up.
9:28 耶稣进了屋子，门徒暗暗的问祂说，我们为什么不能赶出它去？
And when He entered into the house, His disciples questioned Him privately, Why were we not able to cast it out?
9:29 耶稣说，非用祷告，这一类的灵总不能出来。
And He said to them, This kind cannot come out by any means except prayer.
9:30 他们离开那里，经过加利利，耶稣不愿意人知道；
And they went out from there and passed through Galilee, and He did not want anyone to know about it,
9:31 因为祂教训门徒，说，人子将要被交在人手里，他们要杀害祂；被杀以后，过三天祂要复活。
For He was teaching His disciples. And He said to them, The Son of Man is being delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill Him; and when He has been
killed, after three days He will rise.
9:32 门徒却不明白这话，又不敢问祂。
But they did not understand this saying and were afraid to question Him.
9:33 他们来到迦百农。耶稣在屋子里问门徒说，你们在路上争论什么？
And they came to Capernaum. And when He was in the house, He questioned them, What were you reasoning about on the way?
9:34 门徒不作声，因为他们在路上彼此争论谁为大。
And they were silent, for they had argued with one another on the way about who was greater.
9:35 耶稣坐下，叫十二个门徒来，对他们说，若有人想要作首先的，他必作众人末后的，作众人的仆役。
And He sat down and called the twelve and said to them, If anyone wants to be first, he shall be the last of all and the servant of all.
9:36 于是领过一个小孩子来，叫他站在他们中间，又抱起他来，对他们说，
And He took a little child and set him in their midst; and taking him into His arms, He said to them,
9:37 凡因我的名接待一个这样小孩子的，就是接待我；凡接待我的，不是接待我，乃是接待那差我来的。
Whoever receives one of such little children because of My name, receives Me; and whoever receives Me, receives not Me but Him who sent Me.
9:38 约翰对耶稣说，夫子，我们看见一个人在你的名里赶鬼，我们就禁止他，因为他不跟从我们。
John said to Him, Teacher, we saw someone casting out demons in Your name, and we forbade him because he does not follow us.
9:39 耶稣说，不要禁止他，因为没有人在我的名里行异能，反倒能轻易毁谤我。
But Jesus said, Do not forbid him, for there is no one who will do a work of power in My name and be able soon to speak evil of Me.
9:40 不抵挡我们的，就是帮助我们的。
For he who is not against us is for us.
9:41 凡因你们名为属基督的，给你们一杯水喝的，我实在告诉你们，他绝不会失去他的赏赐。
For whoever gives you a cup of water to drink because you bear the name that you are Christ's, truly I say to you that he shall by no means lose his reward.
9:42 凡绊跌一个信入我的小子的，倒不如把大磨石套在他的脖子上，把他扔在海里。
And whoever stumbles one of these little ones who believe into Me, it is better for him if a great millstone is placed around his neck and he is thrown into the sea.
9:43 若是你的手绊跌你，就把它砍下来；你残废进入生命，比有两只手往火坑去，进入那不灭的火里更好。
And if your hand stumbles you, cut it off; it is better for you to enter into life maimed than to have two hands and go away into Gehenna, into unquenchable fire.
9:44 见 44 注 1。
See note 44.
9:45 若是你一只脚绊跌你，就把它砍下来；你瘸腿进入生命，比有两只脚被扔在火坑里更好。
And if your foot stumbles you, cut it off; it is better for you to enter into life lame than to have two feet and be thrown into Gehenna.
9:46 见 46 注 1。
See note 46.
9:47 若是你一只眼绊跌你，就去掉它；你只有一只眼进入神的国，比有两只眼被扔在火坑里更好。
And if your eye stumbles you, cast it out; it is better for you to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye than to have two eyes and be thrown into Gehenna,
9:48 在那里虫是不死的，火是不灭的。
Where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched.
9:49 因为必用火腌各人。
For everyone shall be salted with fire.
9:50 盐本是好的，若失了味，可用什么叫它再咸？你们里面要有盐，并要和平相处。
Salt is good, but if the salt becomes unsalty, with what will you restore its saltiness? Have salt in yourselves and be at peace with one another.
马可福音 Mark 第 10 章
10:1 耶稣从那里起身，来到犹太境内，并约但河外；群众又聚集到祂那里，祂又照常教训他们。
And He rose up from there and came into the borders of Judea and beyond the Jordan; and again crowds came together to Him, and as He was accustomed,
again He taught them.
10:2 有法利赛人进前来问祂说，人休妻可以不可以？为的是要试诱祂。
And some Pharisees came and asked Him whether it was lawful for a man to divorce a wife, so as to tempt Him.
10:3 祂回答说，摩西吩咐你们的是什么？
And He answered and said to them, What did Moses command you?
10:4 他们说，摩西准人写了休书，便可以休妻。
And they said, Moses allowed us to write a certificate of divorce and divorce her.
10:5 耶稣说，摩西因为你们的心硬，才写这条诫命给你们。
And Jesus said to them, Because of your hardness of heart he wrote this commandment for you.
10:6 但从创造之初，神造人是造男造女。
But from the beginning of creation, He made them male and female.
10:7 为这缘故，人要离开父母，与妻子联合，二人成为一体；
For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother and shall be joined to his wife;
10:8 这样，他们不再是两个，乃是一个肉身了。
And the two shall be one flesh. So then they are no longer two, but one flesh.
10:9 所以神所配偶的，人不可分开。
Therefore what God has yoked together, let man not separate.
10:10 到了屋里，门徒又问祂这事。
And in the house the disciples questioned Him again concerning this.
10:11 祂对他们说，凡休妻另娶的，就是犯奸淫辜负妻子。
And He said to them, Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her.
10:12 妻子若离弃丈夫另嫁，也是犯奸淫。
And if she divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery.
10:13 有人带着小孩子到耶稣那里，要祂摸他们，门徒却责备那些人。
And they brought little children to Him so that He might touch them, but the disciples rebuked them.
10:14 耶稣看见就恼怒，对门徒说，让小孩子到我这里来，不要禁止他们，因为神的国正是这等人的。
But Jesus, seeing it, was indignant and said to them, Allow the little children to come to Me. Do not forbid them, for of such is the kingdom of God.
10:15 我实在告诉你们，凡不像小孩子一样接受神国的，绝不能进去。
Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a little child shall by no means enter into it.
10:16 于是抱着小孩子，给他们按手，为他们热切的祝福。
And taking them into His arms, He fervently blessed them, laying His hands on them.
10:17 耶稣出来行路的时候，有一个人跑来，跪在祂面前，问祂说，良善的夫子，我该作什么，才可以承受永远的生命？
And as He went out into the road, someone ran to Him and kneeling before Him asked Him, Good Teacher, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?
10:18 耶稣对他说，你为什么称我是良善的？除了神一位以外，再没有良善的。
And Jesus said to him, Why do you call Me good? No one is good except One -- God.
10:19 诫命你是晓得的：“不可杀人，不可奸淫，不可偷盗，不可作假见证，不可亏负人，当孝敬父母。”
You know the commandments: "Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not bear false witness, do not defraud, honor your father and mother.''
10:20 他对耶稣说，夫子，这一切我从小都遵守了。
And he said to Him, Teacher, all these things I have kept from my youth.
10:21 耶稣看着他，就爱他，对他说，你还缺少一件：去变卖你所有的，分给穷人，就必有财宝在天上，你还要来跟从我。
And Jesus, looking upon him, was moved with love for him and said to him, One thing you lack: go; the things you have, sell and give to the poor, and you will
have treasure in heaven; and come, follow Me.
10:22 他因着这话，就面显愁容，忧忧郁郁的走了，因为他有很多产业。
And at the word his countenance fell, and he went away sorrowing, for he had many possessions.
10:23 耶稣周围一看，对门徒说，有钱财的人要进神的国，是何等的难！
And Jesus, looking around, said to His disciples, How difficult it will be for those who have riches to enter into the kingdom of God!
10:24 门徒就希奇祂的话。耶稣又对他们说，孩子们，倚靠钱财的人进神的国，是何等的难！
And the disciples were amazed at His words. But Jesus again answered and said to them, Children, how difficult it is for those who trust in riches to enter into the
kingdom of God!
10:25 骆驼穿过针的眼，比财主进神的国还容易。
It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
10:26 他们就分外惊讶，彼此说，这样谁能得救？
But they were astonished beyond measure and said among themselves, Then who can be saved?
10:27 耶稣看着他们说，在人是不能的，在神却不然，因为在神凡事都能。
Looking upon them, Jesus said, With men it is impossible, but not with God, for all things are possible with God.
10:28 彼得就对祂说，看哪，我们已经撇下所有的跟从了你。
Peter began to say to Him, Behold, we have left all and followed You.
10:29 耶稣说，我实在告诉你们，人为我和福音，撇下房屋、或是弟兄、姊妹、母亲、父亲、儿女、田地，
Jesus said, Truly I say to you, There is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for My sake and for the gospel's
sake,
10:30 没有不在今世得百倍，就是房屋、弟兄、姊妹、母亲、儿女和田地，同各样的逼迫，且要在来世得永远生命的。
But that he shall receive a hundred times as much now at this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and fields, with persecutions, and
in the coming age, eternal life.
10:31 然而许多在前的将要在后，在后的将要在前。
But many first will be last, and the last first.
10:32 他们行路上耶路撒冷去，耶稣在他们前头走，他们就希奇，跟从的人也害怕。祂又把十二个门徒带到一边，把自己将要遭遇的事，告诉他们说，
Now they were on the road, going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus led the way before them. And they were amazed, and those who followed were afraid. And He
took the twelve aside again and began to tell them the things that were about to happen to Him:
10:33 看哪，我们上耶路撒冷去，人子要被交给祭司长和经学家，他们要定祂死罪，又要把祂交给外邦人，
Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and to the scribes. And they will condemn Him to death and
deliver Him to the Gentiles,
10:34 他们要戏弄祂，向祂吐唾沫，鞭打祂，杀害祂，过了三天，祂必复活。
And they will mock Him and spit at Him and scourge Him, and they will kill Him. And after three days He will rise.
10:35 西庇太的儿子雅各和约翰到耶稣跟前来，对祂说，夫子，我们无论向你求什么，愿你给我们作。
And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came to Him, saying to Him, Teacher, we want You to do for us whatever we ask You.
10:36 祂说，要我为你们作什么？
And He said to them, What do you want Me to do for you?
10:37 他们说，赐我们在你的荣耀里，一个坐在你右边，一个坐在你左边。
And they said to Him, Grant to us to sit, one on Your right and one on Your left, in Your glory.
10:38 耶稣说，你们不知道所求的是什么。我所喝的杯，你们能喝么？我所受的浸，你们能受么？
But Jesus said to them, You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup which I drink, or to be baptized with the baptism with which I am
baptized?
10:39 他们说，我们能。耶稣说，我所喝的杯，你们必要喝；我所受的浸，你们必要受。
And they said to Him, We are able. And Jesus said to them, The cup which I drink you shall drink, and with the baptism with which I am baptized, you shall be
baptized.
10:40 只是坐在我的左右，不是我可以赐的，乃是为谁预备的，就赐给谁。
But to sit on My right or on My left is not Mine to give, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared.
10:41 那十个听见，就开始恼怒雅各和约翰。
And when the ten heard this, they began to be indignant concerning James and John.
10:42 耶稣叫他们来，对他们说，你们知道外邦人有尊为君王的，为主治理他们，也有大臣操权管辖他们。
And Jesus called them to Him and said to them, You know that those who are esteemed as rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise
authority over them.
10:43 但你们中间不是这样；反倒你们中间无论谁想要为大，就必作你们的仆役；
But it is not so among you; but whoever wants to become great among you shall be your servant,
10:44 你们中间无论谁想要为首，就必作众人的奴仆。
And whoever wants to be first among you shall be the slave of all.
10:45 因为人子来，不是要受人的服事，乃是要服事人，并且要舍命，作多人的赎价。
For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give His life as a ransom for many.
10:46 他们到了耶利哥；耶稣同门徒并大批的群众，出耶利哥的时候，有一个讨饭的瞎子，是底买的儿子巴底买，坐在路旁。
And they came to Jericho. And as He was going out from Jericho, as well as His disciples and a large crowd, the son of Timaeus, Bartimaeus, a blind beggar, sat
by the road.
10:47 他听见是拿撒勒人耶稣，就喊着说，大卫的子孙耶稣，可怜我吧！
And when he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!
10:48 有许多人责备他，叫他安静，他却越发喊着：大卫的子孙，可怜我吧！
And many rebuked him so that he would be silent, but he cried out much more, Son of David, have mercy on me!
10:49 耶稣就站住，说，叫过他来。他们就叫那瞎子，对他说，放心，起来，祂叫你了。
And Jesus, standing still, said, Call him here. And they called the blind man, saying to him, Take courage. Rise. He is calling you.
10:50 瞎子就丢下衣服，跳起来，走到耶稣那里。
And throwing his garment aside, he leaped up and came to Jesus.
10:51 耶稣说，你要我为你作什么？瞎子说，拉波尼，我要能看见。
And Jesus answered him and said, What do you want Me to do for you? And the blind man said to Him, Rabboni, that I may receive my sight!
10:52 耶稣说，去吧，你的信救了你。他立刻看见了，就在路上跟随耶稣。
And Jesus said to him, Go; your faith has healed you. And immediately he received his sight and followed Him on the road.
马可福音 Mark 第 11 章
11:1 耶稣和门徒将近耶路撒冷，到了伯法其和伯大尼，在橄榄山那里，耶稣就打发两个门徒，
And when they drew near to Jerusalem, at Bethphage and Bethany, at the Mount of Olives, He sent two of His disciples,
11:2 对他们说，你们往对面村子去，一进去，就必看见一匹驴驹拴在那里，是从来没有人骑过的，把它解开牵来。
And said to them, Go into the village opposite you, and immediately upon entering into it, you will find a colt tied, on which no man has yet sat; untie it and bring
it.
11:3 若有人对你们说，为什么作这事？你们就说，主需要它，祂必立刻把它送回这里。
And if anyone says to you, Why are you doing this? say, The Lord has need of it and will immediately send it here again.
11:4 他们去了，便看见一匹驴驹拴在门外大街上，就把它解开。
And they went away and found a colt tied by a door, outside on the street, and they untied it.
11:5 在那里站着的人，有几个对他们说，你们解驴驹作什么？
And some of the ones standing there said to them, What are you doing untying the colt?
11:6 门徒照着耶稣所说的告诉他们，那些人就让他们牵去了。
And they spoke to them even as Jesus had said. And they let them do it.
11:7 他们把驴驹牵到耶稣那里，把自己的衣服搭在上面，耶稣就骑上。
And they brought the colt to Jesus and threw their garments on it, and He sat on it.
11:8 有许多人把衣服铺在路上，另有人从田间砍下满带嫩叶的树枝，一层一层的铺在路上。
And many spread their garments in the road, and others spread layers of branches full of tender leaves, having cut them out of the fields.
11:9 前行后随的人喊着说，和散那！在主名里来的，是当受颂赞的！
And those who went before and those who followed cried out, Hosanna! Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord!
11:10 那将要来的我们祖宗大卫的国，是当受颂赞的！至高之处的和散那！
Blessed is the coming kingdom of our father David! Hosanna in the highest!
11:11 耶稣进了耶路撒冷，入了殿，周围看了各样物件；时候已晚，就和十二个门徒出城，往伯大尼去。
And He entered into Jerusalem, into the temple; and when He had looked around at all things, since the hour was already late, He went out to Bethany with the
twelve.
11:12 第二天，他们从伯大尼出来，耶稣饿了。
And on the next day, when they had gone out from Bethany, He became hungry.
11:13 远远的看见一棵无花果树，树上有叶子，就走过去，或者在树上可以找着什么；到了树下，除了叶子以外，什么也找不着，因为不是收无花果的时节。
And seeing at a distance a fig tree having leaves, He came to see if perhaps He would find anything on it. And when He came to it, He found nothing except
leaves, for it was not the season for figs.
11:14 耶稣就对树说，不再有人吃你的果子，直到永远。祂的门徒也听见了。
And He answered and said to it, May no one eat fruit from you forever! And His disciples heard it.
11:15 他们来到耶路撒冷。耶稣进了殿，就赶出殿里作买卖的人，推倒兑换银钱之人的桌子，和卖鸽子之人的凳子；
And they came to Jerusalem. And He entered into the temple and began to cast out those who were selling and those who were buying in the temple, and He
overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who were selling the doves;
11:16 也不许任何人拿着器皿从殿里经过。
And He would not let anyone carry a vessel through the temple.
11:17 祂便教训他们说，经上不是记着，“我的殿必称为万国祷告的殿”么？你们倒使它成为贼窝了。
And He taught and said to them, Is it not written, "My house shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations''? But you have made it a den of robbers.
11:18 祭司长和经学家听见，就设法怎样除灭耶稣，却又怕祂，因为群众都惊讶祂的教训。
And the chief priests and the scribes heard this, and they sought how they might destroy Him, for they feared Him, for all the crowd was astounded at His
teaching.
11:19 每到晚上，他们就出城去。
And every day when evening fell, they went outside the city.
11:20 早晨，他们从那里经过，看见那无花果树连根都枯干了。
And as they passed by in the morning, they saw the fig tree withered from the roots.
11:21 彼得想起来，就对祂说，拉比，请看，你所咒诅的无花果树，已经枯干了。
And Peter remembered and said to Him, Rabbi, behold, the fig tree which You cursed has withered.
11:22 耶稣回答说，你们要信神。
And Jesus answered and said to them, Have faith in God.
11:23 我实在告诉你们，无论谁对这座山说，你得挪开，投在海里，他若心里不疑惑，只信他所说的成了，就必给他成了。
Truly I say to you that whoever says to this mountain, Be taken up and cast into the sea, and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says happens,
he will have it.
11:24 所以我告诉你们，凡你们祷告祈求的，无论是什么，只要信已经得着了，就必得着。
For this reason I say to you, All things that you pray and ask, believe that you have received them, and you will have them.
11:25 你们站着祷告的时候，若向什么人怀怨，要赦免他，好叫你们在诸天之上的父，也赦免你们的过犯。
And when you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything against anyone, so that your Father who is in the heavens may also forgive you your offenses.
11:26 你们若不赦免人，你们在诸天之上的父，也不赦免你们的过犯。
But if you do not forgive, neither will your Father who is in the heavens forgive your offenses.
11:27 他们又来到耶路撒冷。耶稣在殿里行走的时候，祭司长、经学家和长老来到祂那里，
And they came again to Jerusalem. And as He was walking in the temple, the chief priests and the scribes and the elders came to Him,
11:28 对祂说，你仗着什么权柄作这些事？谁给你这权柄作这些事？
And said to Him, By what authority do You do these things, or who gave You this authority to do these things?
11:29 耶稣对他们说，我要问你们一句话，你们回答我，我就告诉你们，我仗着什么权柄作这些事。
And Jesus said to them, I will question you about one thing; answer Me and I will tell you by what authority I do these things.
11:30 约翰的浸，是从天上来的，还是从人来的？你们回答我。
The baptism of John, was it from heaven or from men? Answer Me.
11:31 他们彼此议论说，我们若是说从天上来的，祂必说，这样，你们为什么不信他？
And they reasoned with one another saying, If we say, From heaven, He will say, Why then did you not believe him?
11:32 我们要是说从人来的─他们又怕群众，因为众人真以约翰为申言者。
But should we say, From men? -- they feared the crowd, for all held that John was really a prophet.
11:33 于是他们回答耶稣说，我们不知道。耶稣便对他们说，我也不告诉你们，我仗着什么权柄作这些事。
And they answered Jesus and said, We do not know. And Jesus said to them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.
马可福音 Mark 第 12 章
12:1 耶稣就用比喻对他们说，有人栽了一个葡萄园，四周围上篱笆，挖了一个压酒池，盖了一座楼，租给园户，就往外国去了。
And He began to speak to them in parables: A man planted a vineyard and put a hedge around it and dug a vat for a winepress and built a tower; and he
leased it out to vinedressers and went abroad.
12:2 到了时候，打发一个奴仆到园户那里，要从园户收葡萄园的果子。
And he sent a slave to the vinedressers at the proper time so that from the vinedressers he might take of the fruit of the vineyard.
12:3 园户拿住他，打了他，叫他空手回去。
And they took him and beat him and sent him away empty-handed.
12:4 园主再打发另一个奴仆到他们那里，他们打伤他的头，并且凌辱他。
And again he sent to them another slave; and that one they struck on the head and dishonored.
12:5 园主又打发另一个去，他们就杀了他。后来又打发好些奴仆去，有的他们打了，有的他们杀了。
And he sent another, and that one they killed; and so with many others, beating some and killing others.
12:6 园主还有一位，是他的爱子；末后就打发他到他们那里去，心里说，他们必尊敬我的儿子。
He had yet one, a beloved son; he sent him to them last, saying, They will respect my son.
12:7 不料，那些园户彼此说，这是承受产业的；来吧，我们杀了他，产业就归我们了。
But those vinedressers said to one another, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours!
12:8 于是拿住他，杀了他，把他扔在葡萄园外。
And they took him and killed him and threw him out of the vineyard.
12:9 这样，葡萄园的主人要怎么办？他要来除灭那些园户，将葡萄园租给别人。
What then will the master of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the vinedressers and will give the vineyard to others.
12:10 “匠人所弃的石头，已成了房角的头块石头；
Have you not even read this Scripture, "The stone which the builders rejected, this has become the head of the corner.
12:11 这是主所作的，在我们眼中看为希奇。”连这经你们也没有念过么？
This was from the Lord, and it is marvelous in our eyes''?
12:12 他们看出这比喻是指着他们说的，就想要捉拿祂，只是惧怕群众，于是离开祂走了。
And they sought to seize Him, yet they feared the crowd, for they perceived that it was with them in view that He spoke the parable. And leaving Him, they went
away.
12:13 后来，他们打发几个法利赛人和几个希律党的人，到耶稣那里，要就着祂的话陷害祂。
And they sent to Him some of the Pharisees and Herodians that they might catch Him in His speech.
12:14 他们来了，就对祂说，夫子，我们知道你是诚实的，什么人你都不顾忌，因为你不看人的外貌，乃是诚诚实实教导神的道路。纳税给该撒，可以不
可以？我们该纳不该纳？
And they came and said to Him, Teacher, we know that You are true and do not fear anyone, for You do not regard the person of men, but teach the way of God
in truth. Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar, or not? Should we give, or should we not give?
12:15 耶稣知道他们的假意，就对他们说，你们为什么试诱我？拿一个银币给我看。
But He, knowing their hypocrisy, said to them, Why do you tempt Me? Bring Me a denarius that I may look at it.
12:16 他们就拿了来。耶稣说，这像和这号是谁的？他们说，是该撒的。
And they brought one. And He said to them, Whose is this image and inscription? And they said to Him, Caesar's.
12:17 耶稣说，把该撒的物归给该撒，把神的物归给神。他们就对祂非常希奇。
And Jesus said to them, The things that are Caesar's render to Caesar, and the things that are God's to God. And they marveled greatly at Him.
12:18 那些说没有复活的撒都该人，来到耶稣那里，问祂说，
And some Sadducees came to Him, who say that there is no resurrection, and they questioned Him, saying,
12:19 夫子，摩西为我们写着说，人的哥哥若死了，撇下妻子，没有留下孩子，他兄弟当娶他的妻子，为哥哥立后。
Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if anyone's brother dies and leaves a wife behind and leaves no child, his brother should take the wife and raise up seed to his
brother.
12:20 有兄弟七人，第一个娶了妻，死了，没有留下后裔；
There were seven brothers. And the first took a wife, and when he died, he left no seed;
12:21 第二个娶了她，也死了，没有留下后裔；第三个也是这样；
And the second took her and died, leaving behind no seed; and the third similarly;
12:22 那七个人都没有留下后裔。末了，那妇人也死了。
And the seven left no seed. Last of all the woman also died.
12:23 在复活的时候，他们都复活了，那时她是那一个的妻子？因为他们七个都娶过她。
In the resurrection, when they rise, whose wife will she be? For the seven had her as wife.
12:24 耶稣对他们说，你们错了，岂不是因为不明白圣经，也不晓得神的大能么？
Jesus said to them, Is it not because of this that you err, that you do not know the Scriptures nor the power of God?
12:25 人从死人中复活的时候，也不娶也不嫁，乃像诸天之上的使者一样。
For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in the heavens.
12:26 关于死人复活，神在摩西书中荆棘篇上怎样对他说，“我是亚伯拉罕的神，以撒的神，雅各的神，”你们没有念过么？
But concerning the dead, that they are raised, have you not read in the book of Moses, in the section concerning the bush, how God spoke to him, saying, "I am
the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob''?
12:27 神不是死人的神，乃是活人的神。你们是大错了。
He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. You err greatly.
12:28 有一个经学家进前来，听见他们辩论，晓得耶稣回答得好，就问祂说，诫命中那一条是第一？
And one of the scribes approached and heard them disputing; and perceiving that He answered them well, he questioned Him, Which is the first commandment
of all?
12:29 耶稣回答说，第一是，“以色列阿，你要听，主我们的神，是独一的主。
Jesus answered, The first is: "Hear, Israel: the Lord our God is one Lord;
12:30 你要全心、全魂、全心思并全力，爱主你的神。”
And you shall love the Lord your God from your whole heart and from your whole soul and from your whole mind and from your whole strength.''
12:31 其次，“要爱邻舍如同自己。”再没有别的诫命比这两条更大的了。
The second is this: "You shall love your neighbor as yourself.'' There is no other commandment greater than these.
12:32 那经学家对祂说，夫子，不错，你说的是真实的，神只有一位，除了祂以外，再没有别神；
And the scribe said to Him, Well said, Teacher; in truth You have said that He is one and there is not another besides Him;
12:33 并且全心、全悟性并全力爱祂，又爱邻舍如同自己，就比一切的燔祭，和各样的祭物好得多。
And to love Him from the whole heart and from the whole understanding and from the whole strength and to love one's neighbor as himself is much more than
all the burnt offerings and sacrifices.
12:34 耶稣见他回答得有智慧，就对他说，你离神的国不远了。于是再没有人敢问祂什么。
And Jesus, seeing that he answered intelligently, said to him, You are not far from the kingdom of God. And no one dared to question Him anymore.
12:35 耶稣在殿里施教，说，经学家怎么说，基督是大卫的子孙？
And Jesus, while He was teaching in the temple, answered and said, How is it that the scribes say that the Christ is the son of David?
12:36 大卫自己在圣灵里说，“主对我主说，你坐在我的右边，等我把你的仇敌，放在你的脚下。”
David himself said in the Holy Spirit, "The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at My right hand until I put Your enemies underneath Your feet.''
12:37 大卫自己既称祂为主，祂怎么又是大卫的子孙？大批的群众都喜欢听祂。
David himself calls Him Lord, and how is He his son? And the great crowd heard Him gladly.
12:38 耶稣在教训之间说，你们要提防经学家，他们好穿长袍游行，喜爱人在市场上问他们安，
And in His teaching He said, Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes, and like greetings in the marketplaces
12:39 又喜爱会堂里的高位，筵席上的首座；
And chief seats in the synagogues and places of honor at the dinners,
12:40 他们侵吞寡妇的家产，假意作很长的祷告。这些人要受更重的刑罚。
Who devour the widows' houses, and for a pretense make long prayers. These shall receive greater judgment.
12:41 耶稣对着银库坐着，看群众怎样投钱入库。有好些财主，投进了许多钱。
And He sat down opposite the treasury and watched how the crowd cast money into the treasury. And many rich people cast in much.
12:42 有一个穷寡妇来，投了两个小钱，就是一个大钱。
And one poor widow came and cast in two lepta, which is a quadrans.
12:43 耶稣便叫门徒来，对他们说，我实在告诉你们，这穷寡妇投入库里的，比众人所投的更多。
And He called His disciples to Him and said to them, Truly I say to you that this poor widow has cast in more than all those who were casting into the treasury,
12:44 因为他们都是从自己的富余中把一些投上，但这寡妇是从自己的缺乏中，把她一切所有的，就是她一切养生的，都投上了。
For they all cast in out of their surplus, but she, out of her lack, has cast in all that she had, her whole living.
马可福音 Mark 第 13 章
13:1 耶稣从殿里出来的时候，有一个门徒对祂说，夫子，请看，何等的石头，何等的建筑！
And as He was going out of the temple, one of His disciples said to Him, Teacher, behold, what wonderful stones and what wonderful buildings!
13:2 耶稣对他说，你看见这些伟大的建筑么？将来绝没有一块石头留在石头上，不被拆毁的。
And Jesus said to him, Do you see these great buildings? There shall by no means be left here a stone upon a stone which shall not be thrown down.
13:3 耶稣在橄榄山上对着殿坐着，彼得、雅各、约翰和安得烈，暗暗的问祂说，
And as He sat on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked Him privately,
13:4 请告诉我们，什么时候会有这些事？这一切事将要成就的时候，有什么兆头？
Tell us, when will these things be? And what will be the sign when all these things are about to be accomplished?
13:5 耶稣对他们说，你们要谨慎，免得有人迷惑你们。
And Jesus began to say to them, See that no one leads you astray.
13:6 将来要有许多人冒我的名来，说，我是基督，并且要迷惑许多人。
Many will come in My name, saying, I am the Christ! and will lead many astray.
13:7 你们听见打仗和打仗的风声，不要惊慌；这是必须发生的，只是末期还没有到。
And when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be alarmed; it must happen, but the end is not yet.
13:8 民要起来攻打民，国要起来攻打国，多处必有地震、饥荒。这些都是产难的开始。
For nation will rise up against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; there will be earthquakes in various places; there will be famines. These things are the
beginning of birth pangs.
13:9 但你们要自己谨慎。人要把你们交给议会，并且你们要在会堂里受鞭打，又要为我的缘故，站在官长和君王面前，对他们作见证。
But you, take heed to yourselves. They will deliver you to sanhedrins, and in the synagogues you will be beaten, and before governors and kings you will stand
for My sake, for a testimony to them.
13:10 然而福音必须先传给万民。
Yet the gospel must first be proclaimed to all the nations.
13:11 人把你们拉去交给人的时候，不要预先忧虑要说什么，只是在那时刻赐给你们什么话，你们就说什么，因为说话的不是你们，乃是圣灵。
And when they lead you away and deliver you up, do not be anxious beforehand about what you should speak, but whatever is given to you in that hour, speak
that; for it is not you who are speaking, but the Holy Spirit.
13:12 弟兄要把弟兄，父亲要把儿女，交到死地；儿女要起来与父母为敌，害死他们；
And brother will deliver up brother to death, and a father his child; and children will rise up against their parents and put them to death.
13:13 你们还要因我的名，被众人恨恶；惟有忍耐到底的，必然得救。
And you will be hated by all on account of My name. But he who has endured to the end, this one shall be saved.
13:14 你们看见那行毁坏的可憎之物，站在不当站的地方，（读这经的人需要会意，）那时，在犹太的，要逃到山上；
But when you see the abomination of desolation standing where it should not (let him who reads understand), then let those in Judea flee to the mountains;
13:15 在房顶上的，不要下来，也不要进去拿家里的东西；
And let him who is on the housetop not come down, nor enter in, to take anything out of his house;
13:16 在田地里的，也不要回去取衣服。
And let him who is in the field not turn back to take his garment.
13:17 当那些日子，怀孕的和乳养孩子的有祸了。
But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babies in those days.
13:18 你们要祷告，叫这事不在冬天发生；
And pray that it may not happen in winter,
13:19 因为那些日子必有灾难，这样的灾难，就是从神创造万物的起头，直到如今，都未曾发生过，将来也绝不会发生。
For those days will be a time of tribulation such as has not occurred from the beginning of the creation which God created until now, nor shall by any means ever
occur.
13:20 若不是主削减了那些日子，凡属肉体的人，没有一个会得救的；但因祂所拣选的选民，祂将那些日子削减了。
And unless the Lord had shortened the days, no flesh would be saved; but on account of the chosen, whom He chose, He shortened the days.
13:21 那时，若有人对你们说，看哪，基督在这里！看哪，基督在那里！你们不要信。
And then if anyone says to you, Behold, here is the Christ! Behold, there! do not believe it.
13:22 因为假基督和假申言者将要起来，显神迹奇事，若是可能，连选民也要迷惑了。
For false Christs and false prophets will arise and will show signs and wonders to deceive, if possible, the chosen.
13:23 你们却要谨慎；凡事我都预先告诉你们了。
But you, beware; I have told you all things beforehand.
13:24 在那些日子，那灾难以后，日头要变黑，月亮也不放光，
But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light,
13:25 众星要从天上坠落，天势都要震动。
And the stars will be falling out of heaven, and the powers in the heavens will be shaken.
13:26 那时，他们要看见人子，带着大能力和大荣耀，在云中来临。
And then they will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds with great power and glory.
13:27 那时，祂要差遣天使，将祂的选民从四方，从地极直到天边，都聚集了来。
And then He will send the angels, and He will gather together His chosen from the four winds, from the end of the earth to the end of heaven.
13:28 但是你们可以从无花果树学个比方：当树枝发嫩长叶的时候，你们就知道夏天近了；
But learn the parable from the fig tree: as soon as its branch has become tender and puts forth its leaves, you know that the summer is near.
13:29 照样，你们几时看见这些事发生，也该知道那夏天近了，正在门口了。
So also you, when you see these things happening, know that it is near, at the doors.
13:30 我实在告诉你们，这一代还没有过去，这一切事都要发生。
Truly I say to you that this generation shall by no means pass away until all these things happen.
13:31 天地要过去，我的话却不能过去。
Heaven and earth will pass away, but My words shall by no means pass away.
13:32 至于那日子、那时辰，没有人知道，天上的使者也不知道，子也不知道，惟独父知道。
But concerning that day or hour, no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but the Father.
13:33 你们要谨慎，要有警觉，因为你们不知道那时期几时来到。
Beware, be alert; for you do not know when the time is.
13:34 这事正如一个人往外国去，离开本家，把权柄交给他的奴仆，分派各人的工作，又吩咐看门的要儆醒。
It is like a man who is about to go abroad, having left his house and given to his slaves authority, to each his work, and who commanded the doorkeeper to
watch.
13:35 所以你们要儆醒，因为你们不知道家主什么时候来，或晚上，或半夜，或鸡叫，或早晨。
Watch therefore, for you do not know when the Master of the house comes, whether in the evening or at midnight or at cockcrowing or in the morning;
13:36 恐怕他忽然来到，看见你们睡着了。
Lest He come suddenly and find you sleeping.
13:37 我对你们所说的，也是对众人说，要儆醒。
And what I say to you, I say to all: Watch!
马可福音 Mark 第 14 章
14:1 过两天是逾越节和除酵节。祭司长和经学家，设法怎样用诡计拿住耶稣，把祂杀了，
Now the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread were two days away. And the chief priests and the scribes were seeking a way to seize Him by craftiness
and kill Him,
14:2 只是他们说，在节期中不可，恐怕百姓生乱。
For they said, Not at the feast, lest there be a tumult by the people.
14:3 耶稣在伯大尼患痲疯的西门家里坐席的时候，有一个女人，拿着一玉瓶至贵的真哪哒香膏来，打破玉瓶，把膏浇在祂的头上。
And while He was in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as He reclined at table, a woman came, having an alabaster flask of ointment, of very costly pure
nard, and she broke the alabaster flask and poured it over His head.
14:4 但有几个人恼怒着彼此说，何必这样枉费香膏？
But there were some who were indignantly commenting among themselves: Why has this waste of the ointment been made?
14:5 这香膏可以卖三百多银币，分给穷人。他们就向她怒气冲冲。
For this ointment could have been sold for over three hundred denarii and given to the poor. And they were infuriated with her.
14:6 但耶稣说，由她罢！你们为什么难为她？她在我身上作的，是一件美事。
But Jesus said, Leave her alone. Why do you trouble her? She has done a noble deed on Me.
14:7 因为常有穷人和你们同在，要向他们行善，随时都可以，只是你们不常有我。
For you always have the poor with you, and whenever you want, you can do good for them. But you do not always have Me.
14:8 她作了她所能的；她是为我的安葬，预先膏我的身体。
She has done what she could; she has anointed My body beforehand for the burial.
14:9 我实在告诉你们，普天之下，无论在什么地方传扬这福音，也要述说这女人所行的，作为对她的记念。
And truly I say to you, Wherever the gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what this woman has done shall also be told as a memorial of her.
14:10 十二个门徒中，有一个加略人犹大，出去见祭司长，要把耶稣交给他们。
And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went off to the chief priests to deliver Him up to them.
14:11 他们听见就欢喜，又应许给他银子。他就设法怎样趁机会把耶稣交出。
And when they heard this, they rejoiced and promised to give him money. And he sought a way to deliver Him up opportunely.
14:12 除酵节的第一天，就是宰逾越羊羔的那一天，门徒对耶稣说，你要我们去那里为你预备吃逾越节的筵席？
And on the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, when they sacrificed the passover, His disciples said to Him, Where do You want us to go and prepare so
that You may eat the passover?
14:13 祂就打发两个门徒，对他们说，你们进城去，必有人拿着一瓶水，迎面而来，你们要跟着他。
And He sent two of His disciples and said to them, Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you; follow him;
14:14 无论他进那里去，你们就对那家的主人说，夫子说，我的客房，就是我同门徒可以在那里吃逾越节筵席的地方在那里？
And wherever he enters, say to the master of the house, The Teacher says, Where is My guest room, where I may eat the passover with My disciples?
14:15 他必指给你们摆设整齐的一间大楼房，你们就在那里为我们预备。
And he will show you a large upper room, furnished and ready. And there prepare for us.
14:16 门徒出去，进了城，所遇见的，正如耶稣对他们所说的，他们就预备了逾越节的筵席。
And the disciples went out and came into the city and found it even as He had told them, and they prepared the passover.
14:17 到了晚上，耶稣和十二个门徒都来了。
And when evening fell, He came with the twelve.
14:18 他们坐席正吃的时候，耶稣说，我实在告诉你们，你们中间有一个与我同吃的人，要出卖我了。
And as they were reclining at table and eating, Jesus said, Truly I say to you that one of you will betray Me, one who is eating with Me.
14:19 他们就忧愁起来，一个一个的问祂说，是我么？
They began to be grieved and to say to Him one by one, Surely not I?
14:20 耶稣对他们说，是十二个门徒中，同我蘸手在盘子里的那个人。
And He said to them, It will be one of the twelve, one who dips with Me in the dish.
14:21 人子必要去世，正如经上指着祂所写的，但出卖人子的有祸了，那人不生下来倒好。
For the Son of Man is going away, even as it is written concerning Him, but woe to that man through whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been good
for that man if he had not been born.
14:22 他们吃的时候，耶稣拿起饼来，祝福了，就擘开，递给他们说，你们拿去，这是我的身体。
And as they were eating, He took bread and blessed it, and He broke it and gave it to them, and said, Take; this is My body.
14:23 又拿起杯来，祝谢了，递给他们，他们都喝了。
And He took a cup and gave thanks, and He gave it to them; and they all drank of it.
14:24 耶稣对他们说，这是我立约的血，为多人流出来的。
And He said to them, This is My blood of the covenant, which is being poured out for many.
14:25 我实在告诉你们，我绝不再喝这葡萄树的产品，直到我在神的国里，喝新的那日子。
Truly I say to you, I shall by no means drink of the product of the vine anymore until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.
14:26 他们唱了诗，就出来往橄榄山去。
And after singing a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
14:27 耶稣对他们说，你们都要绊跌，因为经上记着，“我要击打牧人，羊就分散了。”
And Jesus said to them, You will all be stumbled, because it is written, "I will smite the Shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.''
14:28 但我复活以后，要在你们以先往加利利去。
But after I have been raised, I will go before you into Galilee.
14:29 彼得对祂说，即使众人都绊跌，我却不然。
But Peter said to Him, Even if all will be stumbled, yet I will not!
14:30 耶稣对他说，我实在告诉你，就在今天夜里，鸡叫两遍以前，你要三次否认我。
And Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you that today in this night, before a rooster crows twice, you will deny Me three times.
14:31 彼得却极力的说，我就是必须和你同死，也绝不会否认你。众人也都这样说。
But he went on speaking more intensely, Even if I must die with You, I will by no means deny You! And they all said similarly.
14:32 他们来到一个地方，名叫客西马尼，耶稣对门徒说，你们坐在这里，等我祷告。
And they came to a place named Gethsemane, and He said to His disciples, Sit here while I pray.
14:33 于是带着彼得、雅各和约翰同去，就惊恐起来，极其难过，
And He took Peter and James and John with Him and began to be awestruck and deeply distressed.
14:34 对他们说，我的魂极其忧伤，几乎要死。你们留在这里，并要儆醒。
And He said to them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch.
14:35 祂就稍往前走，俯伏在地祷告，若是可能，便叫那时刻经过祂而离去。
And going forward a little, He fell on the ground and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour would pass from Him.
14:36 祂说，阿爸，父阿，在你凡事都能，求你将这杯从我撤去；然而不要照我的意思，只要照你的意思。
And He said, Abba Father, all things are possible to You; remove this cup from Me; yet not what I will, but what You will.
14:37 祂来，见他们睡着了，就对彼得说，西门，你睡觉么？不能儆醒片时么？
And He came and found them sleeping. And He said to Peter, Simon, are you sleeping? Were you not able to watch for one hour?
14:38 要儆醒祷告，免得入了试诱；你们的灵固然愿意，肉体却软弱了。
Watch and pray that you may not come into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.
14:39 祂又去祷告，说同样的话。
And going away again, He prayed, saying the same thing.
14:40 祂又来，见他们睡着了，因为他们的眼睛甚是困倦，他们也不知道该回答祂什么。
And coming again, He found them sleeping, for their eyes were very heavy. And they did not know what to answer Him.
14:41 祂第三次来，对他们说，现在你们还在睡觉安歇么？够了，时刻到了，看哪，人子要被交在罪人手里。
And He came the third time and said to them, Are you still sleeping and resting? It is enough. The hour has come; behold, the Son of Man is being delivered into
the hands of sinners.
14:42 起来，我们走吧。看哪，出卖我的人近了。
Arise, let us be going. Behold, the one betraying Me has drawn near.
14:43 耶稣还在说话的时候，那十二个门徒中的犹大立即来到，还有群众带着刀棒，从祭司长、经学家和长老那里，与他同来。
And immediately, while He was still speaking, Judas, one of the twelve, appeared, and with him a crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the
scribes and the elders.
14:44 那出卖耶稣的，曾给他们一个暗号，说，我和谁亲嘴，谁就是祂。你们把祂拿住，牢牢靠靠的带去。
Now the one who was betraying Him had given them a signal, saying, Whomever I kiss, He is the one. Seize Him and lead Him away securely.
14:45 犹大来了，随即到耶稣跟前来，说，拉比！就热切的和祂亲嘴。
And when he came, he immediately approached Him and said, Rabbi! and kissed Him affectionately.
14:46 他们便下手拿住祂。
And they laid hands on Him and seized Him.
14:47 旁边站着的人中，有一个拔出刀来，将大祭司的奴仆砍了一刀，削掉了他一个耳朵。
But a certain one of those standing by drew his sword and struck the slave of the high priest, and took off his ear.
14:48 耶稣对他们说，你们带着刀棒出来捉我，如同捉强盗么？
And Jesus answered and said to them, Have you come out as against a robber with swords and clubs to arrest Me?
14:49 我天天在殿里施教，同你们在一起，你们并没有捉拿我；但这是要应验经上的话。
Day after day I was with you in the temple teaching and you did not seize Me. But may the Scriptures be fulfilled.
14:50 门徒都离开祂逃走了。
And they all left Him and fled.
14:51 有一个青年人，赤身披着一块细麻布，跟随耶稣，众人就捉拿他，
And a certain young man was accompanying Him, clothed with a linen cloth over his naked body; and they seized him.
14:52 他却丢下细麻布，赤身逃走了。
But he left the linen cloth behind and fled naked.
14:53 他们把耶稣带到大祭司那里，众祭司长、长老和经学家，都来在一起。
And they led Jesus away to the high priest, and all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes came together.
14:54 彼得远远的跟着耶稣，一直进入大祭司的院子里，和差役一同坐在火光里烤火。
And Peter followed Him at a distance until he was within the courtyard of the high priest. And he was there sitting with the attendants and warming himself in the
light of the fire.
14:55 祭司长和全议会尽力寻找见证，控告耶稣，为要把祂治死，总是得不到。
Now the chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were seeking testimony against Jesus in order to put Him to death, and they could not find it.
14:56 因为有好些人作假见证告祂，只是那些见证各不相合。
For many gave false testimony against Him, yet the testimonies were not consistent.
14:57 又有几个人站起来，作假见证告祂说，
And some stood up and testified falsely against Him, saying,
14:58 我们曾听见祂说，我要拆毁这人手所造的殿，三日内，我要另造一座非人手所造的。
We heard Him say, I will destroy this temple made with hands, and in three days I will build another made without hands.
14:59 就是这样，他们的见证也不相合。
And neither in this regard was their testimony consistent.
14:60 大祭司起来，站在中间，问耶稣说，你什么都不回答么？这些人作见证告你的是什么？
And the high priest stood up in the midst and questioned Jesus, saying, Do You not answer anything? What is this that these testify against You?
14:61 耶稣却默不作声，一句也不回答。大祭司又问祂说，你是那当受颂赞者的儿子基督不是？
But He was silent and did not answer anything. Again the high priest questioned Him and said to Him, Are You the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?
14:62 耶稣说，我是！你们要看见人子坐在那大能者的右边，驾着天上的云而来。
And Jesus said, I am. And you shall see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of Power and coming with the clouds of heaven.
14:63 大祭司就撕开衣服，说，我们还需要什么证人？
And the high priest, tearing his garments, said, What further need do we have of witnesses?
14:64 你们听见这僭妄的话了，你们看怎么样？他们都定祂该死的罪。
You heard the blasphemy! How does it appear to you? And they all condemned Him of being worthy of death.
14:65 就有人向祂吐唾沫，又蒙着祂的脸，用拳头打祂，对祂说，你申言吧！差役就把祂拉过去，用手掌打祂。
And some began to spit at Him and to blindfold His face and to beat Him with their fists and to say to Him, Prophesy! And the attendants, slapping Him about,
took Him.
14:66 彼得在下面院子里，来了大祭司的一个使女，
And while Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest came,
14:67 见彼得烤火，就看着他说，你也是同那拿撒勒人耶稣一起的。
And seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, You also were with the Nazarene, Jesus.
14:68 彼得却不承认，说，我不知道，也不明白你说的是什么。于是出来，到了前院，鸡就叫了。
But he denied it, saying, I neither know nor understand what you are talking about. And he went outside into the forecourt, and a rooster crowed.
14:69 那使女看见他，又对旁边站着的人说，这个人也是属他们的。
And the servant girl, seeing him, began again to say to those standing by, This man is one of them!
14:70 彼得又不承认。过了不久，旁边站着的人又对彼得说，你确是属他们的，因为你也是加利利人。
But again he denied it. And after a little while, those standing by again said to Peter, Surely you are one of them, for you are a Galilean as well.
14:71 彼得遂发咒起誓说，我不认得你们所说的这个人。
But he began to curse and to swear, I do not know this man of whom you speak!
14:72 立时鸡叫了第二遍。彼得想起耶稣对他所说的话，鸡叫两遍以前，你要三次否认我。他想起来，就哭了。
And immediately a rooster crowed a second time. And Peter remembered the word, how Jesus had said to him, Before a rooster crows twice, you will deny Me
three times. And thinking upon it, he wept.
马可福音 Mark 第 15 章
15:1 祭司长立即在早晨同长老、经学家、并全议会的人商议，就把耶稣捆绑，解去交给彼拉多。
And immediately in the morning the chief priests held a consultation with the elders and scribes and the whole Sanhedrin, and having bound Jesus, they led Him
away and delivered Him to Pilate.
15:2 彼拉多问祂说，你是犹太人的王么？耶稣回答说，你说的是。
And Pilate questioned Him, Are You the King of the Jews? And answering him, He said, It is as you say.
15:3 祭司长告了祂许多事。
And the chief priests accused Him of many things.
15:4 彼拉多又问祂说，你看，他们告你这么多的事，你什么都不回答么？
And Pilate again questioned Him, saying, Do You answer nothing? See how many things they are accusing You of.
15:5 耶稣却仍不回答什么，以致彼拉多觉得希奇。
But Jesus made no further answer, so that Pilate marveled.
15:6 每逢节期，总督惯常把群众所求的一个囚犯，释放给他们。
Now at the feasts he released to them one prisoner whom they requested.
15:7 有一个人名叫巴拉巴，和作乱的人一同囚禁；他们作乱的时候，曾杀过人。
And there was one named Barabbas, bound with the insurrectionists who had committed murder in the insurrection.
15:8 群众上去，求总督照常给他们办。
And the crowd came up and began to ask him to do even as he had been accustomed to do for them.
15:9 彼拉多回答他们说，你们要我释放犹太人的王给你们么？
But Pilate answered them, saying, Do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews?
15:10 他原知道祭司长是因嫉妒才把耶稣解了来。
For he knew that it was because of envy that the chief priests had delivered Him up.
15:11 只是祭司长挑唆群众，宁可要他释放巴拉巴给他们。
But the chief priests stirred up the crowd that instead he should release Barabbas to them.
15:12 彼拉多又回答他们说，那么，你们所称为犹太人的王，你们要我怎么办祂？
And Pilate again answered and said to them, What then do you want me to do with Him whom you call the King of the Jews?
15:13 他们又喊着说，钉祂十字架！
And again they cried out, Crucify Him!
15:14 彼拉多对他们说，为什么？祂作了什么恶事？他们却更加喊叫：钉祂十字架！
But Pilate said to them, Why, what evil has He done? But they cried out the more, Crucify Him!
15:15 彼拉多想要叫群众满意，就释放巴拉巴给他们，将耶稣鞭打了，交给人钉十字架。
And Pilate, wishing to satisfy the crowd, released to them Barabbas and scourged Jesus and delivered Him up to be crucified.
15:16 兵丁把耶稣带进总督府的院子里，叫齐了全营的兵。
And the soldiers led Him away within the courtyard, that is, the praetorium, and called together the whole cohort.
15:17 他们给祂穿上紫袍，又把编成的荆棘冠冕给祂戴上，
And they clothed Him in purple and wove a thorny crown and put it around His head.
15:18 就向祂致敬说，犹太人的王！愿你喜乐！
And they began to salute Him: Rejoice, King of the Jews!
15:19 又用一根苇子打祂的头，向祂吐唾沫，屈膝拜祂。
And they beat His head with a reed and spat at Him. And kneeling down, they bowed before Him.
15:20 戏弄完了，就脱下祂的紫袍，给祂穿上自己的衣服，带祂出去，要钉祂十字架。
And when they had mocked Him, they stripped Him of the purple and put His garments on Him. And they led Him out to crucify Him.
15:21 有一个古利奈人西门，就是亚力山大和鲁孚的父亲，从乡下来，经过那里，他们就强迫他背耶稣的十字架。
And they compelled a certain passerby coming from the country, Simon a Cyrenian, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to take up His cross.
15:22 他们带耶稣到了各各他地方，（各各他翻出来，就是髑髅地，）
And they brought Him to the place Golgotha, which is interpreted, the Place of a Skull.
15:23 拿没药调和的酒给祂，祂却不接受。
And they tried to give Him wine mixed with myrrh, but He did not take it.
15:24 于是将祂钉十字架，拈阄分祂的衣服，看谁该得什么。
And they crucified Him and divided His garments, casting lots for them to see what each should take.
15:25 他们将祂钉了十字架，乃是在上午九时。
Now it was the third hour and they crucified Him.
15:26 其上的罪状牌写着：犹太人的王。
And there was an inscription of the charge against Him inscribed: The King Of The JEWS.
15:27 他们又把两个强盗，和祂同钉十字架，一个在右边，一个在左边。
And with Him they crucified two robbers, one on His right and one on His left.
15:28 这就应验了经上的话，说，“祂被列在不法的人当中。”
And the Scripture was fulfilled which says, "And He was counted with the lawless.''
15:29 经过的人亵渎祂，摇着头说，咳！你这拆毁圣殿，三日内建造起来的，
And those who were passing by blasphemed Him, wagging their heads and saying, Aha! You who destroy the temple and build it in three days,
15:30 救你自己吧！从十字架上下来吧！
Save Yourself and come down from the cross!
15:31 祭司长和经学家也是这样戏弄祂，彼此说，祂救了别人，不能救自己。
Likewise also the chief priests with the scribes mocked Him with one another and said, He saved others; Himself He cannot save.
15:32 以色列的王基督，现在可以从十字架上下来，叫我们看见就信。那和祂同钉的人也是辱骂祂。
Let the Christ, the King of Israel, come down now from the cross that we may see and believe. Those who were crucified with Him also reproached Him.
15:33 从正午到午后三时，遍地都黑暗了。
And when the sixth hour came, darkness fell over the whole land until the ninth hour.
15:34 午后三时，耶稣大声喊着：以罗伊，以罗伊，拉马撒巴各大尼？翻出来就是：我的神，我的神，你为什么弃绝我？
And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? which is interpreted, My God, My God, why have You forsaken Me?
15:35 旁边站着的人，有的听见就说，看哪，祂呼叫以利亚。
And some of those standing by heard this and said, Behold, He is calling for Elijah.
15:36 有一个人跑去，把海绵蘸满了醋，绑在苇子上，送给祂喝，说，等一等，看以利亚来不来把祂取下。
And someone ran and filled a sponge with vinegar, and putting it on a reed, gave it to Him to drink, saying, Let Him be. Let us see if Elijah is coming to take Him
down.
15:37 耶稣大声喊叫，气就断了。
And Jesus let out a loud cry and expired.
15:38 殿里的幔子从上到下裂为两半。
And the veil of the temple was split in two from top to bottom.
15:39 对面站着的百夫长，看见祂这样断气，就说，这人真是神的儿子。
And the centurion standing by opposite Him, seeing that He expired in this way, said, Truly this man was the Son of God.
15:40 还有些妇女，远远的观看，其中有抹大拉的马利亚，又有小雅各和约西的母亲马利亚，并有撒罗米，
And there were also some women looking on from a distance, among whom were Mary the Magdalene, and Mary the mother of the younger James and of
Joses, and Salome,
15:41 就是耶稣在加利利的时候，跟随祂，服事祂的那些人，另外还有许多跟祂同上耶路撒冷的妇女。
Who, when He was in Galilee, followed Him and ministered to Him, as well as many other women who came up with Him to Jerusalem.
15:42 到了黄昏，因为这是预备日，就是安息日的前一日，
And when evening had fallen, since it was the day of preparation, that is, the day before the Sabbath,
15:43 有亚利马太的一个人约瑟前来；他是尊贵的议士，也是盼望神国的，他放胆进到彼拉多那里，求耶稣的身体。
Joseph, the honorable member of the Council, from Arimathea, who was also himself awaiting the kingdom of God, came; and gathering courage, he went in to
Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
15:44 彼拉多希奇耶稣已经死了，便叫百夫长来，问他耶稣死了久不久。
And Pilate marveled that He had already died, and calling to him the centurion, he questioned him whether He had been dead long.
15:45 他既从百夫长得知实情，就把耶稣的尸首给了约瑟。
And when he found out from the centurion, he granted the corpse to Joseph.
15:46 约瑟买了细麻布，把耶稣取下来，用细麻布裹好，安放在磐石中凿出来的坟墓里，又辊过一块石头来挡住墓门。
And Joseph purchased a piece of fine linen, took Him down, and wrapped Him in the fine linen. And he laid Him in a tomb which was hewn out of rock and
rolled a stone against the door of the tomb.
15:47 抹大拉的马利亚，和约西的母亲马利亚，都看见安放祂的地方。
And Mary the Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses saw where He was laid.
马可福音 Mark 第 16 章
16:1 过了安息日，抹大拉的马利亚，和雅各的母亲马利亚，并撒罗米，买了香料，要去膏耶稣的身体。
And when the Sabbath was past, Mary the Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome bought spices so that they might come and anoint Him.
16:2 七日的第一日大清早，日出的时候，她们来到坟墓那里。
And very early on the first day of the week, they came to the tomb as the sun rose.
16:3 彼此说，谁给我们把石头从墓门辊开？
And they said to one another, Who will roll away the stone for us from the door of the tomb?
16:4 原来那石头很大。她们往上一看，却见石头已经辊开了。
And when they looked up, they saw that the stone had been rolled away, for it was extremely large.
16:5 她们进了坟墓，看见一个青年人坐在右边，穿着白袍，就甚惊恐。
And when they entered into the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right, clothed in a white robe, and they were alarmed.
16:6 他对她们说，不要惊恐，你们寻找那钉十字架的拿撒勒人耶稣，祂已经复活了，不在这里，请看安放祂的地方。
And he said to them, Do not be alarmed. You are seeking Jesus the Nazarene, who has been crucified. He has been raised; He is not here. Behold the place
where they laid Him.
16:7 你们要去告诉祂的门徒和彼得说，祂在你们以先往加利利去，在那里你们要看见祂，正如祂从前所告诉你们的。
But go, tell His disciples and Peter that He is going before you into Galilee. There you will see Him, even as He told you.
16:8 她们因感战栗惊慌，就出来，从坟墓那里逃跑；由于害怕，她们什么也不告诉人。
And they went out and fled from the tomb, for trembling and astonishment had seized them. And they said nothing to anyone, for they were afraid.
16:9 在七日的第一日清早，耶稣复活了，就先向抹大拉的马利亚显现，耶稣从她身上曾赶出七个鬼。
Now after He had risen early on the first day of the week, He appeared first to Mary the Magdalene, from whom He had cast out seven demons.
16:10 她去报告那向来与耶稣同在的人，那时他们正哀恸哭泣。
She went and reported to those who had been with Him, who were mourning and weeping.
16:11 他们听见耶稣活了，且被马利亚看见，却是不信。
And when they heard that He was alive and had been seen by her, they did not believe.
16:12 这事以后，门徒中间有两个人，往乡下去，走路的时候，耶稣以不同的形状向他们显现。
And after these things, He appeared in a different form to two of them as they were walking on their way into the countryside.
16:13 他们就去报告其余的门徒，那些门徒也是不信他们。
And they went away and reported to the rest, but they did not believe them either.
16:14 后来十一个门徒坐席的时候，耶稣向他们显现，责备他们不信，心里刚硬，因为他们不信那些在祂复活以后看见祂的人。
And afterward He appeared to the eleven as they were reclining at table, and He reproached their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they did not believe
those who had seen Him after He had risen.
16:15 祂又对他们说，你们往普天下去，向一切受造之物传扬福音。
And He said to them, Go into all the world and proclaim the gospel to all the creation.
16:16 信而受浸的必然得救，不信的必被定罪。
He who believes and is baptized shall be saved, but he who does not believe shall be condemned.
16:17 信的人必有神迹随着他们，就是在我的名里赶鬼，说新方言，
And these signs will accompany those who believe: in My name they will cast out demons; they will speak with new tongues;
16:18 手能拿蛇，若喝了什么致死之物，也绝不受害，手按病人，病人就必好了。
They will pick up serpents; and if they drink anything deadly, it shall by no means harm them; they will lay hands on the sick, and they will be well.
16:19 主耶稣对他们说完了话以后，就被接到天上，坐在神的右边。
So then the Lord Jesus, after speaking to them, was taken up into heaven and sat at the right hand of God.
16:20 门徒出去，到处传道，主和他们同工，用神迹随着，证实所传的道。
And they went out and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them and confirming the word by the accompanying signs.