34. 那鸿书 Nahum
那鸿书 Nahum 第 1 章
1:1 关于尼尼微的默示，就是伊勒歌斯人那鸿的异象书。
The burden concerning Nineveh. The book of the vision of Nahum the Elkoshite.
1:2 耶和华是忌邪施报的神；耶和华施报，且满有忿怒；耶和华向祂的敌人施报，向祂的仇敌怀怒。
Jehovah is a jealous God and One who avenges; Jehovah avenges and is full of wrath; Jehovah takes vengeance on His adversaries, And reserves wrath for His
enemies.
1:3 耶和华不轻易发怒，大有能力，绝不以有罪的为无罪；耶和华的道路在旋风和暴风中，云彩是祂脚下的尘土。
Jehovah is long-suffering and great in power And will by no means clear the guilty. Jehovah-His way is in the whirlwind and in the storm, And the clouds are the
dust of His feet.
1:4 祂斥责海，使海干了，使一切江河干涸。巴珊和迦密的树林衰残，利巴嫩的花草也衰残了。
He rebukes the sea and makes it dry, And He dries up all the rivers. Bashan and Carmel languish, And the sprout of Lebanon languishes.
1:5 大山因祂震动，小山也都镕化；大地在祂面前突起，世界和住在其间的也都如此。
The mountains quake because of Him, And the hills melt, And the earth is heaved up at His presence, Indeed the world, and all that inhabit it.
1:6 在祂的恼怒前，谁能站得住呢？祂发烈怒，谁能当得起呢？祂的忿怒如火倾倒，磐石因祂崩裂。
Who can stand before His indignation, And who can maintain himself in the fierceness of His anger? His wrath is poured out like fire, And the rocks are broken
down by Him.
1:7 耶和华本为善，在急难的日子作人的保障；祂认得那些投奔于祂的人。
Jehovah is good, A stronghold in a day of distress; And He knows those who take refuge in Him.
1:8 但祂必以泛滥的洪水将尼尼微灭绝净尽，又将祂的仇敌赶入黑暗。
But with an overflowing flood He will make a full end of her place, And He will pursue His enemies into darkness.
1:9 尼尼微人哪，你们设何谋攻击耶和华呢？祂必将你们灭绝净尽；灾难必不再次兴起。
What do you devise against Jehovah? He will make a full end; Distress will not arise a second time.
1:10 他们虽像缠结的荆棘，像喝醉了的人，却必如枯干的碎桔全然烧灭。
For though they are entangled like thorns And like those drunken with their drink, They will be consumed as fully as dry stubble.
1:11 有一人从你那里出来，图谋邪恶，设恶计攻击耶和华。
One went forth from you Who devises evil against Jehovah, Who counsels wickedness.
1:12 耶和华如此说，他们虽然人数充足繁多，也必被剪除消逝。犹大阿，我虽然使你受苦，却不再使你受苦。
Thus says Jehovah, Though they are complete in number and even numerous, Even so they will be cut down; and they will pass away. And though I have afflicted
you, I will afflict you no more.
1:13 现在我必从你颈项上折断他的轭，扭开你的绳索。
And now I will break his yoke from off you And will snap your bonds asunder.
1:14 尼尼微阿，耶和华已经出令，指着你说，你的名必不再散播；我必从你神的庙中，除灭雕制的偶像，和铸造的偶像；我必因你的卑劣，为你预备坟墓。
And Jehovah has commanded concerning you: No more of your name will be sown; Out of the house of your gods I will cut off The graven idol and the molten
idol; I will make your grave, for you are worthless.
1:15 看哪，报好信传平安之人的脚登山，说，犹大阿，当守你的节期，还你所许的愿；因为那恶人必不再从你中间经过；他已全然被剪除了。
See, upon the mountains The feet of him who bears the glad news, Who announces peace! Keep your feasts, O Judah; Complete your vows; For the wicked one
will never again Pass through you; He will be completely cut off.
那鸿书 Nahum 第 2 章
2:1 尼尼微阿，那打散邦国的上到你面前；你要看守保障，谨防道路，使腰强壮，大大勉力。
He who scatters has come up before you: Keep the fortress, Watch the way, Strengthen the loins, Fortify the power greatly.
2:2 因为耶和华复兴雅各所夸耀的，好像以色列所夸耀的一样；因为劫掠者已经把他们劫掠一空，将他们的葡萄枝毁坏了。
For Jehovah restores The excellency of Jacob As the excellency of Israel; For the emptiers have emptied them out And destroyed their vine branches.
2:3 祂勇士的盾牌是红的，精兵都穿朱红衣服；在祂预备争战的日子，战车上的钢铁闪烁如火，枪矛也抡起来了；
The shield of His mighty men is red; The valiant men are clad in scarlet; The chariots flash with the shining of steel In the day of His preparation, And the spears
are brandished.
2:4 战车在街上急行，在宽阔处奔来奔去，形状如火把，飞跑如闪电。
In the streets the chariots rush madly; They dash to and fro in the open squares; Their appearance is like that of torches; They dart like lightning.
2:5 亚述王招聚他的贵胄：他们颠踬而行，奔上城墙，但攻城者的防障已经备妥。
The Assyrian king remembers his glorious ones: They stumble in their march; They hasten to the wall of the city, But the besiegers' shelter is prepared.
2:6 河闸开放，宫殿摧毁。
The gates of the rivers are opened, And the palace is dissolved.
2:7 王后赤身，被人掳去；宫女捶胸，哀鸣如鸽；此乃命定之事。
And it is determined: She is uncovered; she is carried away; And her maidens moan, As with the sound of doves, Beating their breasts.
2:8 尼尼微自古以来充满人民，如同聚水的池子；现在他们却都逃跑；虽有人呼喊说，站住！站住！却无人回顾。
Though Nineveh has been like a pool of water all her days, Now they are fleeing. Stand! Stand! But no one turns back.
2:9 你们抢掠银子，抢掠金子罢！因为所储备的无穷，一切的宝器何等荣耀！
Plunder the silver! Plunder the gold! And there is no end to what has been prepared. Oh, the glory of all the desirable vessels!
2:10 现在却空虚、荒凉、旷废！人心融化，双膝相碰，腰都疼痛，脸都变暗。
Emptiness and void and waste! And the heart melts, and the knees knock, And anguish is in all the loins, And the faces of all of them become pale.
2:11 狮子的洞和少壮狮子喂养之处在那里呢？公狮、母狮、小狮游行，无人惊吓之处在那里呢？
Where is the den of lions And the feeding place of young lions, Where the lion and the lioness walked, And the lion's whelp; and no one frightened them?
2:12 公狮为小狮撕碎足够的食物，为母狮掐死活物，把猎物充满它的洞，把撕碎的充满它的穴。
The lion tore in pieces, enough for his whelps, And strangled for his lioness And filled his caves with torn prey And his dens with torn animals.
2:13 万军之耶和华说，看哪，我与你为敌，必将你的战车焚烧成烟，刀剑也必吞灭你的少壮狮子；我必从地上除灭你的猎物；你使者的声音，必不再听见。
Indeed I am against you, Declares Jehovah of hosts; And I will burn your chariots in smoke, And the sword will devour your young lions; And I will cut off your prey
from the earth; And the voice of your messengers will no longer be heard.
那鸿书 Nahum 第 3 章
3:1 祸哉，这流人血的城！充满谎诈和强暴，抢夺的事总不止息。
Woe to the bloody city! She is all full of lies and pillage; The prey does not depart.
3:2 鞭声响亮，车轮轰轰；马匹快跑，车辆奔腾，
The sound of the whip, And the sound of the rattling wheel; And the horse galloping, And the chariot jolting by,
3:3 骑兵跃马，刀剑发光，枪矛闪烁；被杀的甚多，尸首成堆，尸骸无数，人碰着而跌倒。
The horseman making the horse to rear up, And the sword flashing, And the spear glittering; And a multitude of the slain, And a mass of corpses, And no end to
the bodies-They stumble among their bodies.
3:4 都因那美貌的妓女，行邪术的主母，多有淫行，藉淫行出卖列国，用邪术出卖多族。
This because of the multitude of harlotries Of the well-favored harlot, The mistress of sorceries, Who sells nations by her harlotries And families by her sorceries.
3:5 万军之耶和华说，我与你为敌；我必揭起你的衣襟，蒙在你脸上，使列邦看见你的赤体，使列国看见你的羞耻。
Indeed I am against you, declares Jehovah of hosts; And I will throw open your skirts upon your face, And I will show the nations your nakedness, And the
kingdoms your shame.
3:6 我必将可憎污秽之物抛在你身上，使你显为愚昧，为众目所观。
And I will cast abominable filth upon you And make you appear foolish and make you like a spectacle.
3:7 凡看见你的，都必逃跑离开你，说，尼尼微成了荒场。有谁为她悲伤呢？我何处寻得安慰你的人呢？
And everyone who sees you Will flee from you and say, Nineveh is laid waste. Who will lament for her? Where will I seek Some to comfort you?
3:8 你岂比挪亚们强么？挪亚们坐落在众河渠之间，周围有水；海作她的屏障，水作她的城墙。
Are you better than No-amon, Who sat beside the canals With waters all around her, Whose bulwark was the sea And water was her wall?
3:9 古实和埃及是她的力量，无穷无尽；弗人和路比族是她的帮手。
Cush was her strength, As well as Egypt, and it was without end; Put and the Libyans Were among her helpers.
3:10 但她还是被迁徙，被掳去；她的婴孩在各街头也被摔死；人为她的尊贵人拈阄；她所有的尊大者都被链子锁着。
She too was carried away; She went into captivity; Her little ones too were dashed to pieces At the head of every street, And for her nobles They cast lots, And all
her great men Were bound in chains.
3:11 你也必喝醉，必被隐藏；并因仇敌的缘故寻求保障。
You too will be drunken; You will be hidden. You too will seek A stronghold from the enemy.
3:12 你一切保障必像无花果树上初熟的无花果；若一摇撼，就落在想吃之人的口中。
All your fortresses will be like fig trees With first ripe figs: If they are shaken, they will fall Into the mouth of the eater.
3:13 看哪，在你中间的人民，如同妇女；你国土的关口，向仇敌敞开；你的门闩，被火焚烧。
Indeed your people are like women In the midst of you; Unto your enemies the gates of your land Are wide open; Fire devours your bars.
3:14 你要为自己打水，预备受困！巩固你的保障！踹土和泥！预备砖窑！
Draw for yourself water for the siege! Strengthen your fortresses! Go into the clay, And tread in the mortar! Make the brick kiln ready!
3:15 在那里火必烧灭你；刀必除灭你，吞吃你如同蝗虫。任你加增人数如蝗虫，加增人数多如蝗虫罢。
There will the fire devour you; The sword will cut you off; It will devour you like the locust. Enlarge yourself like the locust; Enlarge yourself like the locust swarm.
3:16 你增添商贾，多过天上的星；蝗虫吃尽就飞去。
You have multiplied your merchants Like the stars of heaven; The locust strips everything and flies away.
3:17 你的首领多如蝗虫，你的军长仿佛成群的蝗虫，天凉的时候，齐落在篱笆上，日头一出便都飞去，不知道落在何处。
Your princes are like the locust swarm, And your officials are like hordes of locusts, Which camp in the hedges On a cold day, But when the sun arises, they flee
away, And the place where they are is unknown.
3:18 亚述王阿，你的牧人打盹，你的贵胄安歇；你的人民散在山间，无人招聚。
Your shepherds slumber, O king of Assyria; Your nobles sleep. Your people are scattered upon the mountains, And there is no one to gather them.
3:19 你的损伤无法医治，你的创伤极其严重。凡听见你消息的，必都向你拍掌；因为你所行的恶，谁没有时常遭遇呢？
There is no alleviating of your injury; Your wound is grievous. All who hear the report of you Clap their hands over you; For upon whom has your wickedness Not
passed continually?