
16. 尼希米记 Nehemiah
尼希米记 Nehemiah 第 1 章
1:1 哈迦利亚的儿子尼希米的言语如下：亚达薛西王二十年基斯流月，我在书珊京城；
The words of Nehemiah the son of Hacaliah. Now in the month Chislev, in the twentieth year, while I was in Susa the capital,
1:2 那时，有我一个弟兄哈拿尼，同着几个人从犹大来。我问他们那些被掳归回、剩下逃脱的犹大人和耶路撒冷的光景。
Hanani, one of my brothers, came, he and some men from Judah; and I asked them about the Jews who had escaped, who were left from the captivity, and
about Jerusalem.
1:3 他们对我说，那些被掳归回剩下的余民在犹大省遭大难，受凌辱；并且耶路撒冷的城墙被拆毁，城门被火焚烧。
And they said to me, The remnant who are left from the captivity there in the province are in an exceedingly bad state and reproach, and the wall of Jerusalem is
broken down and its gates have been burned with fire.
1:4 我听见这些话，就坐下哭泣，悲哀几日，在天上的神面前禁食祷告，
And when I heard these words, I sat down and wept, and I mourned for some days; and I fasted and prayed before the God of heaven,
1:5 说，耶和华天上的神，大而可畏的神阿，你向爱你、守你诫命的人守约并施慈爱；
And said, I beseech You, O Jehovah the God of heaven, the great and awesome God, who keeps covenant and lovingkindness with those who love Him and
keep His commandments:
1:6 愿你侧耳睁眼，垂听你仆人的祷告，就是我现今昼夜在你面前为你众仆人以色列人所祷告的，承认我们以色列人向你所犯的罪。我与我父家都有罪了；
Let Your ear be attentive and Your eyes open to hear the prayer of Your servant, which I pray before You now day and night, concerning the children of Israel,
Your servants, while I confess the sins of the children of Israel that we have sinned against You. Indeed, I and the house of my father have sinned;
1:7 我们向你所行的甚是败坏，没有遵守你吩咐你仆人摩西的诫命、律例和典章。
We have been most corrupt toward You and have not kept the commandments and the statutes and the ordinances that You commanded Moses Your servant.
1:8 求你记念所吩咐你仆人摩西的话，说，你们若不忠信，我就把你们分散在诸民中；
Remember now the word that You commanded Moses Your servant, saying, If you are unfaithful, I will scatter you among the peoples;
1:9 但你们若归向我，谨守遵行我的诫命，你们被赶散的人，就是在天涯，我也必从那里将他们招聚回来，带到我所选择给我名居住的地方。
But if you return to Me and keep My commandments and perform them, though your outcasts are under the ends of heaven, from there I will gather them and
bring them to the place where I have chosen to cause My name to dwell.
1:10 这些都是你的仆人、你的百姓，就是你用你的大能，和你大力的手所救赎的。
Now these are Your servants and Your people, whom You have redeemed by Your great power and by Your strong hand.
1:11 主阿，求你侧耳听你仆人的祷告，和喜爱敬畏你名众仆人的祷告，使你仆人今日亨通，使他在王面前蒙怜恤。我是作王司酒的。
I beseech You, O Lord, let Your ear be attentive to the prayer of Your servant and to the prayer of Your servants, who take delight in fearing Your name; and cause
Your servant to prosper today, and grant him to find compassion before this man. Now I was cupbearer to the king.
尼希米记 Nehemiah 第 2 章
2:1 亚达薛西王二十年尼散月，有酒摆在王面前，我拿起酒来奉给王。我素来在他面前没有愁容。
Then in the month of Nisan, in the twentieth year of Artaxerxes the king, while wine was being set before him, I took up the wine and gave it to the king. Now I
had never been sad in his presence.
2:2 王对我说，你既没有病，为什么面带愁容呢？这不是别的，必是你心中愁烦。于是我甚惧怕。
And the king said to me, Why is your face sad, since you are not ill? This is nothing other than sadness of heart. Then I was greatly frightened.
2:3 我对王说，愿王万岁！我列祖坟墓所在的那城荒凉，城门被火焚烧，我岂能面无愁容呢？
And I said to the king, May the king live forever! Why should my face not be sad, when the city, the place of my fathers' graves, lies in waste and its gates are
consumed with fire?
2:4 王问我说，你要求什么？于是我祷告天上的神。
And the king said to me, What do you request? So I prayed to the God of heaven.
2:5 我对王说，王若以为美，仆人若在王面前蒙恩惠，求王差遣我往犹大，到我列祖坟墓所在的城去，我好重新建造那城。
And I said to the king, If it please the king and if your servant has found favor before you, that you would send me to Judah to the city of my fathers' graves that I
may rebuild it.
2:6 那时王后坐在王的旁边。王问我说，你去需时多久？几时回来？王喜欢差遣我去，我也把日期告诉了王。
And the king said to me (and the queen was sitting beside him), How long will your going be, and when will you return? So it pleased the king to send me, and I
gave him a date.
2:7 我又对王说，王若以为美，请赐我诏书，通知大河以西的诸省长准我经过，直到我抵达犹大；
Then I said to the king, If it please the king, let letters be given to me for the governors beyond the River, so that they will let me pass through until I come to Judah;
2:8 又赐诏书，通知看守王园林的亚萨，使他给我木料，作属殿营楼之门的横梁，并供城墙和我要住的房屋使用。因我神美善的手帮助我，王就把我所求
的赐给我。
And a letter to Asaph, the keeper of the Park, which belongs to the king, so that he would give me timber to make beams for the gates of the palace that belongs
to the house and for the wall of the city and for the house that I will be entering. And the king gave these to me according to the good hand of my God, which
was upon me.
2:9 王派了军长和马兵护送我。我到了河西的诸省长那里，将王的诏书交给他们。
So I went to the governors beyond the River and gave them the king's letters. And the king had sent with me captains of the army and horsemen.
2:10 和伦人参巴拉，并作臣仆的亚扪人多比雅，听见有人来为以色列人求好处，就甚恼怒。
And when Sanballat the Horonite and Tobiah the Ammonite servant heard of this, it displeased them greatly that a man had come seeking the good of the
children of Israel.
2:11 我到了耶路撒冷，在那里住了三日。
Thus I came to Jerusalem and was there three days.
482
2:12 我夜间起来，有几个人也一同起来；但神使我心里起意要为耶路撒冷作什么事，我并没有告诉人。除了我骑的牲口以外，也没有别的牲口在我那里。
And I arose at night, I and some few men with me. And I told no man what my God had put into my heart to do for Jerusalem. And there was no animal with me
except the animal I rode on.
2:13 当夜我出了谷门，往野狗泉去，到了粪门，察看耶路撒冷的城墙，见城墙被拆毁，城门被火焚烧。
And I went out at night by the Valley Gate, toward the Jackals' Spring and the Dung Gate, and inspected the walls of Jerusalem, which had been broken down
and whose gates had been consumed with fire.
2:14 我又往前，到了泉门和王池，但所骑的牲口没有地方过去。
Then I passed on to the Fountain Gate and to the King's Pool, but there was no place for the animal under me to pass through.
2:15 于是我在夜间沿溪而上，察看城墙，又转身进入谷门，就回来了。
And I went up at night by the brook and inspected the wall, and turned back and went in by the Valley Gate and so returned.
2:16 我去过那里，作了什么事，官长都不知道；我还没有告诉犹大人、祭司、贵胄、官长、和其余作工的人。
And the rulers did not know where I had gone or what I had been doing; and I had not as yet told it to the Jews and the priests and the nobles and the rulers and
the rest who were to do the work.
2:17 以后，我对他们说，我们所遭的祸患，耶路撒冷怎样荒凉，城门被火焚烧，你们都看见了。来罢，我们重建耶路撒冷的城墙，免得再受凌辱。
Then I said to them, You see the bad state we are in, that Jerusalem lies in waste and its gates are burned with fire. Come and let us build up the wall of
Jerusalem so that we will no longer be a reproach.
2:18 我告诉他们，我神美善的手怎样帮助我，也把王对我所说的话告诉他们。他们就说，我们起来建造罢；于是他们奋勇作这善工。
And I told them about the hand of my God, which was good upon me, and also about the king's words, which he had spoken to me. And they said, Let us rise up
and build; and they strengthened their hands for the good work.
2:19 但和伦人参巴拉、作臣仆的亚扪人多比雅、和亚拉伯人基善听见，就嗤笑我们，藐视我们，说，你们作的是什么事？你们要背叛王么？
But when Sanballat the Horonite and Tobiah the Ammonite servant and Geshem the Arabian heard of it, they mocked us and despised us; and they said, What is
this thing that you will do? Will you rebel against the king?
2:20 我回答他们说，天上的神必亲自使我们亨通；所以我们作祂仆人的，要起来建造。你们却在耶路撒冷无分、无权、无记念。
And I answered them and said to them, The God of heaven Himself will make us prosper; therefore we His servants will rise up and build. But you have no
portion nor right nor memorial in Jerusalem.
尼希米记 Nehemiah 第 3 章
3:1 那时，大祭司以利亚实和他的弟兄众祭司起来建造羊门，将这门分别为圣，安立门扇；又筑城墙到哈米亚楼，将这楼分别为圣，又筑城墙到哈楠业楼。
Then Eliashib the high priest rose up with his brothers the priests and built the Sheep Gate. They consecrated it and erected its doors; even as far as the Tower of
the Hundred they consecrated it and as far as the Tower of Hananel.
3:2 其旁是耶利哥人建造。其旁是音利的儿子撒刻建造。
And next to him the men of Jericho built. And next to them Zaccur the son of Imri built.
3:3 哈西拿的子孙建造鱼门：架设横梁，安门扇、门插和门闩。
And the sons of Hassenaah built the Fish Gate: They laid its beams and set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars.
3:4 其旁是哈哥斯的孙子，乌利亚的儿子米利末修造。其旁是米示萨别的孙子，比利迦的儿子米书兰修造。其旁是巴拿的儿子撒督修造。
And next to them Meremoth the son of Uriah, the son of Hakkoz made repairs. And next to them Meshullam the son of Berechiah, the son of Meshezabel made
repairs. And next to them Zadok the son of Baana made repairs.
3:5 其旁是提哥亚人修造；但是他们的贵胄不肯负轭服事他们的主。
And next to them the Tekoites made repairs, but their nobles would not put their necks to the service of their Lord.
3:6 巴西亚的儿子耶何耶大与比所玳的儿子米书兰修造古门：架设横梁，安门扇、门插和门闩。
And Joiada the son of Paseah and Meshullam the son of Besodeiah repaired the Old Gate: They laid its beams and set up its doors and its bolts and its bars.
3:7 其旁是基遍人米拉提、米伦人雅顿，与基遍人和米斯巴人一同修造，直到河西总督府。
And next to them Melatiah the Gibeonite and Jadon the Meronothite with the men of Gibeon and of Mizpah made repairs to the throne of the governor beyond
the River.
3:8 其旁是金匠哈海雅的儿子乌薛修造。其旁是调制香品者哈拿尼雅修造。这些人加固耶路撒冷的城墙，直到宽墙。
Next to him Uzziel the son of Harhaiah, one of the goldsmiths, made repairs. And next to him Hananiah, one of the perfumers, made repairs, and they fortified
Jerusalem even unto the broad wall.
3:9 其旁是管理耶路撒冷一半地区，户珥的儿子利法雅修造。
And next to them Rephaiah the son of Hur, the ruler of half the district of Jerusalem, made repairs.
3:10 其旁是哈路抹的儿子耶大雅对着自己的房屋修造。其旁是哈沙尼的儿子哈突修造。
And next to them Jedaiah the son of Harumaph, opposite his house. And next to him Hattush the son of Hashabneiah made repairs.
3:11 哈琳的儿子玛基雅和巴哈摩押的儿子哈述修造另一段，包括炉楼。
Malchijah the son of Harim and Hasshub the son of Pahath-moab repaired another section, including the Tower of the Furnaces.
3:12 其旁是管理耶路撒冷另一半地区，哈罗黑的儿子沙龙和他的女儿们修造。
And next to him Shallum the son of Hallohesh, the ruler of half the district of Jerusalem, made repairs, he and his daughters.
3:13 哈嫩和撒挪亚的居民修造谷门：重建那门，安门扇、门插和门闩，又建筑城墙一千肘，直到粪门。
Hanun and the inhabitants of Zanoah repaired the Valley Gate: They built it and set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars, as well as one thousand cubits of the wall
to the Dung Gate.
3:14 管理伯哈基琳区，利甲的儿子玛基雅修造粪门：重建那门，安门扇、门插和门闩。
And Malchijah the son of Rechab, the ruler of the district of Beth-haccherem repaired the Dung Gate: He built it and set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars.
3:15 管理米斯巴区，各荷西的儿子沙仑修造泉门：重建那门，盖门顶，安门扇、门插和门闩，又修造靠近王园西罗亚池的墙垣，直到那从大卫城下来的台
阶。
And Shallum the son of Colhozeh, the ruler of the district of Mizpah, repaired the Fountain Gate: He built it and covered it and set up its doors, its bolts, and its
bars, as well as the wall of the Pool of Shelah by the King's Garden, even to the stairs that go down from the City of David.
483
3:16 其后是管理伯夙一半地区，押卜的儿子尼希米修造，从大卫坟地的对面，直到挖造的池子，并勇士的房屋。
After him Nehemiah the son of Azbuk, the ruler of half the district of Beth- zur, made repairs, from a place opposite the Sepulchres of David and as far as the
pool that was made and as far as the House of the Mighty Men.
3:17 其后是利未人在巴尼的儿子利宏手下修造。其旁是管理基伊拉一半地区的哈沙比雅，为他本区修造。
After him the Levites, under Rehum the son of Bani, made repairs. Next to him Hashabiah, the ruler of half the district of Keilah, made repairs for his district.
3:18 其后是利未人的弟兄，在管理基伊拉另一半地区，希拿达的儿子巴瓦伊手下修造。
After him their brothers, under Bavvai the son of Henadad, the ruler of half the district of Keilah, made repairs.
3:19 其旁是管理米斯巴、耶书亚的儿子以谢修造另一段，对着军械库的上坡、城墙转弯之处。
And next to him Ezer the son of Jeshua, the ruler of Mizpah, repaired another section, opposite the ascent to the armory at the turning of the wall.
3:20 其后是萨拜的儿子巴录，竭力修造另一段，从城墙转弯，直到大祭司以利亚实住宅的门口。
After him Baruch the son of Zabbai diligently repaired another section, from the turning of the wall to the door of the house of Eliashib the high priest.
3:21 其后是哈哥斯的孙子，乌利亚的儿子米利末修造另一段，从以利亚实住宅的门口，直到以利亚实住宅的尽头。
After him Meremoth the son of Uriah the son of Hakkoz repaired another section, from the door of the house of Eliashib even to the end of the house of Eliashib.
3:22 其后是住平原的祭司修造。
And after him the priests, the men from the plain, made repairs.
3:23 其后是便雅悯与哈述对着自己的房屋修造。其后是亚难尼的孙子，玛西雅的儿子亚撒利雅，在自己房屋的旁边修造。
After them Benjamin and Hasshub made repairs opposite their house. After them Azariah the son of Maaseiah the son of Ananiah made repairs beside his own
house.
3:24 其后是希拿达的儿子宾内修造另一段，从亚撒利雅的房屋直到城墙转弯，又到城角。
After him Binnui the son of Henadad repaired another section, from the house of Azariah to the turning of the wall, then to the corner.
3:25 乌赛的儿子巴拉对着城墙的转弯修造，又修造王上宫凸出来的城楼，靠近护卫兵院的那一段。其后是巴录的儿子毗大雅修造。
Palal the son of Uzai made repairs from in front of the turning of the wall, and on the tower that projects out from the upper house of the king, which is by the
court of the guard. After him was Pedaiah the son of Parosh.
3:26 (殿役住在俄斐勒，直到朝东水门的对面和凸出来的城楼。)
(Now the temple servants dwelt on the Ophel, as far as the point opposite the Water Gate on the east, and the tower that projects out.)
3:27 其后是提哥亚人修造另一段，对着那凸出来的大楼，直到俄斐勒的墙。
After him the Tekoites repaired another section, opposite the great tower that projects out and to the wall of the Ophel.
3:28 从马门往上，众祭司各对着自己的房屋修造。
Above the Horse Gate the priests made repairs, each one opposite his own house.
3:29 其后是音麦的儿子撒督对着自己的房屋修造。其后是守东门、示迦尼的儿子示玛雅修造。
After them Zadok the son of Immer made repairs opposite his own house. And after him Shemaiah the son of Shecaniah, the keeper of the East Gate, made
repairs.
3:30 其后是示利米雅的儿子哈拿尼雅，和萨拉的第六子哈嫩，修造另一段。其后是比利迦的儿子米书兰，对着自己的住所修造。
After him Hananiah the son of Shelemiah and Hanun the sixth son of Zalaph repaired a second section. After him Meshullam the son of Berechiah made repairs,
opposite his quarters.
3:31 其后是金匠玛基雅修造到殿役和商人的房屋，对着点阅门，直到城的角楼。
After him Malchijah, one of the goldsmiths, made repairs as far as the house of the temple servants and the merchants, opposite the Muster Gate and as far as
the ascent of the corner.
3:32 金匠与商人在城的角楼和羊门中间修造。
And between the ascent of the corner and the Sheep Gate the goldsmiths and the merchants made repairs.
尼希米记 Nehemiah 第 4 章
4:1 参巴拉听见我们建造城墙就发怒，大大恼恨，嗤笑犹大人，
And when Sanballat heard that we were building the wall, he became angry and was greatly enraged; and he mocked the Jews.
4:2 对他弟兄和撒玛利亚的军兵说，这些软弱的犹大人作什么呢？他们要为自己修筑城墙么？要献祭么？要一日完成么？要从土堆里拿出火烧的石头再立
墙么？
And he spoke to his brothers and the army of Samaria and said, What are these feeble Jews doing? Will they restore it for themselves? Will they sacrifice? Will
they finish in a day? Will they revive the stones out of the dust heaps, though they are burned?
4:3 亚扪人多比雅站在旁边，说，他们所建造的石墙，就是狐狸上去也必踩出洞来。
And Tobiah the Ammonite was beside him, and he said, Even their stone wall that they are building, if a fox were to go up on it, he would breach it.
4:4 我们的神阿，求你垂听，因为我们被藐视；求你使他们的凌辱归在他们头上，使他们在被掳到之地成为掠物。
Hear, O our God, for we are despised; and turn their reproach upon their own head, and give them as spoil in the land of captivity;
4:5 不要遮掩他们的罪孽，不要使他们的罪从你面前涂抹，因为他们在建造的人面前惹动你的怒气。
And do not cover their iniquity and do not let their sin be blotted out before You, for they made provocations before the builders.
4:6 这样，我们建造城墙，城墙就都连接起来，高至一半，因为百姓用心作工。
So we built the wall; and all the wall was joined together to half its height, for the people had a heart to work.
4:7 参巴拉、多比雅、亚拉伯人、亚扪人、亚实突人，听见耶路撒冷城墙修复的工作有进展，破裂的地方开始堵住，就甚发怒。
And when Sanballat and Tobiah and the Arabians and the Ammonites and the Ashdodites heard that the restoration of the walls of Jerusalem was advancing,
that the breaches were beginning to be closed up, they became very angry;
4:8 他们同谋要来攻击耶路撒冷，使城内扰乱。
And all of them conspired together to come and fight against Jerusalem and cause confusion in it.
4:9 然而，我们祷告我们的神，又因他们的缘故，设立看守的人，昼夜防备。
But we prayed to our God, and because of them we set a watch against them day and night.
4:10 犹大人说，灰土尚多，扛抬的人力气已经衰败，所以我们不能建造城墙。
484
And Judah said, The strength of the burden bearers fails, And the debris is great; And we are not able To build the wall.
4:11 我们的敌人且说，趁他们还不知道，还看不见，我们进入他们中间杀他们，使工作止住。
And our adversaries said, They will not know, nor even see, until we come into their midst and slay them and cause the work to stop.
4:12 那靠近敌人居住的犹大人，十次来对我们说，他们必从你们所到的各处上来攻击我们。
And when the Jews who dwelt near them came, they said to us ten times, They will come up against us from all the places that you turn to.
4:13 所以我使百姓各按家族，拿刀、拿枪、拿弓，站在城墙后边低洼的空旷处。
So I set men in the lowest places behind the wall, on the exposed areas, and I set the people by families with their swords, their spears, and their bows.
4:14 我察看了，就起来对贵胄、官长、和其余的百姓说，不要怕他们；当记念那大而可畏的主，要为你们的弟兄、儿女、妻子、家产争战。
And when I saw the situation, I rose up and said to the nobles and the rulers and the rest of the people, Do not be afraid of them; remember the great and
awesome Lord, and fight for your brothers, your sons and your daughters, your wives and your houses.
4:15 仇敌听见我们知道他们的计谋，又见神破坏他们的计划，就不来了；我们都回到城墙那里，各作各的工。
And when our enemies heard that their counsel was known to us and that God frustrated it, we all returned to the wall, each man to his work.
4:16 从那日起，我的仆人一半作工，一半拿枪、拿盾牌、拿弓、穿铠甲；官长都站在犹大家众人的后边。
And from that day half of my servants labored in the work, and half of them held the spears and the shields and the bows and the armor; and the rulers were
behind all the house of Judah.
4:17 建造城墙的、扛抬重物的，都佩带兵器，一手作工，一手拿兵器。
Those who built the wall and those who carried burdens took the loads with one hand doing the work and with the other holding a weapon.
4:18 建造的人都腰间佩刀建造，吹角的人在我旁边。
And as for the builders, each had his sword strapped to his side, and so they built; and he who sounded the trumpet was beside me.
4:19 我对贵胄、官长、和其余的百姓说，这工程浩大，我们在城墙上彼此相离甚远；
And I said to the nobles, the rulers, and the rest of the people, The work is great and large, and we are separated on the wall, each far from the other.
4:20 你们听见角声在那里，就要聚集到我们那里去。我们的神必为我们争战。
In whatever place you hear the sound of the trumpet, gather yourselves to us there. Our God will fight for us.
4:21 于是，我们作工，其中一半拿枪，从天亮直到星宿出现的时候。
So we labored in the work; and half of them held spears from the start of dawn until the stars came out.
4:22 那时，我又对百姓说，各人和他的仆人当在耶路撒冷城中住宿，好在夜间护卫我们，白昼作工。
I also said to the people at that time, Let every man and his servant spend the nights inside Jerusalem so that they may be a guard for us by night and work by
day.
4:23 这样，我和我的弟兄、仆人、并跟从我的护卫兵，都不脱衣服，各人右手拿着兵器。
So neither I nor my brothers nor my servants nor the men of the guard who followed me, none of us took off our clothes; each had his weapon at his right hand.
尼希米记 Nehemiah 第 5 章
5:1 百姓和他们的妻子大大呼号，埋怨他们的弟兄犹大人。
And there was a great cry of the people and their wives against their brothers the Jews,
5:2 有的说，我们和儿女人口众多，要去得粮食吃饱活命；
For there were some who said, With our sons and our daughters we are many; therefore we must get grain that we may eat and live.
5:3 有的说，我们典了田地、葡萄园、房屋，要在饥荒中得粮食；
And there were some who said, We have pledged our fields and our vineyards and our houses that we might get grain in this famine.
5:4 有的说，我们已经用田地、葡萄园作抵押，借了钱给王纳税。
And there were some who said, We have borrowed money against our fields and our vineyards for the king's tribute.
5:5 其实我们的肉身与我们弟兄的肉身一样，我们的儿女与他们的儿女一般；看哪，我们将要使儿女作人的仆婢。我们的女儿已有为婢的；我们无力拯救，
因为我们的田地、葡萄园，已经归了别人。
Yet now our flesh is like the flesh of our brothers, our children like their children; and now we are bringing our sons and daughters into bondage as slaves. And
some of our daughters have already been brought into bondage; and it is not in our power to deliver them, for our fields and vineyards belong to others.
5:6 我听见他们的呼号和这些话，便甚发怒。
And I was very angry when I heard their cry and these words.
5:7 我心里筹画了，就斥责贵胄和官长，说，你们各人竟向自己的弟兄索取利息！于是我安排大会攻击他们。
And when I had considered this matter in my heart, I rebuked the nobles and the rulers and said to them, You men are charging interest, each man against his
brother! And I set a great assembly against them.
5:8 我对他们说，我们尽力赎回了我们的弟兄，就是卖与外邦的犹大人；你们还要卖弟兄，使我们赎回来么？他们静默不语，无话可答。
And I said to them, We have bought back our brothers the Jews who have been sold to the nations according to the best of our ability. So would you even sell
your brothers that they would have to be sold back to us? And they held their peace and could find not a word to answer.
5:9 我又说，你们所行的不善。为着避免我们仇敌外邦人的毁谤，你们行事不当敬畏我们的神么？
Then I said, The thing that you are doing is not good. Should you not walk in the fear of our God because of the reproach of the nations our enemies?
5:10 我和我的弟兄与仆人也将银钱粮食借给百姓；我们大家都放弃收取利息罢。
And even I, my brothers, and my servants lend them money and grain. Let us now abandon such taking of interest.
5:11 如今我劝你们将他们的田地、葡萄园、橄榄园、房屋，并向他们所取的银钱、粮食、新酒和新油，百分之一的利息，都归还他们。
Restore now to them, as of today, their fields, their vineyards, their olive groves, and their houses, as well as the hundredth part of the money and of the grain,
new wine, and fresh oil that you charge them as interest.
5:12 众人说，我们必归还，不向他们索要，必照你所说的去行。我就召了祭司来，叫众人起誓，必照着所应许的去行。
And they said, We will restore it, and we will require nothing from them; so will we do, even as you say. Then I called for the priests and took an oath from them
that they would do according to this promise.
485
5:13 我也抖着胸前的衣襟，说，凡不成就这应许的，愿神照样抖他离开家产和他劳碌得来的，直到抖空了。会众都说，阿们；又赞美耶和华。百姓就照着
所应许的去行。
I also shook out the lap of my garment and said, May God shake out in the same way every man from his house and from his possessions who does not perform
this promise; even so may he be shaken out and emptied. And all the assembly said, Amen; and they praised Jehovah. And the people acted according to this
promise.
5:14 自从王派我作犹大地的省长，就是从亚达薛西王二十年，直到三十二年，共十二年之久，我与我弟兄都没有吃省长的俸禄。
Moreover from the time that the king appointed me to be governor in the land of Judah, from the twentieth year even to the thirty-second year of Artaxerxes the
king, twelve years, I and my brothers did not eat the food appointed for the governor.
5:15 在我以前的省长加重百姓的担子，除了征收银子四十舍客勒以外，又索要粮食和酒，就是他们的仆人也辖制百姓；但我因敬畏神，不这样行。
But the former governors, who were before me, laid heavy burdens on the people and took from them food and wine, besides forty shekels of silver; even their
servants tyrannized the people. But I did not do so, because of the fear of God.
5:16 并且我坚定持续作城墙的工，并没有置买田地；我的仆人也都聚集在那里作工。
And I also applied myself to the work on this wall. And we did not acquire fields, and all my servants were gathered there for the work.
5:17 除了从四围外邦中到我们这里来的人以外，有犹大平民和官长一百五十人，在我席上吃饭。
And there were at my table one hundred fifty men, Jews and rulers, besides those who came to us from the nations that surrounded us.
5:18 每日预备的有一只公牛，六只肥羊，又为我预备一些飞禽；每十日一次，多预备各样的酒。虽然如此，我并不要省长的俸禄，因为百姓服役甚重。
And what was prepared for one day was one ox and six choice sheep; also fowl was prepared for me, as well as all kinds of wine in abundance every ten days.
Yet for this I did not demand the food appointed for the governor, for the service was heavy upon this people.
5:19 我的神阿，求你记念我为这百姓所行的一切事，以善待我。
Remember me, O my God, for good, all that I have done for this people.
尼希米记 Nehemiah 第 6 章
6:1 参巴拉、多比雅、亚拉伯人基善、和我们其余的仇敌，听见我已经建造了城墙，其中没有破裂之处，(不过到那时我还没有在城门上安门扇，)
And when it was reported to Sanballat and Tobiah and Geshem the Arabian and the rest of our enemies that I had built the wall and that no breach remained in
it (though as yet I had not set up the doors in the gates),
6:2 参巴拉和基善就打发人来见我，说，请你来，我们在阿挪平原的一个村庄相会。他们却图谋害我。
Sanballat and Geshem sent word to me, saying, Come; let us meet together among the villages in the plain of Ono. But they intended to do me harm.
6:3 于是我差遣人去见他们，说，我现在办理大工，不能下去。我为何放开工作，下去见你们，使工作停顿呢？
And I sent messengers to them, saying, I am doing a great work and cannot come down. Why should the work cease while I leave it to come down to you?
6:4 他们四次这样打发人来见我，我都如此回答。
And they sent word to me four times in this way, and I answered them in this way.
6:5 参巴拉第五次这样打发仆人来见我，手里拿着未封的信，
Then Sanballat sent his servant to me in this way the fifth time, with an open letter in his hand,
6:6 信上写着说，外邦人中有风声，基善也说，你和犹大人谋反，因此你建造城墙。照他们这些话，你要作他们的王。
In which was written: It is reported among the nations, and Geshem says it, that you and the Jews intend to rebel; therefore you are building the wall. And,
according to these words, you are to be their king.
6:7 你又设立申言者在耶路撒冷指着你宣告说，在犹大有王了！现在这些话必传与王知；所以请你来，与我们彼此商议。
And you have also set up prophets to declare in Jerusalem concerning you, saying, There is a king in Judah! And now a report will be made to the king according
to these words. Come now therefore, and let us take counsel together.
6:8 我就差遣人去见他，说，你所说的这些事，一概没有，是你自己心里捏造的。
Then I sent word to him, saying, None of these things that you are saying have happened; rather you have invented them in your own heart.
6:9 他们都要使我们惧怕，意思说，他们的手必软弱不能作工，以致工作不能成就。现在，神阿，求你坚固我的手。
For all of them tried to frighten us, thinking, Their hands will be weakened from working, and it will not be done. But now strengthen my hands!
6:10 我到了米希大别的孙子，第来雅的儿子示玛雅家；那时，他闭门不出。他说，我们不如在神的殿，在殿堂中会面，将殿堂的门关锁；因为他们要来杀
你，就是在夜里来杀你。
And I went to the house of Shemaiah the son of Delaiah, the son of Mehetabel, who had shut himself up. And he said, Let us meet together in the house of God,
within the temple; and let us shut the doors of the temple, for they are coming to slay you; indeed at night they are coming to slay you.
6:11 我说，像我这样的人岂要逃跑呢？像我这样的人岂能进入殿里保全生命呢？我不进去！
But I said, Should a man like me flee? And who, being like me, would go into the temple to save his life? I will not go in.
6:12 我看出神并没有差遣他，是他自己这样申言攻击我，是多比雅和参巴拉贿买了他。
Then I perceived that surely God had not sent him but that he spoke this prophecy against me and that Tobiah and Sanballat had hired him.
6:13 贿买他的缘故，是要叫我惧怕，依从他这样行，以致犯罪，他们就有理由传扬恶言毁谤我。
He had been hired for this reason, that I would be frightened and that I would act in such a way as to sin; then they would have cause for an evil report in order to
reproach me.
6:14 我的神阿，求你记得多比雅和参巴拉，照着他们所作的这些事报应他们，也要记得女申言者挪亚底和其余的申言者，他们想要叫我惧怕。
Remember, O my God, Tobiah and Sanballat according to these works of theirs, and also the prophetess Noadiah and the rest of the prophets, who tried to
frighten me.
6:15 以禄月二十五日，城墙修完了，共修了五十二天。
So the wall was completed on the twenty-fifth day of the month of Elul, in fifty-two days.
6:16 我们一切的仇敌听见了，四围的外邦人都惧怕，愁眉不展；因为知道这工作完成是出于我们的神。
And when all our enemies heard of it, all the nations that surrounded us were afraid and fell very low in their own eyes, for they knew that this work was done
with the help of our God.
6:17 再者，在那些日子，犹大的贵胄屡次寄信与多比雅，多比雅也来信与他们。
Moreover in those days the nobles of Judah sent many letters unto Tobiah, and the letters of Tobiah came to them;
486
6:18 在犹大有许多人与多比雅结盟，因他是亚拉儿子示迦尼的女婿，并且他的儿子约哈难娶了比利迦儿子米书兰的女儿为妻。
For many in Judah were sworn to his cause because he was the son-in-law of Shecaniah the son of Arah; and his son Jehohanan had taken the daughter of
Meshullam the son of Berechiah as his wife.
6:19 他们常在我面前说多比雅的善行，也将我的话传与他。多比雅又寄一些信来，要叫我惧怕。
They also spoke of his good deeds before me and reported my words to him. And Tobiah sent letters to intimidate me.
尼希米记 Nehemiah 第 7 章
7:1 城墙建成，我安了门扇，守门的、歌唱的、和利未人都已派定。
And when the wall was built and I had set up the doors, and the gatekeepers and the singers and Levites had been appointed,
7:2 我就吩咐我的弟兄哈拿尼，和营楼长哈拿尼雅管理耶路撒冷，因为哈拿尼雅是个忠信的人，又敬畏神过于众人。
I gave my brother Hanani, as well as Hananiah the commander of the citadel, charge over Jerusalem, for he was a faithful man and feared God more than most.
7:3 我对他们说，等到日头暖和，才可开耶路撒冷的城门；人尚站着看守的时候，就要把门关好，你要上闩；也当派耶路撒冷的居民，各按班次看守自己
房屋对面之处。
And I said to them, Do not let the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun is hot; and while some are standing guard, let them shut the doors, and you bar
them; and appoint watches from the inhabitants of Jerusalem, each at his own watch and each opposite his own house.
7:4 城广大，其中的民却稀少，房屋还没有建造。
Now the city was wide and large; but the people were few in it and no houses had been built.
7:5 我的神使我心里起意，招聚贵胄、官长和百姓，要照家谱登记。我找着第一次上来之人的家谱，其上写着：
Then my God put it into my heart to assemble the nobles and the rulers and the people to be enrolled by genealogy. And I found the book of the genealogy of
those who had first come up, and I found this written in it:
7:6 巴比伦王尼布甲尼撒从前所迁徙之犹大省的人，现在他们的子孙从被掳到之地上到耶路撒冷和犹大，各归本城，这些人记在下面。
These are the children of the province who went up out of the captivity of those who had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had
carried away and who returned to Jerusalem and to Judah, each man to his city;
7:7 他们是同着所罗巴伯、耶书亚、尼希米、亚撒利雅、拉米、拿哈玛尼、末底改、必珊、米斯毗列、比革瓦伊、尼宏、巴拿回来的。以色列民中男子的
数目记在下面：
Who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. The number of the men of
the people of Israel:
7:8 巴录的子孙二千一百七十二名；
The children of Parosh, two thousand one hundred seventy-two.
7:9 示法提雅的子孙三百七十二名；
The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy-two.
7:10 亚拉的子孙六百五十二名；
The children of Arah, six hundred fifty-two.
7:11 巴哈摩押的子孙，属耶书亚和约押子孙的，二千八百一十八名；
The children of Pahath-moab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand eight hundred eighteen.
7:12 以拦的子孙一千二百五十四名；
The children of Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four.
7:13 萨土的子孙八百四十五名；
The children of Zattu, eight hundred forty-five.
7:14 萨改的子孙七百六十名；
The children of Zaccai, seven hundred sixty.
7:15 宾内的子孙六百四十八名；
The children of Binnui, six hundred forty-eight.
7:16 比拜的子孙六百二十八名；
The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty-eight.
7:17 押甲的子孙二千三百二十二名；
The children of Azgad, two thousand three hundred twenty-two.
7:18 亚多尼干的子孙六百六十七名；
The children of Adonikam, six hundred sixty-seven.
7:19 比革瓦伊的子孙二千零六十七名；
The children of Bigvai, two thousand sixty-seven.
7:20 亚丁的子孙六百五十五名；
The children of Adin, six hundred fifty-five.
7:21 亚特的子孙，属希西家子孙的，九十八名；
The children of Ater, of Hezekiah, ninety-eight.
7:22 哈顺的子孙三百二十八名；
The children of Hashum, three hundred twenty-eight.
7:23 比赛的子孙三百二十四名；
The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty-four.
7:24 哈拉的子孙一百一十二名；
The children of Hariph, one hundred twelve.
7:25 基遍人九十五名；
The children of Gibeon, ninety-five.
7:26 伯利恒人和尼陀法人共一百八十八名；
487
The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, one hundred eighty-eight.
7:27 亚拿突人一百二十八名；
The men of Anathoth, one hundred twenty-eight.
7:28 伯亚斯玛弗人四十二名；
The men of Beth-azmaveth, forty- two.
7:29 基列耶琳人、基非拉人、比录人共七百四十三名；
The men of Kiriath-jearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred forty- three.
7:30 拉玛人和迦巴人共六百二十一名；
The men of Ramah and Geba, six hundred twenty-one.
7:31 默玛人一百二十二名；
The men of Michmas, one hundred twenty-two.
7:32 伯特利人和艾人共一百二十三名；
The men of Bethel and Ai, one hundred twenty-three.
7:33 另一个尼波的人五十二名；
The men of the other Nebo, fifty- two.
7:34 另一个以拦的子孙一千二百五十四名；
The children of the other Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four.
7:35 哈琳的子孙三百二十名；
The children of Harim, three hundred twenty.
7:36 耶利哥人三百四十五名；
The children of Jericho, three hundred forty-five.
7:37 罗德人、哈第人、阿挪人共七百二十一名；
The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty-one.
7:38 西拿人三千九百三十名。
The children of Senaah, three thousand nine hundred thirty.
7:39 祭司的数目记在下面：耶书亚家耶大雅的子孙九百七十三名；
The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy-three.
7:40 音麦的子孙一千零五十二名；
The children of Immer, one thousand fifty-two.
7:41 巴施户珥的子孙一千二百四十七名；
The children of Pashhur, one thousand two hundred forty-seven.
7:42 哈琳的子孙一千零一十七名。
The children of Harim, one thousand seventeen.
7:43 利未人有耶书亚和甲篾的子孙，属何达威雅子孙的，共七十四名。
The Levites: the children of Jeshua, of Kadmiel, of the children of Hodevah, seventy-four.
7:44 歌唱的有亚萨的子孙一百四十八名。
The singers: the children of Asaph, one hundred forty-eight.
7:45 守门的有沙龙的子孙、亚特的子孙、达们的子孙、亚谷的子孙、哈底大的子孙、朔拜的子孙，共一百三十八名。
The gatekeepers: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, the children of Shobai, one
hundred thirty-eight.
7:46 殿役有西哈的子孙、哈苏巴的子孙、答巴俄的子孙、
The temple servants: the children of Ziha, the children of Hasupha, the children of Tabbaoth,
7:47 基绿的子孙、西亚的子孙、巴顿的子孙、
The children of Keros, the children of Sia, the children of Padon,
7:48 利巴拿的子孙、哈迦巴的子孙、萨买的子孙、
The children of Lebanah, the children of Hagaba, the children of Salmai,
7:49 哈难的子孙、吉德的子孙、迦哈的子孙、
The children of Hanan, the children of Giddel, the children of Gahar,
7:50 利亚雅的子孙、利汛的子孙、尼哥大的子孙、
The children of Reaiah, the children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda,
7:51 迦散的子孙、乌撒的子孙、巴西亚的子孙、
The children of Gazzam, the children of Uzza, the children of Paseah,
7:52 比赛的子孙、米乌宁的子孙、尼普心的子孙、
The children of Besai, the children of Meunim, the children of Nephushesim,
7:53 巴卜的子孙、哈古巴的子孙、哈忽的子孙、
The children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur,
7:54 巴洗律的子孙、米希大的子孙、哈沙的子孙、
The children of Bazlith, the children of Mehida, the children of Harsha,
7:55 巴柯的子孙、西西拉的子孙、答玛的子孙、
The children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Temah,
7:56 尼细亚的子孙、哈提法的子孙。
The children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha.
7:57 所罗门仆人的子孙有琐太的子孙、琐斐列的子孙、比路大的子孙、
The children of Solomon's servants: the children of Sotai, the children of Sophereth, the children of Perida,
7:58 雅拉的子孙、达昆的子孙、吉德的子孙、
The children of Jaala, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel,
488
7:59 示法提雅的子孙、哈替的子孙、玻黑列哈斯巴音的子孙、亚们的子孙。
The children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth- hazzebaim, the children of Amon.
7:60 殿役和所罗门仆人的子孙共三百九十二名。
All the temple servants and the children of Solomon's servants were three hundred ninety-two.
7:61 从特米拉、特哈萨、基绿、亚顿、音麦上来，却不能指明他们的宗族和世系是不是以色列人的，记在下面：
And these were those who went up from Tel-melah, Tel-harsha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer; but they could not give evidence of their fathers' houses nor their
descendants, whether they were of Israel:
7:62 第来雅的子孙、多比雅的子孙、尼哥大的子孙，共六百四十二名。
The children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of Nekoda, six hundred forty-two.
7:63 祭司中有哈巴雅的子孙、哈哥斯的子孙、和巴西莱的子孙；巴西莱因娶了基列人巴西莱的女儿为妻，所以按其名叫巴西莱。
And of the priests: the children of Hobaiah, the children of Hakkoz, the children of Barzillai, who took a wife from among the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite
and was called after their name.
7:64 这些人在家谱的记载中寻查自己的记录，却寻不着，因此算为不洁，不准供祭司的职任。
These sought their registry among those who were enrolled by genealogy, but they were not found; therefore they were considered defiled and were excluded
from the priesthood.
7:65 省长对他们说，不可吃至圣的物，直到有用乌陵和土明决疑的祭司兴起来。
And the governor told them that they should not eat of the most holy things until a priest stood up with Urim and Thummim.
7:66 全会众共有四万二千三百六十名。
The whole assembly together was forty-two thousand three hundred sixty,
7:67 此外，还有他们的仆婢七千三百三十七名，又有歌唱的男女二百四十五名。
Besides their male servants and their female servants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty-seven; and they had two hundred forty-five
male singers and female singers.
7:68 他们有马七百三十六匹，骡二百四十五匹，
Their horses were seven hundred thirty-six; their mules, two hundred forty- five;
7:69 骆驼四百三十五只，驴六千七百二十匹。
Their camels, four hundred thirty- five; their donkeys, six thousand seven hundred twenty.
7:70 有些宗族的首领为工程捐助。省长捐入库中的有金子一千达利克，碗五十个，祭司的礼服五百三十件。
And some from among the heads of fathers' houses gave to the work. The governor gave to the treasury one thousand darics of gold, fifty basins, and five
hundred thirty priests' garments.
7:71 宗族的首领捐入工程库的有金子二万达利克，银子二千二百弥拿。
And some of the heads of fathers' houses gave into the treasury of the work twenty thousand darics of gold and two thousand two hundred minas of silver.
7:72 其余百姓所捐的有金子二万达利克，银子二千弥拿，祭司的礼服六十七件。
And that which the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand darics of gold and two thousand minas of silver and sixty-seven priests' garments.
7:73 于是祭司、利未人、守门的、歌唱的、民中的一些人、殿役、并以色列众人，都住在自己的城里。七月到了，以色列人住在自己的城里。
So the priests and the Levites and the gatekeepers and the singers and some of the people and the temple servants and all Israel dwelt in their cities. And when
the seventh month came, the children of Israel were in their cities.
尼希米记 Nehemiah 第 8 章
8:1 众民如同一人，聚集在水门前的宽阔处，请经学家以斯拉将摩西的律法书带来，这律法是耶和华吩咐以色列人遵守的。
And all the people gathered as one man in the open area that was before the Water Gate. And they told Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses,
which Jehovah had commanded to Israel.
8:2 七月初一日，祭司以斯拉将律法书带到男女会众、并一切听了能明白的人面前。
And Ezra the priest brought the law before the assembly, both men and women, and all who could hear with understanding, on the first day of the seventh
month.
8:3 他在水门前的宽阔处，从清早到晌午，在众男女，并一切听了能明白的人面前念这律法书。众民侧耳而听。
And he read in it before the open area that was before the Water Gate from first light until midday in the presence of the men and the women and those who
could understand. And the ears of all the people were attentive to the book of the law.
8:4 经学家以斯拉站在为这事特制的木台上；玛他提雅、示玛、亚奈雅、乌利亚、希勒家、和玛西雅站在他的右边；毗大雅、米沙利、玛基雅、哈顺、哈
拔大拿、撒迦利亚、和米书兰站在他的左边。
And Ezra the scribe stood upon a wooden platform that had been made for that purpose; and beside him stood Mattithiah and Shema and Anaiah and Uriah
and Hilkiah and Maaseiah at his right hand; and at his left hand, Pedaiah and Mishael and Malchijah and Hashum and Hashbaddanah, Zechariah, and
Meshullam.
8:5 以斯拉站在众民以上，在众民眼前展开这书；他一展开，众民就都站起来。
And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people (for he was above all the people); and when he opened it, all the people stood up.
8:6 以斯拉颂赞耶和华至大的神；众民都举手应声说，阿们，阿们；就低头，面伏于地，敬拜耶和华。
And Ezra blessed Jehovah the great God; and all the people answered, Amen, Amen, lifting up their hands. And they bowed their heads and worshipped
Jehovah with their faces to the ground.
8:7 耶书亚、巴尼、示利比、雅悯、亚谷、沙比太、荷第雅、玛西雅、基利他、亚撒利雅、约撒拔、哈难、毗莱雅、和利未人，帮助百姓明白律法；百姓
都站在自己的地方。
Also Jeshua and Bani and Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai, Hodiah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan, Pelaiah, and the Levites helped the people
understand the law; and the people stood in their place.
8:8 他们念神的律法书，翻译并讲明意思，使百姓明白所念的。
And they read in the book, in the law of God, interpreting and giving the sense, so that they understood the reading.
489
8:9 省长尼希米和作祭司的经学家以斯拉，并帮助百姓明白的利未人，对众民说，今日是耶和华你们神的圣日，不要悲哀哭泣。这是因为众民听见律法书
上的话都哭了。
And Nehemiah, who was the governor, and Ezra the priest and scribe, and the Levites who helped the people understand said to all the people, This day is holy
unto Jehovah your God; do not mourn or weep. For all the people wept when they heard the words of the law.
8:10 他又对他们说，你们去吃肥美的，喝甘甜的，有不能预备的就分给他，因为今日是我们主的圣日。你们不要忧愁，因耶和华的喜乐是你们的力量。
Then he said to them, Go your way; eat the fat, and drink the sweet wine, and send portions to him for whom nothing has been prepared; for this day is holy to
our Lord. And do not be grieved, for the joy of Jehovah is your strength.
8:11 于是利未人使众民静默，说，不要作声，因今日是圣日；也不要忧愁。
So the Levites stilled all the people, saying, Be quiet, for the day is holy; and do not be grieved.
8:12 众民都去吃喝，也分给人，大大快乐，因为他们明白所指示他们的话。
And all the people went their way to eat and to drink and to send portions and to make great rejoicing, because they had understood the words that were
declared to them.
8:13 次日，众民宗族的首领、祭司、和利未人，都聚集到经学家以斯拉那里，要留心听律法书上的话。
And on the second day the heads of fathers' houses of all the people, the priests, and the Levites were gathered to Ezra the scribe, that is, in order to gain insight
into the words of the law.
8:14 他们见律法上写着，耶和华藉摩西吩咐以色列人要在七月节住棚，
And they found it written in the law that Jehovah had commanded through Moses that the children of Israel dwell in booths during the feast in the seventh month,
8:15 并要在各城和耶路撒冷宣扬传布说，你们当上山去，将橄榄树、野橄榄树、番石榴树、棕树、和各样茂密树的枝叶取来，照着所写的搭棚。
And that they publish and proclaim in all their cities and in Jerusalem, saying, Go out to the mountain and bring olive branches and wild olive branches and
myrtle branches and palm branches and branches of other leafy trees to make booths, as it is written.
8:16 于是百姓出去，取了树枝来，各人在自己的房顶上，或院内，或神殿的院内，或水门的宽阔处，或以法莲门的宽阔处搭棚。
So the people went out and brought them, and all made booths for themselves on their roofs and in their courts and in the courts of the house of God and in the
open area before the Water Gate and in the open area before the Gate of Ephraim.
8:17 被掳归回的全会众就搭棚，住在棚里。从嫩的儿子约书亚的日子，直到那日，以色列人没有这样行过；于是众人大大喜乐。
And all the assembly of those who returned from the captivity made booths and dwelt in the booths, for since the days of Jeshua the son of Nun to that day the
children of Israel had not done so; and there was very great rejoicing.
8:18 从头一天直到末一天，以斯拉每日念神的律法书。众人守节七日，第八日照例有严肃会。
And day by day, from the first day to the last day, he read in the book of the law of God. And they held the feast seven days, and on the eighth day there was a
solemn assembly, according to the ordinance.
尼希米记 Nehemiah 第 9 章
9:1 这月二十四日，以色列人聚集禁食，身穿麻衣，头蒙尘土。
Now on the twenty-fourth day of this month the children of Israel were assembled with fasting and in sackcloth, with earth on their heads.
9:2 以色列的后裔就与一切外邦人离绝，站着承认自己的罪和列祖的罪孽。
And the descendants of Israel separated themselves from all foreigners, and they stood and confessed their sins and the iniquities of their fathers.
9:3 那日四分之一的时间，他们站在自己的地方念耶和华他们神的律法书；又四分之一的时间，他们认罪并敬拜耶和华他们的神。
And they stood up in their place and read in the book of the law of Jehovah their God for a fourth part of the day, and for another fourth part they confessed and
worshipped Jehovah their God.
9:4 耶书亚、巴尼、甲篾、示巴尼、布尼、示利比、巴尼、基拿尼，站在利未人的台上，大声哀求耶和华他们的神。
Then Jeshua and Bani, Kadmiel, Shebaniah, Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani, and Chenani stood up on the Levites' platform and cried out with a loud voice to Jehovah
their God.
9:5 利未人耶书亚、甲篾、巴尼、哈沙尼、示利比、荷第雅、示巴尼、毗他希雅说，你们要站起来，颂赞耶和华，祂从亘古到永远是你们的神：耶和华阿，
你荣耀的名是当受颂赞的，当被高举超越一切颂赞和赞美。
Then the Levites, Jeshua, and Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabneiah, Sherebiah, Hodiah, Shebaniah, and Pethahiah, said, Stand up and bless Jehovah your God from
eternity to eternity: And may Your glorious name be blessed, Which is exalted above all blessing and praise.
9:6 你，惟独你是耶和华；你造了天和天上的天，并天上的万象，地和地上的万物，海和海中所有的；这一切都是你所保存的；天军也都敬拜你。
You are Jehovah, You alone; You have made heaven, The heaven of heavens with all its host, The earth and all that is on it, The seas and all that is in them; And
You give life to all of them; And the host of heaven worships You.
9:7 你是耶和华神，曾拣选亚伯兰，领他出迦勒底的吾珥，给他起名叫亚伯拉罕。
You are Jehovah God, Who chose Abram And brought him forth from Ur of the Chaldees And gave him the name Abraham.
9:8 你见他在你面前心里忠信，就与他立约，要把迦南人、赫人、亚摩利人、比利洗人、耶布斯人、革迦撒人之地赐给他，赐给他的后裔。你应验了你的
应许，因为你是公义的。
And You found his heart faithful before You And made a covenant with him, To give him the land of the Canaanites, The Hittites, the Amorites, And the Perizzites
and the Jebusites and the Girgashites, To give it to his seed. And You have fulfilled Your promises, For You are righteous.
9:9 你看见我们列祖在埃及所受的困苦，垂听他们在红海边的哀求，
And You saw the affliction of our fathers in Egypt And heard their cry by the Red Sea,
9:10 就施行神迹和奇事在法老和他一切臣仆，并他那地的众民身上；因为你知道他们向我们列祖行事狂傲；你也使自己得了名声，正如今日一样。
And You performed signs and wonders on Pharaoh, And on all his servants, and on all the people of his land; For You knew that they acted arrogantly toward
them; And You made Yourself a name, as it is to this day.
9:11 你又在我们列祖面前把海分开，使他们在海中干地上走过；却将追赶他们的人抛在深海，如石头抛在大水中。
And You divided the sea before them, So that they might pass through the midst of the sea on the dry land; But their pursuers You threw into the depths, Like a
stone into mighty waters.
9:12 你日间在云柱中引导他们，夜间在火柱中照亮他们当行的路。
Then in a pillar of cloud You led them by day, And in a pillar of fire by night, To light the way for them, On which they should go.
490
9:13 你也降临在西乃山，从天上与他们说话，赐给他们公正的典章、真实的律法、美好的律例和诫命，
And You came down upon Mount Sinai And spoke with them from heaven. And You gave them just ordinances and true laws, Good statutes and
commandments.
9:14 又使他们知道你的圣安息日，并藉你仆人摩西吩咐他们遵行诫命、律例和律法。
And You made known to them Your holy Sabbath And prescribed commandments and statutes and a law for them Through Moses Your servant.
9:15 你从天上赐下粮食充他们的饥，从磐石使水流出解他们的渴；又叫他们进去得你起誓赐给他们的地。
And You gave them bread from heaven For their hunger, And You made water come forth from a rock for them For their thirst. And You told them to enter In order
to possess the land, Which You swore To give them.
9:16 但他们，就是我们的列祖，行事狂傲，硬着颈项不听从你的诫命；
But they and our fathers acted arrogantly And stiffened their neck and would not listen to Your commandments.
9:17 不肯听从，也不记念你在他们中间所行的奇事，竟硬着颈项，自立首领，要回埃及去受奴役。但你是乐意饶恕人的神，有恩典，有怜恤，不轻易发怒，
有丰盛的慈爱，所以你没有丢弃他们。
And they refused to listen And would not remember Your wondrous acts, Which You had done among them. And they stiffened their neck and appointed a
leader To return to their slavery in Egypt. But You are a God of forgiveness, Gracious and compassionate, Long-suffering and abounding in lovingkindness; So
You did not forsake them.
9:18 甚至当他们为自己铸一只牛犊，说，这是你的神，就是那领你从埃及上来的，因而大大亵慢了你；
Indeed when they made for themselves A molten calf, And said, This is your God, Who brought you up out of Egypt, And showed great contempt;
9:19 你还是大施怜恤，没有把他们丢弃在旷野。日间云柱没有离开他们，仍引导他们行路；夜间火柱也没有离开他们，仍照亮他们当行的路。
You, in Your great compassion, Did not forsake them in the wilderness; The pillar of cloud did not depart from over them by day, To guide them on their way; Nor
the pillar of fire by night, To light the way for them, on which they should go.
9:20 你也赐下你良善的灵指教他们；没有扣住吗哪不给他们糊口，并赐水给他们解渴。
And You gave Your good Spirit To instruct them, And did not withhold Your manna from their mouth, And gave them water for their thirst.
9:21 你在旷野四十年供养他们，他们就一无所缺；他们的衣服没有穿破，脚也没有走肿。
Indeed for forty years You sustained them in the wilderness; They did not lack; Their clothes did not wear out, And their feet did not swell.
9:22 你将列国和诸民赐给他们，将这些分给他们作疆界；他们就得了西宏之地、希实本王之地、和巴珊王噩之地。
And You gave them kingdoms and peoples, And divided these to them as boundaries. So they took possession of the land of Sihon, even the land of the king of
Heshbon, And the land of Og the king of Bashan.
9:23 你也使他们的子孙繁增，如同天上的星那样多，带他们到你所应许他们列祖进入得为业之地。
And their children You multiplied Like the stars of heaven, And You brought them into the land That You told their fathers To enter and possess.
9:24 他们的子孙进去得了那地；你在他们面前制伏那地的居民，就是迦南人；将迦南人和其君王，并那地的诸民，都交在他们手里，让他们任意对待。
And the children entered And possessed the land; And You subdued before them The inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites; And You gave them into their hand,
With their kings and the peoples of the land, That they might do with them as they pleased.
9:25 他们攻取了坚固的城邑、肥美的地土，得着了充满各样美物的房屋、凿成的水井、葡萄园、橄榄园、并许多果树为业；他们就吃而得饱，身体肥胖，
因你大大的善待，得以安逸享乐。
And they took their fortified cities And a fertile land, And took possession of their houses, Full of every good thing, Hewn cisterns, vineyards, and olive groves, And
fruit trees in abundance; And they ate and were satisfied and grew fat, And they delighted in Your great goodness.
9:26 然而，他们竟不顺从，背叛了你，将你的律法丢在背后，杀害那些向他们作见证，要使他们归向你的众申言者，大大亵慢了你。
But they were disobedient and rebelled against You And cast Your law behind their back. And they slew Your prophets, Who had testified against them In order
to turn them back to You; And they showed great contempt.
9:27 所以你将他们交在敌人的手中，困迫他们；他们遭困迫的时候哀求你，你就从天上垂听，照你的大怜恤赐给他们拯救者，救他们脱离敌人的手。
Therefore You delivered them into the hand of their oppressors, And they oppressed them; But when they cried out to You in the time of their oppression, You
heard from heaven, And according to Your great compassions You gave them deliverers, Who delivered them from the hand of their oppressors.
9:28 但他们得安息之后，又在你面前行恶；你就丢弃他们在仇敌的手中，使仇敌辖制他们。然而他们转回哀求你，你仍从天上垂听，屡次照你的怜恤拯救
他们。
Then after they had rest, They again did evil before You; And You abandoned them to the hand of their enemies, And they had dominion over them. But when
they cried out to You again, You heard from heaven And delivered them many times According to Your compassions.
9:29 你警戒他们，要使他们归服你的律法；他们却行事狂傲，不听从你的诫命，干犯你的典章，(人若行这些，必因这些活着，)扭转肩头，硬着颈项，不
肯听从。
And You testified against them in order to turn them back to Your law, But they acted arrogantly and would not listen to Your commandments; And they sinned
against Your ordinances (By which, if a man does them, he will live), And they turned a stubborn shoulder And stiffened their neck and would not listen.
9:30 你多年宽容他们，又用你的灵藉你的众申言者警戒他们，他们仍不听从；所以你将他们交在各地之民的手中。
Yet You bore with them For many years And testified to them by Your Spirit Through Your prophets, But they would not give heed; So You delivered them Into the
hand of the peoples of the lands.
9:31 然而因你丰盛的怜恤，你没有把他们灭尽；你没有丢弃他们，因为你是有恩典、有怜恤的神。
Nevertheless in Your abundant compassions You did not make an end of them; And You did not forsake them, For You are a gracious and compassionate God.
9:32 我们的神阿，你是伟大、有能、可畏、守约并施慈爱的神；我们的君王、首领、祭司、申言者、列祖，和你的众民，从亚述列王的日子直到今日所遭
遇的一切苦难，现在求你不要看为小。
And now, our God, The great, the mighty, and the awesome God, Who keeps covenant and lovingkindness, Do not let all the hardship seem small in Your sight
Which has come upon us, on our kings, on our rulers, And on our priests and on our prophets And on our fathers and on all Your people, Since the days of the
kings of Assyria Until this day.
9:33 在一切临到我们的事上，你却是公义的；因你所行的是信实，我们所作的是邪恶。
But You are righteous In all that has come upon us, For You have acted faithfully While we have acted wickedly;
9:34 我们的君王、首领、祭司、列祖都不遵行你的律法，不听从你的诫命和你警戒他们的话。
And our kings, our rulers, our priests, and our fathers Have not performed Your law Nor heeded Your commandments and Your testimonies, By which You
testified against them.
9:35 他们在本国，在你所赐至大的美善中，在你所摆在他们面前这广大肥美的地上，不事奉你，也不转离他们的恶行。
491
But they, in their kingdom and in Your great goodness, Which You gave them, And in the broad and fat land That You put before them, Did not serve You, nor did
they turn From their evil works.
9:36 看哪，我们今天作了奴仆；至于你所赐给我们列祖，让他们吃其上的果实和美物之地，我们竟在其上作了奴仆。
Here we are, slaves today; And as for the land that You gave to our fathers To eat of its fruit and its goodness, Here we are, slaves upon it.
9:37 这地的许多出产归了列王，就是你因我们的罪所派辖制我们的；他们任意辖制我们的身体和牲畜，我们遭了大难。
And its abundant produce is for the kings Whom You have put over us because of our sins; And they rule over our bodies and over our cattle at their pleasure,
And we are in great distress.
9:38 因这一切的事，我们立确实的约，写在册上；我们的首领、利未人和祭司，都在其上盖了印。
And because of all this we are making a firm covenant and setting it in writing, and upon the sealed document are the names of our rulers, our Levites, and our
priests.
尼希米记 Nehemiah 第 10 章
10:1 在约书上盖印的记在下面：哈迦利亚的儿子，省长尼希米，和西底家；
And those who are upon the sealed document are: Nehemiah the governor, the son of Hacaliah, and Zedekiah,
10:2 又有西莱雅、亚撒利雅、耶利米、
Seraiah, Azariah, Jeremiah,
10:3 巴施户珥、亚玛利雅、玛基雅、
Pashhur, Amariah, Malchijah,
10:4 哈突、示巴尼、玛鹿、
Hattush, Shebaniah, Malluch,
10:5 哈琳、米利末、俄巴底亚、
Harim, Meremoth, Obadiah,
10:6 但以理、近顿、巴录、
Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch,
10:7 米书兰、亚比雅、米雅民、
Meshullam, Abijah, Mijamin,
10:8 玛西亚、璧该、示玛雅，这些是祭司；
Maaziah, Bilgai, Shemaiah; these were the priests.
10:9 又有利未人，就是亚散尼的儿子耶书亚、希拿达的子孙宾内、甲篾；
And the Levites: namely, Jeshua the son of Azaniah, Binnui of the sons of Henadad, Kadmiel;
10:10 还有他们的弟兄示巴尼、荷第雅、基利他、毗莱雅、哈难、
And their brothers, Shebaniah, Hodiah, Kelita, Pelaiah, Hanan,
10:11 米迦、利合、哈沙比雅、
Mica, Rehob, Hashabiah,
10:12 撒刻、示利比、示巴尼、
Zaccur, Sherebiah, Shebaniah,
10:13 荷第雅、巴尼、比尼努；
Hodiah, Bani, Beninu.
10:14 又有民的首领，就是巴录、巴哈摩押、以拦、萨土、巴尼、
The heads of the people: Parosh, Pahath-moab, Elam, Zattu, Bani,
10:15 布尼、押甲、比拜、
Bunni, Azgad, Bebai,
10:16 亚多尼雅、比革瓦伊、亚丁、
Adonijah, Bigvai, Adin,
10:17 亚特、希西家、押朔、
Ater, Hezekiah, Azzur,
10:18 荷第雅、哈顺、比赛、
Hodiah, Hashum, Bezai,
10:19 哈拉、亚拿突、尼拜、
Hariph, Anathoth, Nebai,
10:20 抹比押、米书兰、希悉、
Magpiash, Meshullam, Hezir,
10:21 米示萨别、撒督、押杜亚、
Meshezabel, Zadok, Jaddua,
10:22 毗拉提、哈难、亚奈雅、
Pelatiah, Hanan, Anaiah,
10:23 何细亚、哈拿尼雅、哈述、
Hoshea, Hananiah, Hasshub,
10:24 哈罗黑、毗利哈、朔百、
Hallohesh, Pilha, Shobek,
10:25 利宏、哈沙拿、玛西雅、
Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah,
10:26 亚希雅、哈难、亚难、
And Ahiah, Hanan, Anan,
492
10:27 玛鹿、哈琳、巴拿。
Malluch, Harim, Baanah.
10:28 其余的民、祭司、利未人、守门的、歌唱的、殿役、和一切从各地的民分别出来归服神律法的，并他们的妻子、儿女，凡有知识能明白的，
And the rest of the people, the priests, the Levites, gatekeepers, the singers, the temple servants, and all those who had separated themselves from the peoples
of the lands unto the law of God, their wives, their sons, and their daughters, all who had knowledge and who had understanding,
10:29 都随从他们贵胄的弟兄，发咒起誓，必遵行神藉祂仆人摩西所赐的律法，谨守遵行耶和华我们主的一切诫命、典章和律例；
Join with their brothers, their nobles, and enter into a curse and an oath, to walk in the law of God, which was given through Moses the servant of God, and to
keep and do all the commandments of Jehovah our Lord, as well as His ordinances and His statutes;
10:30 并且必不将我们的女儿嫁给这地的民，也不为我们的儿子娶他们的女儿。
And swear that we will not give our daughters to the peoples of the land nor take their daughters for our sons;
10:31 这地的民若在安息日，或什么圣日，带了货物或粮食来卖给我们，我们必不买。每逢第七年，我们必不耕种，并且豁免一切债务。
And if the peoples of the land bring in wares or any grain on the Sabbath day to sell, we will not buy it from them on the Sabbath or on any holy day; and we will
forego the crops of the seventh year and the exaction of every debt.
10:32 我们又为自己立下定例，每年各人捐银一舍客勒的三分之一，为我们神殿的使用，
We also lay upon ourselves obligations to charge ourselves one-third shekel yearly for the service of the house of our God,
10:33 就是为陈设饼、常献的素祭、和常献的燔祭，安息日、月朔、节期所献的，与圣物，并为以色列人遮罪的赎罪祭，以及我们神殿里一切工作的费用。
For the rows of bread, and for the continual meal offering, and for the continual burnt offering, for the Sabbaths, for the new moons, for the appointed feasts, and
for the holy things, and for the sin offerings, to make expiation for Israel, and for all the work of the house of our God.
10:34 我们祭司、利未人、和百姓都为奉献木柴掣签，以便年年按着宗族，定期将木柴奉到我们神的殿里，照着律法上所写的，烧在耶和华我们神的坛上；
And we the priests, the Levites, and the people have cast lots for the wood offering, in order to bring it to the house of our God, according to our fathers' houses,
at appointed times year by year, to burn on the altar of Jehovah our God as it is written in the law;
10:35 以及年年将我们地上的初熟之物和各样树上一切果子中初熟的，都奉到耶和华的殿里；
And in order to bring the firstfruits of our land and the firstfruits of all the fruit of every tree year by year to the house of Jehovah,
10:36 又照律法上所写的，将我们头胎的儿子和牲口奉上；将头生的牛羊，都奉到我们神的殿，交给我们神殿里供职的祭司；
As well as the firstborn of our sons and of our cattle, as it is written in the law; and in order to bring the firstlings of our herds and of our flocks to the house of our
God, to the priests who minister in the house of our God.
10:37 并将初熟麦子所磨的面和举祭、各样树上初熟的果子、新酒与新油奉给祭司，收在我们神殿的库房里，且把我们地上所产的十分之一奉给利未人，
因利未人在我们一切有耕作的乡镇中当取十分之一。
We will also bring the first of our dough and of our heave offerings and the fruit of every tree, the new wine and the fresh oil, to the priests at the chambers of the
house of our God, and the tithe of our land to the Levites; for they, the Levites, are those who receive the tithes in all our rural towns.
10:38 利未人取十分之一的时候，亚伦的子孙作祭司的，当有一个与利未人在一起；利未人也当从十分之一中取十分之一，奉到我们神的殿，收在库房中。
And the priest, the son of Aaron, shall be with the Levites when the Levites receive the tithes; and the Levites shall bring the tithe of the tithes up to the house of
our God, to the chambers of the storehouse.
10:39 以色列人和利未人要将五谷、新酒与新油为举祭，奉到库房里，就是圣所的器皿、供职的祭司、守门的、和歌唱的所在之处；我们必不离弃我们神
的殿。
For the children of Israel and the sons of Levi shall bring the heave offering of the grain, of the new wine, and of the fresh oil to the chambers, where the vessels of
the sanctuary, the priests who minister, and the gatekeepers and the singers are; and we will not forsake the house of our God.
尼希米记 Nehemiah 第 11 章
11:1 百姓的首领住在耶路撒冷；其余的百姓掣签，每十人中使一人来住在圣城耶路撒冷，那九人住在别的城邑。
And the rulers of the people dwelt in Jerusalem, and the rest of the people cast lots in order to bring one in ten to dwell in Jerusalem, the holy city, while nine-
tenths remained in the other cities.
11:2 凡乐意献上自己去住在耶路撒冷的，百姓都为他们祝福。
And the people blessed all the men who offered themselves willingly to dwell in Jerusalem.
11:3 以色列人、祭司、利未人、殿役、和所罗门仆人的子孙，都住在犹大诸城邑，在自己城内各人的地业中。本省的首领住在耶路撒冷的记在下面：
Now these are the heads of the province who dwelt in Jerusalem (but in the cities of Judah all dwelt in their possession in their cities, that is, Israel, the priests,
and the Levites, and the temple servants, and the children of Solomon's servants):
11:4 有些犹大人和便雅悯人住在耶路撒冷。犹大人中有法勒斯的子孙，乌西雅的儿子亚他雅，乌西雅是撒迦利雅的儿子，撒迦利雅是亚玛利雅的儿子，亚
玛利雅是示法提雅的儿子，示法提雅是玛勒列的儿子；
And in Jerusalem some of the children of Judah and some of the children of Benjamin dwelt. Of the children of Judah: Athaiah the son of Uzziah, the son of
Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Mahalalel, of the children of Perez;
11:5 又有巴录的儿子玛西雅，巴录是谷何西的儿子，谷何西是哈赛雅的儿子，哈赛雅是亚大雅的儿子，亚大雅是约雅立的儿子，约雅立是撒迦利雅的儿子，
撒迦利雅是示罗尼的儿子。
And Maaseiah the son of Baruch, the son of Col-hozeh, the son of Hazaiah, the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zechariah, the son of the Shilonite.
11:6 住在耶路撒冷，法勒斯的子孙共四百六十八名，都是勇士。
All the sons of Perez who dwelt in Jerusalem were four hundred sixty-eight valiant men.
11:7 便雅悯人中有米书兰的儿子撒路，米书兰是约叶的儿子，约叶是毗大雅的儿子，毗大雅是哥赖雅的儿子，哥赖雅是玛西雅的儿子，玛西雅是以铁的儿
子，以铁是耶筛亚的儿子；
And these are the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel,
the son of Jeshaiah;
11:8 在他以后有迦拜和撒来；便雅悯人共九百二十八名。
And after him Gabbai and Sallai: nine hundred twenty-eight.
11:9 细基利的儿子约珥是他们的监督；哈西努亚的儿子犹大是那城的副监督。
And Joel the son of Zichri was their overseer; and Judah the son of Hassenuah was second over the city.
493
11:10 祭司中有约雅立的儿子耶大雅，又有雅斤，
Of the priests: Jedaiah the son of Joiarib, Jachin,
11:11 还有管理神殿的西莱雅，西莱雅是希勒家的儿子，希勒家是米书兰的儿子，米书兰是撒督的儿子，撒督是米拉约的儿子，米拉约是亚希突的儿子；
Seraiah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of God,
11:12 还有他们的弟兄在殿里供职的，共八百二十二名；又有耶罗罕的儿子亚大雅，耶罗罕是毗拉利的儿子，毗拉利是暗洗的儿子，暗洗是撒迦利亚的儿子，
撒迦利亚是巴施户珥的儿子，巴施户珥是玛基雅的儿子；
And their brothers who did the work of the house, eight hundred twenty-two; and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of
Zechariah, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah,
11:13 还有他的弟兄作宗族首领的，共二百四十二名；又有亚萨列的儿子亚玛帅，亚萨列是亚哈赛的儿子，亚哈赛是米实利末的儿子，米实利末是音麦的儿
子；
And his brothers, heads of fathers' houses, two hundred forty-two; and Amashsai the son of Azarel, the son of Ahzai, the son of Meshillemoth, the son of Immer,
11:14 还有他们的弟兄，大能的勇士，共一百二十八名；哈基多琳的儿子撒巴第业是他们的监督。
And their brothers, mighty men of valor, one hundred twenty-eight; and their overseer was Zabdiel the son of Haggedolim.
11:15 利未人中有哈述的儿子示玛雅，哈述是押利甘的儿子，押利甘是哈沙比雅的儿子，哈沙比雅是布尼的儿子；
And of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni;
11:16 又有利未人的首领沙比太和约撒拔，管理神殿外部的事。
And Shabbethai and Jozabad, of the heads of the Levites, who were over the outside work of the house of God;
11:17 祷告的时候，领头称谢的是米迦的儿子玛他尼，米迦是撒底的儿子，撒底是亚萨的儿子；又有玛他尼弟兄中的八布迦为副；还有沙母亚的儿子押大，
沙母亚是加拉的儿子，加拉是耶杜顿的儿子。
And Mattaniah the son of Mica, the son of Zabdi, the son of Asaph, who was the first to begin the thanksgiving in prayer, with Bakbukiah, the second among his
brothers; and Abda the son of Shammua, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun.
11:18 在圣城的利未人共二百八十四名。
All the Levites in the holy city were two hundred eighty-four.
11:19 守门的是亚谷、达们、和他们的弟兄，他们看守各门，共一百七十二名。
And the gatekeepers, Akkub, Talmon, and their brothers, who kept watch at the gates, were one hundred seventy- two.
11:20 其余的以色列人、祭司、利未人，都住在犹大的一切城邑，各在自己的地业中。
And the rest of Israel, the priests and the Levites, were in all the cities of Judah, every one in his own inheritance.
11:21 殿役却住在俄斐勒；西哈和基斯帕管理殿役。
But the temple servants dwelt on the Ophel. And Ziha and Gishpa were over the temple servants.
11:22 在耶路撒冷，利未人的监督，照料神殿事务的是歌唱者亚萨的子孙，巴尼的儿子乌西，巴尼是哈沙比雅的儿子，哈沙比雅是玛他尼的儿子，玛他尼
是米迦的儿子。
And the overseer of the Levites at Jerusalem was Uzzi the son of Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Mica, of the sons of Asaph, the
singers, for the work of the house of God.
11:23 王为歌唱的出令，为每日之需供给他们一定的粮。
For there was a commandment from the king concerning them and fixed provisions for the singers, as each day required.
11:24 犹大儿子谢拉的子孙，米示萨别的儿子毗他希雅是王的助手，办理一切关于百姓的事。
And Pethahiah the son of Meshezabel, of the children of Zerah the son of Judah, was at the king's hand in all matters concerning the people.
11:25 至于村庄连同属村庄的田地，有犹大人住在基列亚巴和属基列亚巴的乡村、底本和属底本的乡村、叶甲薛和属叶甲薛的村庄、
And as for the villages, with their fields, some of the children of Judah dwelt in Kiriath-arba and its villages, and in Dibon and its villages, and in Jekabzeel and its
outlying villages,
11:26 耶书亚、摩拉大、伯帕列、
And in Jeshua, and in Moladah, and Beth-pelet,
11:27 哈萨书亚、别是巴和属别是巴的乡村、
And in Hazar-shual, and in Beer-sheba and its villages,
11:28 洗革拉、米哥拿和属米哥拿的乡村、
And in Ziklag, and in Meconah and in its villages,
11:29 音临门、琐拉、耶末、
And in En-rimmon, and in Zorah, and in Jarmuth,
11:30 撒挪亚、亚杜兰和属这两处的村庄、拉吉和属拉吉的田地、亚西加和属亚西加的乡村。他们安营的地方是从别是巴直到欣嫩谷。
Zanoah, Adullam, and their villages, Lachish and its fields, Azekah and its villages. So they encamped from Beer-sheba as far as the valley of Hinnom.
11:31 便雅悯人从迦巴起，住在密抹、亚雅、伯特利和属伯特利的乡村、
And the children of Benjamin dwelt from Geba onward, at Michmash and Aija, and at Beth-el and its villages,
11:32 亚拿突、挪伯、亚难雅、
At Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah,
11:33 夏琐、拉玛、基他音、
Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim,
11:34 哈叠、洗编、尼八拉、
Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat,
11:35 罗德、阿挪、匠人之谷。
Lod, and Ono, the valley of craftsmen.
11:36 有几班在犹大地的利未人，是归于便雅悯的。
And certain courses of the Levites in Judah were joined to Benjamin.
尼希米记 Nehemiah 第 12 章
494
12:1 同着撒拉铁的儿子所罗巴伯和耶书亚上来的祭司与利未人，记在下面：祭司是西莱雅、耶利米、以斯拉、
Now these are the priests and the Levites who went up with Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra,
12:2 亚玛利雅、玛鹿、哈突、
Amariah, Malluch, Hattush,
12:3 示迦尼、利宏、米利末、
Shecaniah, Rehum, Meremoth,
12:4 易多、近顿、亚比雅、
Iddo, Ginnethoi, Abijah,
12:5 米雅民、玛底雅、璧迦、
Mijamin, Maadiah, Bilgah,
12:6 示玛雅、约雅立、耶大雅、
Shemaiah, and Joiarib, Jedaiah.
12:7 撒路、亚木、希勒家、耶大雅。这些人在耶书亚的日子，作祭司和他们弟兄的首领。
Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, Jedaiah. These were the heads of the priests and of their brothers in the days of Jeshua.
12:8 利未人是耶书亚、宾内、甲篾、示利比、犹大、玛他尼，这玛他尼和他的弟兄管理称谢的事。
And the Levites: Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah, and Mattaniah, who was over the thanksgiving, he and his brothers.
12:9 他们的弟兄八布迦和乌尼照事奉的班次，与他们相对站立。
And Bakbukiah and Unno, their brothers, were opposite them, by their service groups.
12:10 耶书亚生约雅金，约雅金生以利亚实，以利亚实生耶何耶大，
And Jeshua begot Joiakim, and Joiakim begot Eliashib, and Eliashib begot Joiada,
12:11 耶何耶大生约拿单，约拿单生押杜亚。
And Joiada begot Jonathan, and Jonathan begot Jaddua.
12:12 在约雅金的日子，祭司作宗族首领的是西莱雅族的米拉雅、耶利米族的哈拿尼雅、
And in the days of Joiakim, the priests, the heads of fathers' houses, were: of Seraiah, Meraiah; of Jeremiah, Hananiah;
12:13 以斯拉族的米书兰、亚玛利雅族的约哈难、
Of Ezra, Meshullam; of Amariah, Jehohanan;
12:14 米利古族的约拿单、示巴尼族的约瑟、
Of Malluchi, Jonathan; of Shebaniah, Joseph;
12:15 哈琳族的押拿、米拉约族的希勒恺、
Of Harim, Adna; of Meraioth, Helkai;
12:16 易多族的撒迦利亚、近顿族的米书兰、
Of Iddo, Zechariah; of Ginnethon, Meshullam;
12:17 亚比雅族的细基利、米拿民族的某一位、摩亚底族的毗勒太、
Of Abijah, Zichri; of Miniamin, of Moadiah, Piltai;
12:18 璧迦族的沙母亚、示玛雅族的约拿单、
Of Bilgah, Shammua; of Shemaiah, Jehonathan;
12:19 约雅立族的玛特乃、耶大雅族的乌西、
And of Joiarib, Mattenai; of Jedaiah, Uzzi;
12:20 撒来族的加莱、亚木族的希伯、
Of Sallai, Kallai; of Amok, Eber;
12:21 希勒家族的哈沙比雅、耶大雅族的拿坦业。
Of Hilkiah, Hashabiah; of Jedaiah, Nethanel.
12:22 至于利未人，当以利亚实、耶何耶大、约哈难、押杜亚的日子，他们宗族的首领记在册上。大利乌作波斯王的时候，作祭司的也记在册上。
As for the Levites, in the days of Eliashib, Joiada, and Johanan and Jaddua, the heads of fathers' houses were recorded, as well as the priests, in the reign of
Darius the Persian.
12:23 利未人作宗族首领的记在年代志上，直到以利亚实的儿子约哈难的日子。
The sons of Levi, the heads of fathers' houses, were written in the book of the chronicles until the days of Johanan the son of Eliashib.
12:24 利未人的首领是哈沙比雅、示利比、甲篾的儿子耶书亚，有他们的弟兄与他们相对站立，照着神人大卫的命令，一班一班的赞美称谢。
And the heads of the Levites: Hashabiah, Sherebiah, and Jeshua the son of Kadmiel, with their brothers opposite them, to praise and give thanks, according to
the commandment of David the man of God, service group next to service group.
12:25 玛他尼、八布迦、俄巴底亚、米书兰、达们、亚谷是守门的，在城门的库房那里看守。
Mattaniah and Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, Akkub were gatekeepers keeping the watch at the storehouses of the gates.
12:26 这些都是在约撒达的孙子，耶书亚的儿子约雅金的日子，并在省长尼希米和作祭司的经学家以斯拉的日子，有职任的。
These were in the days of Joiakim the son of Jeshua, the son of Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah the governor and of Ezra the priest, the scribe.
12:27 为耶路撒冷城墙行奉献之礼的时候，众民把利未人从他们所在的各处找出来，把他们带到耶路撒冷，好称谢、歌唱、敲钹、鼓瑟、弹琴，欢欢喜喜
的行奉献之礼。
And at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem they sought the Levites from all their places, to bring them to Jerusalem in order to hold the dedication with
rejoicing and thanksgiving and singing with cymbals, harps, and lyres.
12:28 歌唱者的子孙，从耶路撒冷周围的平原和尼陀法人的村庄，
So the sons of the singers gathered together from the plain around Jerusalem and from the villages of the Netophathites
12:29 并从伯吉甲，又从迦巴和押玛弗的乡间聚集，因为歌唱的人在耶路撒冷四围为自己建造了村庄。
And from Beth-gilgal and from the fields of Geba and Azmaveth; for the singers had built outlying villages for themselves around Jerusalem.
12:30 祭司和利未人就洁净自己，也洁净百姓、城门和城墙。
And the priests and the Levites purified themselves; and they purified the people and the gates and the wall.
12:31 然后我带犹大的首领上城墙，分派两大队称谢的人，列队而行。第一队在城墙上往右边向粪门行走；
495
Then I brought the leaders of Judah up onto the wall and appointed two great companies that gave thanks and went in procession. One went to the right upon
the wall toward the Dung Gate;
12:32 在他们后头走的有何沙雅与犹大首领的一半，
And after them went Hoshaiah, and half of the leaders of Judah,
12:33 又有亚撒利雅、以斯拉、米书兰、
And Azariah, Ezra, and Meshullam,
12:34 犹大、便雅悯、示玛雅、耶利米。
Judah, and Benjamin, and Shemaiah, and Jeremiah,
12:35 还有些吹号之祭司的子孙，约拿单的儿子撒迦利亚，约拿单是示玛雅的儿子，示玛雅是玛他尼的儿子，玛他尼是米该亚的儿子，米该亚是撒刻的儿
子，撒刻是亚萨的儿子；
And some of the priests' sons with trumpets: Zechariah the son of Jonathan, the son of Shemaiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Micaiah, the son of Zaccur,
the son of Asaph;
12:36 又有撒迦利亚的弟兄示玛雅、亚撒利、米拉莱、基拉莱、玛艾、拿坦业、犹大、哈拿尼，都拿着神人大卫的乐器；经学家以斯拉走在他们前面。
And his brothers, Shemaiah and Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel and Judah, Hanani, with the musical instruments of David the man of God; and Ezra the
scribe was before them.
12:37 到了泉门，他们直往前行，从大卫城的台阶随城墙的地势而上，在大卫的宫以上，走到朝东的水门。
And at the Fountain Gate, and straight in front of them, they went up by the stairs of the city of David, at the ascent of the wall, above the house of David, to the
Water Gate on the east.
12:38 第二队称谢的人与那一队相迎而行，我和民的一半跟随他们，在城墙上过了炉楼，直到宽墙；
And the second company that gave thanks went to meet them, and I after them, with half of the people, upon the wall, above the Tower of the Furnaces, to the
Broad Wall,
12:39 又过了以法莲门、古门、鱼门、哈楠业楼、哈米亚楼，直到羊门，就在护卫门站住。
And above the Gate of Ephraim, and by the Old Gate, and by the Fish Gate and the Tower of Hananel and the Tower of the Hundred, to the Sheep Gate; and they
stopped at the Gate of the Guard.
12:40 于是这两队称谢的人，连我和官长的一半，站在神的殿里。
So the two companies that gave thanks stood in the house of God, as well as I and half of the rulers with me;
12:41 还有祭司以利亚金、玛西雅、米拿民、米该雅、以利约乃、撒迦利亚、哈楠尼亚吹号；
And the priests, Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Micaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah, and Hananiah, with trumpets;
12:42 又有玛西雅、示玛雅、以利亚撒、乌西、约哈难、玛基雅、以拦和以谢奏乐。歌唱的就大声歌唱，伊斯拉希雅监督他们。
And Maaseiah and Shemaiah and Eleazar and Uzzi and Jehohanan and Malchijah and Elam and Ezer. And the singers sang loud, with Jezrahiah as the overseer.
12:43 那日，众人献大祭而欢乐，因为神使他们大大欢乐；连妇女带孩童也都欢乐。耶路撒冷的欢声，远处都可听见。
And they offered great sacrifices that day and rejoiced, for God had caused them to rejoice greatly; and the women and children also rejoiced. And the joy of
Jerusalem was heard from afar.
12:44 当日，派人管理库房，将举祭、初熟之物、和所取的十分之一，就是按各城田地，照律法所定归给祭司和利未人的分，都收在里头；犹大人因祭司
和利未人供职，就欢乐了。
And on that day men were appointed over the chambers for the stores, for the heave offerings, for the firstfruits, and for the tithes, to gather into them, according
to the cities' fields, the portions assigned by the law for the priests and the Levites, for Judah rejoiced over the priests and Levites who served.
12:45 祭司和利未人遵守神所吩咐的，并守洁净的礼。歌唱的和守门的，照着大卫和他儿子所罗门的命令，也如此行。
And they kept the charge of their God and the charge of the purification, as did the singers and the gatekeepers, according to the command of David and
Solomon his son.
12:46 古时，在大卫和亚萨的日子，有歌咏长，并有赞美称谢神的诗歌。
For in the days of David and Asaph, long ago, there were leaders of the singers, and there were songs of praise and thanksgiving to God.
12:47 在所罗巴伯和尼希米的日子，以色列众人将歌唱的、守门的，每日所当得的分供给他们；又把当得的分别为圣给利未人，利未人又把当得的分别为
圣给亚伦的子孙。
And in the days of Zerubbabel and in the days of Nehemiah all Israel gave the portions for the singers and the gatekeepers as each day required; and they
consecrated portions for the Levites, and the Levites consecrated portions for the sons of Aaron.
尼希米记 Nehemiah 第 13 章
13:1 当日，人念摩西的律法书给百姓听，遇见书上写着说，亚扪人或摩押人永不可入神的会，
On that day they read in the book of Moses in the hearing of the people; and it was found written in it that no Ammonite or Moabite should enter the assembly of
God forever,
13:2 因为他们没有拿食物和水来迎接以色列人，反而雇了巴兰咒诅他们，但我们的神使那咒诅变为祝福。
For they did not meet the children of Israel with bread and water, but hired Balaam against them to curse them; yet our God turned the curse into a blessing.
13:3 众民听见这律法，就使一切闲杂人与以色列人分开。
And when they heard the law, they separated all the mixed multitude from Israel.
13:4 这事以前，蒙派管理我们神殿中屋子的祭司以利亚实，因与多比雅结亲，
Now before this, Eliashib the priest, who had been appointed over the chambers of the house of our God, because he was related to Tobiah,
13:5 为他预备了一间大屋子，那是从前存放素祭、乳香、器皿，以及照命令供给利未人、歌唱的、守门的，五谷、新酒、和新油的十分之一，并归祭司之
举祭的地方。
Had prepared for him a large chamber where previously they had put the meal offering, the frankincense, and the vessels, as well as the tithes of the grain, the
new wine, and the fresh oil, as commanded for the Levites and the singers and the gatekeepers, and the heave offerings for the priests.
13:6 这一切发生时我不在耶路撒冷，因为巴比伦王亚达薛西三十二年，我到王那里去；过了一段日子，我向王告假。
But during all this time I was not in Jerusalem, for in the thirty-second year of Artaxerxes the king of Babylon I went to the king; then after some time I asked leave
from the king.
496
13:7 我来到耶路撒冷，就知道以利亚实为多比雅在神殿的院内预备屋子的这件恶事。
And I came to Jerusalem and perceived the evil that Eliashib had done for Tobiah by preparing him a chamber in the courts of the house of God.
13:8 我甚恼怒，就把多比雅的一切用器都从屋子里抛出去，
And it grieved me much; therefore I cast all the household utensils of Tobiah out of the chamber.
13:9 又吩咐人洁净那些屋子，然后将神殿的器皿、素祭、和乳香搬回去。
Then I gave commands, and they purified the chambers; and I returned the vessels of the house of God, the meal offering, and the frankincense there.
13:10 我见利未人所当得的分无人供给他们，甚至供职的利未人与歌唱的，俱各奔回自己的田地去了。
I also found out that the portions of the Levites had not been given to them and thus the Levites and the singers, who performed the service, had gone back, each
to his own fields.
13:11 我就斥责官长说，为何离弃神的殿呢？我便招聚利未人，使他们重站原来的岗位。
So I contended with the rulers and said, Why has the house of God been forsaken? Then I gathered them together and set them in their stations.
13:12 犹大众人就把五谷、新酒、和新油的十分之一，送入仓库。
And all Judah brought the tithe of the grain and the new wine and the fresh oil to the storehouses.
13:13 我派祭司示利米雅、经学家撒督、和利未人毗大雅，作库官管理仓库；副官是玛他尼的孙子，撒刻的儿子哈难。这些人都算是忠信的，他们的职分
是将所供给的分给他们的弟兄。
And I appointed treasurers over the storehouses, Shelemiah the priest, and Zadok the scribe, and of the Levites, Pedaiah; and next to them was Hanan the son of
Zaccur, the son of Mattaniah; for they were counted faithful, and it was their charge to distribute to their brothers.
13:14 我的神阿，求你因这事记念我，不要涂抹我为我神的殿与其中的职任所行的善。
Remember me, O my God, concerning this, and do not blot out my loyal deeds, which I have done for the house of my God and for its services.
13:15 那些日子，我在犹大见有人在安息日踹酒醡，搬运禾捆驮在驴上，又把酒、葡萄、无花果、和各样的担子，在安息日运进耶路撒冷；我就在他们卖
食物的那日警戒他们。
In those days I saw some in Judah treading wine presses on the Sabbath and bringing in heaps of grain and loading them on their donkeys, as well as wine,
grapes and figs, and every kind of load, and they were bringing them into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day; and I protested on the day that they sold food.
13:16 又有住在耶路撒冷的推罗人，把鱼和各样货物运进来，在安息日，在耶路撒冷卖给犹大人。
And Tyrians who dwelt there were also bringing in fish and every kind of merchandise, and selling it on the Sabbath to the children of Judah and in Jerusalem.
13:17 我就斥责犹大的贵胄，对他们说，你们怎么行这恶事渎犯安息日呢？
Then I contended with the nobles of Judah and said to them, What is this evil thing that you are doing, profaning the Sabbath day?
13:18 从前你们列祖岂不是这样行，以致我们的神使这一切灾祸临到我们和这城么？现在你们还渎犯安息日，使神的忿怒越发临到以色列。
Did not your fathers act this way, and did not our God bring all this trouble upon us and upon this city? But you bring more wrath upon Israel by profaning the
Sabbath.
13:19 在安息日以前，耶路撒冷城门日落有黑影的时候，我就吩咐人将门关锁，并且吩咐人不准开放，直到安息日过了；我又派我几个仆人在城门站岗，
免得有人在安息日担什么担子进来。
And when the gates of Jerusalem began to be dark before the Sabbath, I commanded that the doors be shut and commanded that they not be opened until
after the Sabbath; and I set some of my servants at the gates so that no load could enter on the Sabbath day.
13:20 于是商人和贩卖各样货物的，有一两次在耶路撒冷城外过夜。
Then the merchants and sellers of all kinds of merchandise spent the night outside Jerusalem once or twice.
13:21 我就警戒他们，说，你们为何在城墙前面过夜？若再这样，我必下手拿办你们。从此以后，他们在安息日就不来了。
But I testified against them and said to them, Why do you spend the night in front of the wall? If you do so again, I will lay hands on you. From that time on they
did not come on the Sabbath.
13:22 我吩咐利未人当洁净自己，并来守城门，使安息日分别为圣。我的神阿，求你也因这事记念我，照你的大慈爱怜惜我。
And I commanded the Levites that they should purify themselves and that they should come and keep the gates, in order to sanctify the Sabbath day. For this also
remember me, O my God, and spare me according to the greatness of Your lovingkindness.
13:23 那些日子，我也见犹大人娶了亚实突、亚扪、摩押的女子为妻。
In those days I also saw that the Jews had married women of Ashdod, Ammon, and Moab;
13:24 他们的儿女说话，一半是亚实突的话，不会说犹大的话，所说的是照着各民的方言。
And as for their children, half spoke in the language of Ashdod; and none of them could speak the language of Judah, but they spoke the language of the
respective peoples.
13:25 我就斥责他们，咒诅他们，打了他们几个人，拔下他们的头发，叫他们指着神起誓，我说，你们不可将自己的女儿嫁给他们的儿子，也不可为自己
的儿子和自己娶他们的女儿。
And I contended with them and cursed them and struck some of them and pulled out their hair; and I made them swear by God, saying, You shall not give your
daughters to their sons nor take their daughters for your sons or for yourselves.
13:26 我又说，以色列王所罗门不是在这些事上犯罪么？在多国中并没有一王像他，且蒙他神所爱，神使他作全以色列的王；然而连他也被外邦女子引诱
犯罪。
Did not Solomon the king of Israel sin in these matters? And among the many nations there was no king like him, and he was beloved of his God, and God made
him king over all Israel; yet the foreign wives caused even him to sin.
13:27 难道我们要听从你们，行这一切大恶，娶外邦女子为妻，行事不忠信得罪我们的神么？
Shall we then listen to you and do all this great evil by acting unfaithfully against our God in marrying foreign women?
13:28 大祭司以利亚实的孙子，耶何耶大的一个儿子，是和伦人参巴拉的女婿，我就从我这里把他赶出去。
And one of the sons of Joiada the son of Eliashib the high priest was the son-in-law of Sanballat the Horonite, so I chased him away from me.
13:29 我的神阿，求你记念他们的罪；因为他们玷污了祭司的职任，并玷污了有关祭司职任及利未人的约。
Remember them, O my God; for they have defiled the priesthood and the covenant of the priesthood and of the Levites.
13:30 这样，我洁净他们，使他们离绝一切外邦的事物。我派定祭司和利未人的职守，使他们各尽其职。
Thus I cleansed them from everything foreign. And I appointed duties for the priests and the Levites, each in his work,
13:31 我又派百姓按定期献木柴和初熟之物。我的神阿，求你记念我，以善待我。
And for the wood offering, at the appointed times, and for the firstfruits. Remember me, O my God, for good.