57. 腓利门书 Philemon
腓利门书 Philemon 第 1 章
1:1 基督耶稣的囚犯保罗，和弟兄提摩太，写信给所爱的并我们的同工腓利门，
Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy the brother, to Philemon our beloved and fellow worker
1:2 和姊妹亚腓亚，并与我们一同当兵的亚基布，以及在你家中的召会：
And to Apphia the sister and to Archippus our fellow soldier and to the church, which is in your house:
1:3 愿恩典与平安，从神我们的父，并主耶稣基督归与你们。
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1:4 我祷告的时候提到你，常常感谢我的神，
I thank my God always, making mention of you in my prayers,
1:5 因听见你对主耶稣，并对众圣徒的爱与信；
Hearing of your love and the faith which you have toward the Lord Jesus and to all the saints,
1:6 愿你信的交通显出功效，使人充分认识你们里面为着基督的各样善事。
That the fellowship of your faith may become effective in the full knowledge of every good thing which is in you for Christ.
1:7 因为弟兄阿，我因你的爱，大大喜乐，满受鼓励，因为众圣徒的心肠借着你得了舒畅。
For I had much joy and encouragement over your love, because the inward parts of the saints have been refreshed through you, brother.
1:8 为此，我虽然在基督里能大有胆量吩咐你合宜的事，
Therefore though I have much boldness in Christ to charge you what is fitting,
1:9 然而像我这有年纪的保罗，现在又是基督耶稣的囚犯，宁可因着爱恳求你，
Because of love I rather entreat, being such a one as Paul the aged and now also a prisoner of Christ Jesus.
1:10 就是为我在捆锁中所生的孩子欧尼西母恳求你；
I entreat you concerning my child, whom I have begotten in my bonds, Onesimus,
1:11 他从前对你没有益处，但如今对你我都有益处。
Who formerly was useless to you but now is useful both to you and to me.
1:12 我现在打发他回你那里去，他乃是我心上的人。
Him I have sent back to you -- him, that is, my very heart --
1:13 我本有意将他留在身边，使他在我为福音所受的捆锁中，替你服事我。
Whom I intended to keep with myself that on your behalf he might minister to me in the bonds of the gospel.
1:14 但未得知你的意见，我就不愿作什么，好叫你的善行不像是出于勉强，乃是出于甘心。
But without your mind I did not want to do anything, that your goodness would not be as of necessity, but voluntary.
1:15 因为他暂时离开你，或者是叫你可以永远完全得着他，
For perhaps for this reason he was separated from you for but an hour, that you might fully have him forever,
1:16 不再是奴仆，乃是高过奴仆，是亲爱的弟兄，对我固然是如此，对你，不拘在肉身上，或在主里，岂不都更是这样。
No longer as a slave, but above a slave, a beloved brother, especially to me, but how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord.
1:17 所以，你若以我为同伙，就接纳他，如同接纳我一样。
If then you hold me as a partner, receive him as myself.
1:18 他若亏负你，或欠你什么，这都归在我的账上；
And if he has wronged you in anything or owes anything, charge that to my account.
1:19 我必偿还，这是我保罗亲笔写的。我并不用对你说，连你自己也是亏欠于我。
I, Paul, have written with my own hand: I will repay; not to say to you that you owe me even your own self besides.
1:20 弟兄阿，是的，愿我在主里从你得着益处，愿你使我的心肠在基督里得舒畅。
Yes, brother, may I have profit from you in the Lord; refresh my inward parts in Christ.
1:21 我写信给你，深信你必顺从，知道你所要行的，甚至必过于我所说的。
Having confidence in your obedience, I have written to you, knowing that you will do even beyond the things that I say.
1:22 同时，你还要给我预备住所，因为我盼望借着你们的祷告，我可当作恩典赐给你们。
And at the same time also prepare me a lodging, for I hope that through your prayers I will be graciously given to you.
1:23 在基督耶稣里与我一同坐监的以巴弗问你安。
Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, greets you;
1:24 我的同工马可、亚里达古、底马、路加，也都问你安。
As do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, Luke, my fellow workers.
1:25 愿主耶稣基督的恩与你们的灵同在。
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.