50. 腓立比书 Philippians
腓立比书 Philippians 第 1 章
1:1 基督耶稣的奴仆，保罗和提摩太，写信给所有在腓立比，在基督耶稣里的圣徒，同诸位监督和诸位执事：
Paul and Timothy, slaves of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi, with the overseers and deacons:
1:2 愿恩典与平安，从神我们的父，并主耶稣基督归与你们。
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1:3 我每逢想念你们，就感谢我的神；
I thank my God upon all my remembrance of you,
1:4 每逢为你们众人祈求的时候，总是欢欢喜喜的祈求，
Always in my every petition on behalf of you all, making my petition with joy,
1:5 为了你们从头一天直到如今，在推广福音上所有的交通；
For your fellowship unto the furtherance of the gospel from the first day until now,
1:6 我深信那在你们里面开始了善工的，必完成这工，直到基督耶稣的日子。
Being confident of this very thing, that He who has begun in you a good work will complete it until the day of Christ Jesus;
1:7 我为你们众人有这样的想法，原是应当的，因为你们有我在你们心里，无论我在捆锁之中，或在辩护、证实福音的时候，你们众人都与我同享恩典。
Even as it is right for me to think this concerning you all because you have me in your heart, since both in my bonds and in the defense and confirmation of the
gospel you are all fellow partakers with me of grace.
1:8 神可为我作见证，我在基督耶稣的心肠里，怎样切切的想念你们众人。
For God is my witness how I long after you all in the inward parts of Christ Jesus.
1:9 我所祷告的，就是要你们的爱，在充足的知识并一切的辨识上，多而又多的洋溢，
And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in full knowledge and all discernment,
1:10 使你们能鉴赏那更美、不同的事，好叫你们纯诚无过，直到基督的日子，
So that you may approve by testing the things which differ and are more excellent, that you may be pure and without offense unto the day of Christ,
1:11 结满了那借着耶稣基督而有的义果，使荣耀称赞归与神。
Being filled with the fruit of righteousness, which is through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
1:12 弟兄们，我愿意你们知道，我所遭遇的事，更是为着福音的进展，
Now I want you to know, brothers, that the things concerning me have turned out rather to the advancement of the gospel,
1:13 以致我的捆锁，在御营全军，和所有其余的人中，已经显明是为基督的缘故。
So that my bonds have become manifest as being in Christ among the whole Praetorian guard and to all the rest.
1:14 并且大多数的弟兄们，因我的捆锁，在主里笃信不疑，越发放胆讲说神的话，无所惧怕。
And most of the brothers, being confident in the Lord because of my bonds, are more exceedingly bold to speak the word of God without fear.
1:15 有的人传基督，是因着嫉妒争竞，也有的是因着好意：
Some preach Christ even because of envy and strife, and some also because of good will,
1:16 这一等是出于爱，知道我是为辩护福音设立的，
These out of love, knowing that I am set for the defense of the gospel.
1:17 那一等宣传基督，却是出于私图好争，并不纯洁，想要加重我捆锁的苦楚。
But the others announce Christ out of selfish ambition, not purely, thinking to raise up affliction in my bonds.
1:18 这有何妨呢？或假意，或真诚，无论怎样，基督究竟被宣传开了，为此我就欢喜，并且还要欢喜；
What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truthfulness, Christ is announced; and in this I rejoice; yes, and I will rejoice;
1:19 因为我知道，这事借着你们的祈求，和耶稣基督之灵全备的供应，终必叫我得救。
For I know that for me this will turn out to salvation through your petition and the bountiful supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
1:20 这是照着我所专切期待并盼望的，就是没有一事会叫我羞愧，只要凡事放胆，无论是生，是死，总叫基督在我身体上，现今也照常显大，
According to my earnest expectation and hope that in nothing I will be put to shame, but with all boldness, as always, even now Christ will be magnified in my
body, whether through life or through death.
1:21 因为在我，活着就是基督，死了就有益处。
For to me, to live is Christ and to die is gain.
1:22 但我在肉身活着，若使我的工作有果子，我就不知道该挑选什么。
But if I am to live in the flesh, if this to me is fruit for my work, then I do not know what I will choose.
1:23 我正困迫于两难之间，情愿离世与基督同在，因为那是好得无比的；
But I am constrained between the two, having the desire to depart and be with Christ, for this is far better;
1:24 然而留在肉身，为你们更是需要的。
But to remain in the flesh is more necessary for your sake.
1:25 我既然这样深信，就知道仍要留下，继续与你们众人同住，使你们得到信仰上的进步和喜乐，
And being confident of this, I know that I will remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy of the faith,
1:26 好叫你们的夸耀，在基督耶稣里，因我再到你们那里去，就在我身上得以洋溢。
That your boast may abound in Christ Jesus in me through my coming again to you.
1:27 只要你们行事为人配得过基督的福音，叫我或来见你们，或不在你们那里，可以听见关于你们的事，就是你们在一个灵里站立得住，同魂与福音的信
仰一齐努力；
Only, conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ, that whether coming and seeing you or being absent, I may hear of the things concerning
you, that you stand firm in one spirit, with one soul striving together along with the faith of the gospel,
1:28 凡事不为敌人所惊吓：这是证明他们灭亡，你们得救，而且这样的证明乃是从神而来的；
And in nothing being frightened by the opposers, which is to them a proof of their destruction, but of your salvation, and that from God;
1:29 因为你们是为了基督的缘故蒙恩，不但得以信入祂，也得以为祂受苦，
Because to you it has been graciously granted on behalf of Christ not only to believe into Him but also to suffer on His behalf,
1:30 经历你们在我身上从前所看见，现在所听见同样的争战。
Having the same struggle which you saw in me and now hear to be in me.
腓立比书 Philippians 第 2 章
2:1 所以在基督里若有什么鼓励，若有什么爱的安慰，若有什么灵的交通，若有什么慈心、怜恤，
If there is therefore any encouragement in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any fellowship of spirit, if any tenderheartedness and compassions,
2:2 你们就要使我的喜乐满足，就是要思念相同的事，有相同的爱，魂里联结，思念同一件事，
Make my joy full, that you think the same thing, having the same love, joined in soul, thinking the one thing,
2:3 凡事都不私图好争，也不贪图虚荣，只要心思卑微，各人看别人比自己强；
Doing nothing by way of selfish ambition nor by way of vainglory, but in lowliness of mind considering one another more excellent than yourselves;
2:4 各人不单看重自己的长处，也看重别人的。
Not regarding each his own virtues, but each the virtues of others also.
2:5 你们里面要思念基督耶稣里面所思念的：
Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus,
2:6 祂本有神的形状，不以自己与神同等为强夺之珍，紧持不放，
Who, existing in the form of God, did not consider being equal with God a treasure to be grasped,
2:7 反而倒空自己，取了奴仆的形状，成为人的样式；
But emptied Himself, taking the form of a slave, becoming in the likeness of men;
2:8 既显为人的样子，就降卑自己，顺从至死，且死在十字架上。
And being found in fashion as a man, He humbled Himself, becoming obedient even unto death, and that the death of a cross.
2:9 所以神将祂升为至高，又赐给祂那超乎万名之上的名，
Therefore also God highly exalted Him and bestowed on Him the name which is above every name,
2:10 叫天上的、地上的和地底下的，在耶稣的名里，万膝都要跪拜，
That in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the earth,
2:11 万口都要公开承认耶稣基督为主，使荣耀归与父神。
And every tongue should openly confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.
2:12 这样，我亲爱的，你们既是常顺从的，不但我与你们同在的时候，就是我如今不在的时候，更是顺从的，就当恐惧战兢，作成你们自己的救恩，
So then, my beloved, even as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only but now much rather in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear
and trembling;
2:13 因为乃是神为着祂的美意，在你们里面运行，使你们立志并行事。
For it is God who operates in you both the willing and the working for His good pleasure.
2:14 凡所行的，都不要发怨言，起争论，
Do all things without murmurings and reasonings
2:15 使你们无可指摘、纯洁无杂，在弯曲悖谬的世代中，作神无瑕疵的儿女；你们在其中好像发光之体显在世界里，
That you may be blameless and guileless, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and perverted generation, among whom you shine as
luminaries in the world,
2:16 将生命的话表明出来，叫我在基督的日子，好夸我没有空跑，也没有徒劳。
Holding forth the word of life, so that I may have a boast in the day of Christ that I did not run in vain nor labor in vain.
2:17 然而，即使我成为奠祭，浇奠在你们信心的祭物和供奉上，也是喜乐，并且与你们众人一同喜乐。
But even if I am being poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice, and I rejoice together with you all.
2:18 你们也要同样喜乐，并且与我一同喜乐。
And in like manner you also rejoice, and you rejoice together with me.
2:19 我在主耶稣里，盼望快打发提摩太到你们那里去，叫我知道关于你们的事，也可魂中快慰。
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you shortly, that I also may be encouraged by knowing the things concerning you.
2:20 因我没有人与我同魂，真正关心你们的事，
For I have no one like-souled who will genuinely care for what concerns you;
2:21 因为众人都寻求自己的事，并不寻求基督耶稣的事。
For all seek their own things, not the things of Christ Jesus.
2:22 但你们知道提摩太蒙称许的明证，他为着福音与我一同事奉，像儿子待父亲一样。
But you know his approvedness, that as a child with a father he has served with me unto the gospel.
2:23 所以我一旦看出我的事要怎样了结，就盼望立刻打发他去；
Him therefore I hope to send immediately, as soon as I see how things go with me.
2:24 但我在主里深信，我自己也必快去。
But I trust in the Lord that I myself also will come shortly.
2:25 然而，我认为必须打发以巴弗提到你们那里去，他是我的弟兄、同工、并一同当兵的，也是你们的使徒，和供应我需用的供奉者。
But I considered it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow worker and fellow soldier, and your apostle and minister to my need,
2:26 他很想念你们众人，并且极其难过，因你们听见他病了，
Since he longed after you all and was greatly distressed because you heard that he had become sick;
2:27 他实在是病了，几乎要死；然而神怜悯他，不但怜悯他，也怜悯我，免得我忧上加忧。
For indeed he had become sick, near to death, but God had mercy on him, and not on him only but also on me that I might not have sorrow upon sorrow.
2:28 所以我越发急切打发他去，叫你们再见到他，就可以喜乐，我也可以少些忧愁。
I have sent him therefore the more eagerly, so that when you see him again, you may rejoice and I may be less sorrowful.
2:29 因此你们要在主里欢欢喜喜的接待他，并且要尊重这样的人，
Receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy, and hold such in honor,
2:30 因他为基督的工作，冒着性命的危险，几乎至死，要补足你们在供奉我的事上所有的短缺。
Because for the work of Christ he drew near unto death, risking his life, that he might fill up your lack of service toward me.
腓立比书 Philippians 第 3 章
3:1 还有，我的弟兄们，你们要在主里喜乐。把同样的话写给你们，于我并不为难，于你们却是妥当。
Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you, for me it is not irksome, but for you it is safe.
3:2 你们要提防犬类，提防作恶的，提防妄自行割的。
Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the concision.
3:3 真受割礼的，乃是我们这凭神的灵事奉，在基督耶稣里夸口，不信靠肉体的。
For we are the circumcision, the ones who serve by the Spirit of God and boast in Christ Jesus and have no confidence in the flesh,
3:4 其实我也可以信靠肉体；若别人自以为可以信靠肉体，我更可以：
Though I myself have something to be confident of in the flesh as well. If any other man thinks that he has confidence in the flesh, I more:
3:5 论割礼，我是第八天受的，我是出于以色列族便雅悯支派，是希伯来人所生的希伯来人；按律法说，是法利赛人；
Circumcised the eighth day; of the race of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew born of Hebrews; as to the law, a Pharisee;
3:6 按热心说，是逼迫召会的；按律法上的义说，是无可指摘的。
As to zeal, persecuting the church; as to the righteousness which is in the law, become blameless.
3:7 只是从前我以为对我是赢得的，这些，我因基督都已经看作亏损。
But what things were gains to me, these I have counted as loss on account of Christ.
3:8 不但如此，我也将万事看作亏损，因我以认识我主基督耶稣为至宝；我因祂已经亏损万事，看作粪土，为要赢得基督，
But moreover I also count all things to be loss on account of the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, on account of whom I have suffered the loss
of all things and count them as refuse that I may gain Christ
3:9 并且给人看出我是在祂里面，不是有自己那本于律法的义，乃是有那借着信基督而有的义，就是那基于信、本于神的义，
And be found in Him, not having my own righteousness which is out of the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is out of God and
based on faith,
3:10 使我认识基督、并祂复活的大能、以及同祂受苦的交通，模成祂的死，
To know Him and the power of His resurrection and the fellowship of His sufferings, being conformed to His death,
3:11 或者我可以达到那从死人中杰出的复活。
If perhaps I may attain to the out-resurrection from the dead.
3:12 这不是说，我已经得着了，或已经完全了，我乃是竭力追求，或者可以取得基督耶稣所以取得我的。
Not that I have already obtained or am already perfected, but I pursue, if even I may lay hold of that for which I also have been laid hold of by Christ Jesus.
3:13 弟兄们，我不是以为自己已经取得了，我只有一件事，就是忘记背后，努力面前的，
Brothers, I do not account of myself to have laid hold; but one thing I do: Forgetting the things which are behind and stretching forward to the things which are
before,
3:14 向着标竿竭力追求，要得神在基督耶稣里，召我向上去得的奖赏。
I pursue toward the goal for the prize to which God in Christ Jesus has called me upward.
3:15 所以我们凡是长成的人，都要思念这事；你们若思念任何别的事，神也必将这事启示你们。
Let us therefore, as many as are full-grown, have this mind; and if in anything you are otherwise minded, this also God will reveal to you.
3:16 然而，我们无论到了什么地步，都当按着那同一规则而行。
Nevertheless whereunto we have attained, by the same rule let us walk.
3:17 弟兄们，你们要一同效法我，你们怎样以我们为榜样，也当留意那些这样行的人。
Be imitators together of me, brothers, and observe those who thus walk even as you have us as a pattern.
3:18 因为有许多人，就是那些我屡次告诉你们，现在又流泪告诉你们的，他们的行事为人，是基督十字架的仇敌，
For many walk, of whom I have told you often and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ,
3:19 他们的结局就是灭亡，他们的神就是自己的肚腹，他们以自己的羞辱为荣耀，是思念地上之事的人。
Whose end is destruction, whose god is their stomach, and whose glory is in their shame, who set their minds on earthly things.
3:20 我们的国籍乃是在诸天之上，我们也热切等待救主，就是主耶稣基督，从那里降临；
For our commonwealth exists in the heavens, from which also we eagerly await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,
3:21 祂要按着祂那甚至能叫万有归服自己的动力，将我们这卑贱的身体改变形状，使之同形于祂荣耀的身体。
Who will transfigure the body of our humiliation to be conformed to the body of His glory, according to His operation by which He is able even to subject all things
to Himself.
腓立比书 Philippians 第 4 章
4:1 所以，我所亲爱所切慕的弟兄们，我的喜乐和冠冕─亲爱的，你们要这样在主里站立得住。
So then, my brothers, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, in the same way stand firm in the Lord, beloved.
4:2 我劝友欧底亚，也劝循都基，要在主里思念相同的事。
I exhort Euodias, and I exhort Syntyche, to think the same thing in the Lord.
4:3 是的，我也求你这真实同负一轭的，帮助她们；她们在福音上曾与我和革利免、并我其余的同工一同努力，他们的名字都在生命册上。
Yes, I ask you also, genuine yokefellow, assist them, since they contended with me in the gospel, as well as with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers,
whose names are in the book of life.
4:4 你们要在主里常常喜乐，我再说，你们要喜乐。
Rejoice in the Lord always; again I will say, rejoice.
4:5 当叫众人知道你们的谦让宜人。主是近的。
Let your forbearance be known to all men. The Lord is near.
4:6 应当一无挂虑，只要凡事借着祷告、祈求，带着感谢，将你们所要的告诉神；
In nothing be anxious, but in everything, by prayer and petition with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God;
4:7 神那超越人所能理解的平安，必在基督耶稣里，保卫你们的心怀意念。
And the peace of God, which surpasses every man's understanding, will guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.
4:8 末了的话，弟兄们，凡是真实的，凡是庄重的，凡是公义的，凡是纯洁的，凡是可爱的，凡是有美名的；若有什么德行，若有什么称赞，这些事你们
都要思念。
Finally, brothers, what things are true, what things are dignified, what things are righteous, what things are pure, what things are lovely, what things are well
spoken of, if there is any virtue and if any praise, take account of these things.
4:9 你们在我身上所学习的、所领受的、所听见的、所看见的，这些事你们都要去行，平安的神就必与你们同在。
The things which you have also learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things; and the God of peace will be with you.
4:10 我在主里大大的喜乐，因为你们对我的思念，如今终于重新发生；你们向来就思念我，只是未得机会。
But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly because now at length you have caused your thinking for me to blossom anew; for which matter you had indeed taken thought,
but lacked opportunity.
4:11 我并不是因缺乏说这话，因为我已经学会了，无论在什么景况，都可以知足。
Not that I speak according to lack, for I have learned, in whatever circumstances I am, to be content.
4:12 我知道怎样处卑贱，也知道怎样处富余；或饱足、或饥饿、或富余、或缺乏，在各事上，并在一切事上，我都学得秘诀。
I know also how to be abased, and I know how to abound; in everything and in all things I have learned the secret both to be filled and to hunger, both to
abound and to lack.
4:13 我在那加我能力者的里面，凡事都能作。
I am able to do all things in Him who empowers me.
4:14 然而，你们有分于我的患难，乃是美事。
Nevertheless you did well to have fellowship with me in my affliction.
4:15 腓立比人哪，你们也知道我初传福音，离开马其顿的时候，在授受的账上，除了你们以外，并没有一个召会与我有交通；
And you yourselves also know, Philippians, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I went out from Macedonia, no church had fellowship with me in the
account of giving and receiving except you only;
4:16 就是我在帖撒罗尼迦，你们也一次两次的，打发人供给我的需用。
For even in Thessalonica you sent both once and again to my need.
4:17 我并不寻求什么馈送，只寻求你们的果子增多，归入你们的账上。
Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit which increases to your account.
4:18 但我一切都收到了，并且有余，我已经充足，因我从以巴弗提受了你们的馈送，如同馨香之气，可收纳的祭物，是神所喜悦的。
But I have received in full all things and abound; I have been filled, receiving from Epaphroditus the things from you, a sweet-smelling savor, an acceptable
sacrifice, well-pleasing to God.
4:19 我的神必在荣耀中，照着祂的丰富，在基督耶稣里，使你们一切所需用的都充足。
And my God will fill your every need according to His riches, in glory, in Christ Jesus.
4:20 愿荣耀归与我们的神与父，直到永永远远。阿们。
Now to our God and Father be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
4:21 请问在基督耶稣里的各位圣徒安，与我同在的弟兄们都问你们安，
Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you.
4:22 众圣徒，尤其是该撒家里的人，都问你们安。
All the saints greet you, and especially those of Caesar's household.
4:23 愿主耶稣基督的恩与你们的灵同在。
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.