19. 诗篇 Psalms
诗篇 Psalms 第 1 篇
1:1 不从恶人的计谋，不站罪人的道路，不坐亵慢人的座位；
Blessed is the man Who does not walk In the counsel of the wicked, Nor stand on the path of sinners, Nor sit in the seat of mockers;
1:2 惟喜爱耶和华的律法，昼夜默想，这人便为有福。
Rather his delight is in the law of Jehovah, And in His law he meditates by day and by night.
1:3 他要像一棵树栽在溪水旁，按时令结果子，叶子也不枯干；凡他所作的，尽都顺利。
And he will be like a tree Transplanted beside streams of water, Which yields its fruit in its season, And whose foliage does not wither; And everything he does
prospers.
1:4 恶人并不是这样，乃像糠秕被风吹散。
The wicked are not so, But are like chaff, Which the wind drives away.
1:5 因此当审判的时候，恶人必站立不住；罪人在义人的会中，也是如此。
Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment; Nor the sinners, in the assembly of the righteous.
1:6 因为耶和华知道义人的道路；恶人的道路，却必灭亡。
For Jehovah knows the way of the righteous, But the way of the wicked will perish.
诗篇 Psalms 第 2 篇
2:1 外邦为什么吼闹，万民为什么谋算虚妄的事？
Why are the nations in an uproar, And why do the peoples contemplate a vain thing?
2:2 地上的君王一齐起来，臣宰一同商议，要抵挡耶和华并祂的受膏者，
The kings of the earth take their stand, And the rulers sit in counsel together, Against Jehovah and against His Anointed:
2:3 说，我们要挣开他们的捆绑，摆脱他们的绳索。
Let us break apart their bonds And cast their ropes away from us.
2:4 那坐在诸天之上的必发笑；主必嗤笑他们。
He who sits in the heavens laughs; The Lord has them in derision.
2:5 那时祂要在怒中对他们说话，在烈怒中惊吓他们，
Then He will speak to them in His anger, And in His burning wrath He will terrify them:
2:6 说，我已经立我的王在锡安我的圣山上了。
But I have installed My King Upon Zion, My holy mountain.
2:7 受膏者说，我要传述耶和华的命令；祂曾对我说，你是我的儿子，我今日生了你。
I will recount the decree of Jehovah; He said to Me: You are My Son; Today I have begotten You.
2:8 你求我，我就将列国赐你为基业，将地极赐你为产业。
Ask of Me, And I will give the nations as Your inheritance And the limits of the earth as Your possession.
2:9 你必用铁杖打破他们；你必将他们如同窑匠的瓦器摔碎。
You will break them with an iron rod; You will shatter them like a potter's vessel.
2:10 现在你们君王应当留意；你们地上的审判官该受警戒。
Now therefore, O kings, be prudent; Take the admonition, O judges of the earth.
2:11 当存畏惧事奉耶和华，又当存战兢而欢乐。
Serve Jehovah with fear, And rejoice with trembling.
2:12 当以嘴亲子，恐怕祂发怒，你们便在路中灭亡，因为祂的怒气快要发作。凡投奔于祂的，都是有福的。
Kiss the Son Lest He be angry and you perish from the way; For His anger may suddenly be kindled. Blessed are all those who take refuge in Him.
诗篇 Psalms 第 3 篇
3:1 耶和华阿，我的敌人何其多！有许多人起来攻击我！
Jehovah, how many are my adversaries! Many are those who rise up against me!
3:2 有许多人论到我说，他得不着神的拯救！ 细拉
Many are those who say of my soul, There is no salvation for him in God!
3:3 但你耶和华是我四围的盾牌，是我的荣耀，又是叫我抬起头来的。
But You, O Jehovah, are a shield around me, My glory and the One who lifts up my head.
3:4 我用我的声音呼求耶和华，祂就从祂的圣山上应允我。 细拉
With my voice I call out to Jehovah, And He answers me from His holy mountain.
3:5 我躺下睡觉，我醒过来，因为有耶和华扶持我。
I lay down and slept; I awoke, for Jehovah sustains me.
3:6 虽有成万的民周围攻击我，我也不怕。
I will not fear the myriads of the people Who have set themselves against me all around.
3:7 耶和华阿，求你起来；我的神阿，求你救我！愿你击打我一切仇敌的腮骨，敲碎恶人的牙齿。
Arise, O Jehovah; Save me, O my God! Oh that you would strike all my enemies on the cheek; And break the teeth of the wicked.
3:8 拯救属于耶和华；愿你赐福给你的民。 细拉
Salvation is of Jehovah: Your blessing be upon Your people.
542
诗篇 Psalms 第 4 篇
4:1 显我为义的神阿，我呼求的时候，求你应允我；我在窘困中，求你使我宽广；求你恩待我，听我的祷告。
When I call out, answer me, O God of my righteousness; Make room for me when I am in straits; Be gracious to me and hear my prayer.
4:2 人哪，你们将我的荣耀变为羞辱，要到几时呢？你们喜爱虚妄，寻求虚谎，要到几时呢？ 细拉
O sons of men, how long will my glory be made a reproach? How long will you love vanity, will you seek a lie?
4:3 你们要知道，耶和华已经分别虔诚人归祂自己；我呼求耶和华，祂必听我。
But know that Jehovah sets apart the faithful man for Himself. Jehovah hears when I call out to Him.
4:4 你们生气，却不要犯罪；在床上的时候，要心里思想，并要肃静。 细拉
Be angry, yet do not sin; Consider in your heart upon your bed, And be silent.
4:5 当献上公义的祭，又当信靠耶和华。
Offer sacrifices of righteousness, And trust in Jehovah.
4:6 有许多人说，谁能指示我们什么好处？耶和华阿，求你仰起脸来，光照我们。
Many are those who say, Who will show us any good? Lift up upon us the light of Your countenance, O Jehovah.
4:7 你使我心里快乐，胜过人丰收五谷新酒时的快乐。
You have put joy in my heart, More than when the grain and new wine of others abound.
4:8 我必安然躺下睡觉，因为独有你耶和华使我安然居住。
In peace I will both lie down and sleep, For You alone, O Jehovah, cause me to dwell in safety.
诗篇 Psalms 第 5 篇
5:1 耶和华阿，求你侧耳听我的言语，顾念我的呻吟。
To my words give ear, O Jehovah; Consider my moaning.
5:2 我的王我的神阿，求你垂听我呼求的声音；因为我向你祷告。
Give heed to the sound of my cry, My King and my God; For to You do I pray.
5:3 耶和华阿，早晨你必听我的声音；早晨我必向你陈明我的心意，并要守望。
O Jehovah, in the morning You will hear my voice; In the morning I will set forth my words in order to You, And I will watch.
5:4 因为你不是喜悦邪恶的神；恶人不能与你同居。
For You are not a God who delights in wickedness; Evil will not sojourn with You.
5:5 夸口的人不能站在你眼前；凡作孽的，都是你所恨恶的。
Those who boast will not stand Before Your eyes; You hate all workers of iniquity.
5:6 说谎言的，你必灭绝；好流人血弄诡诈的人，为耶和华所憎恶。
You will destroy those who speak lies. Jehovah abhors a man of bloodshed and deceit.
5:7 至于我，我必凭你丰盛的慈爱进入你的居所；我必存敬畏你的心向你的圣殿下拜。
But as for me, in the abundance of Your lovingkindness I will come into Your house; I will bow down toward Your holy temple In fear of You.
5:8 耶和华阿，求你因那埋伏等候我的人，凭你的公义引领我；使你的道路在我面前平直。
O Jehovah, lead me in Your righteousness On account of those who lie in wait for me; Make Your way straight before me.
5:9 因为他们口中没有诚实；他们内里尽是败坏；他们的喉咙是敞开的坟墓；他们用舌头谄媚人。
For there is no truth in their mouth; Their inward part is corruption itself; Their throat is an open grave; They flatter with their tongue.
5:10 神阿，求你定他们有罪；愿他们因自己的计谋跌倒；愿你因他们许多的过犯，把他们赶逐出去，因为他们背叛了你。
Hold them guilty, O God; Let them fall by their own counsels; Because of the multitude of their transgressions thrust them out, For they have rebelled against You.
5:11 凡投奔于你的，愿他们喜乐，永远欢呼；愿你覆庇他们；又愿那爱你名的人，都因你欢欣。
But let all who take refuge in You rejoice; Let them shout for joy forever; And may You spread a cover over them; And those who love Your name Will exult in You.
5:12 因为耶和华阿，你必赐福与义人；你必用恩惠如同盾牌环绕他。
For You will bless the righteous man, O Jehovah; You will surround him with favor as with a shield.
诗篇 Psalms 第 6 篇
6:1 耶和华阿，求你不要在怒中责备我，也不要在烈怒中惩治我。
O Jehovah, do not rebuke me in Your anger, Nor chasten me in Your burning wrath.
6:2 耶和华阿，求你恩待我，因为我衰弱；耶和华阿，求你医治我，因为我的骨头发颤，
Be gracious to me, O Jehovah, for I am languishing; Heal me, O Jehovah, for my bones are shaken,
6:3 我的魂也大大的惊惶。耶和华阿，你要到几时才救我呢？
And my soul is greatly shaken. But as for You, O Jehovah, how long?
6:4 耶和华阿，求你转回，搭救我的魂；因你慈爱的缘故，求你拯救我。
Return, O Jehovah; deliver my soul; Save me for Your lovingkindness' sake.
6:5 因为在死地无人记念你；在阴间有谁称谢你？
For in death there is no remembrance of You; In Sheol who can give thanks to You?
6:6 我因唉哼而困乏；我每夜流泪，把床榻漂起，把褥子湿透。
I am weary with my groaning; Every night I cause my bed to swim; With my tears I dissolve my couch.
6:7 我因忧愁眼睛干瘪；又因我一切敌人的缘故，眼睛昏花。
My eye is wasted because of grief; It has aged because of all those who vex me.
6:8 你们一切作孽的人，离开我罢，因为耶和华听了我哭泣的声音。
Depart from me, all you workers of iniquity, For Jehovah has heard the sound of my weeping.
543
6:9 耶和华听了我的恳求；耶和华收纳我的祷告。
Jehovah has heard my supplication; Jehovah receives my prayer.
6:10 我的一切仇敌都必羞愧，大大惊惶；他们必要退后，忽然羞愧。
All my enemies will be ashamed and greatly dismayed; They will turn back; they will be put to shame suddenly.
诗篇 Psalms 第 7 篇
7:1 耶和华我的神阿，我投奔于你；求你救我脱离一切追赶我的人，将我救拔出来；
O Jehovah my God, in You do I take refuge. Save me from all who pursue me, and deliver me;
7:2 恐怕他们像狮子撕裂我，甚至撕碎，无人搭救。
Lest he tear my soul like a lion, Tearing it apart without anyone to deliver it.
7:3 耶和华我的神阿，我若行了这事，我的手中若有不义，
O Jehovah my God, if I have done this, If there is unrighteousness in my hands,
7:4 我若以恶报那与我和好的人，(那无故与我为敌的人，我倒拯救了他，)
If I have recompensed with evil him who was at peace with me (Rather, I have delivered him who vexed me without cause);
7:5 就任凭仇敌追赶我，并且追上；将我的性命践踏在地上，使我的荣耀归于尘土。 细拉
Let the enemy pursue my soul and overtake me, And let him trample my life to the ground And lay my glory down in the dust.
7:6 耶和华阿，求你在怒中起来，挺身抵挡我敌人的暴怒；求你为我醒起；你已经下令施行审判。
Arise, O Jehovah, in Your anger; Lift Yourself up against the overflowing wrath of those who vex me, And awake for me: You have commanded judgment.
7:7 愿众民的会环绕你；愿你从其上归回高处。
And let the assembly of the peoples surround You, And over it return on high.
7:8 耶和华要向众民施行审判；耶和华阿，求你按我的公义，并按我里面的纯全，判断我。
Jehovah will execute judgment on the peoples; Judge me, O Jehovah, according to my righteousness And according to my integrity that is with me.
7:9 愿恶人的恶断绝；愿你坚立义人；因为公义的神察验人的心肠肺腑。
Oh, let the evil of the wicked come to an end, But establish the righteous man. For the righteous God Tries the hearts and the inward parts.
7:10 我的盾牌是在于神，祂拯救心里正直的人。
My shield is with God, Who saves the upright in heart.
7:11 神是公义的审判者，又是天天向恶人发怒的神。
God is a righteous Judge And a God who has indignation every day.
7:12 若有人不回头，祂必磨快祂的刀，拉紧祂的弓，预备妥当。
If one does not turn, He will whet His sword. He bends His bow and makes it ready.
7:13 祂也预备了杀人的器械攻击那人；祂使所射的箭燃烧。
And He prepares instruments of death against him; He has made His arrows fiery shafts.
7:14 看哪，恶人受生产罪孽之苦；所怀的是毒害，所生的是虚假。
Behold, the evil man travails with iniquity; He conceives mischief and brings forth falsehood.
7:15 他掘了坑，又挖深了，竟掉在自己所挖的陷阱里。
He digs a pit and hollows it out, Then he falls into the hole that he has made.
7:16 他的毒害必回到自己头上；他的强暴必落在自己头顶上。
His mischief returns upon his own head, And upon the crown of his own head his violence comes down.
7:17 我要照着耶和华的公义称谢祂，歌颂耶和华至高者的名。
I will give thanks to Jehovah according to His righteousness, And I will sing psalms to the name of Jehovah the Most High.
诗篇 Psalms 第 8 篇
8:1 耶和华我们的主阿，你的名在全地何其尊大；你将你的荣美彰显于天！
O Jehovah our Lord, How excellent is Your name In all the earth, You who have set Your glory over the heavens!
8:2 你因敌人的缘故，从婴孩和吃奶的口中，建立了能力，使仇敌和报仇的，闭口无言。
Out of the mouths of babes and sucklings You have established strength Because of Your adversaries, To stop the enemy and the avenger.
8:3 我观看你指头所造的天，并你所陈设的月亮星宿，
When I see Your heavens, the works of Your fingers, The moon and the stars, which You have ordained,
8:4 便说，人算什么，你竟顾念他？世人算什么，你竟眷顾他？
What is mortal man, that You remember him, And the son of man, that You visit him?
8:5 你使他比天使微小一点，并赐他荣耀尊贵为冠冕。
You have made him a little lower than angels And have crowned him with glory and honor.
8:6 你派他管理你手所造的，使万物，
For You have caused him to rule over the works of Your hands; You have put all things under his feet:
8:7 就是一切的牛羊并田野的兽，
All sheep and oxen, As well as the beasts of the field,
8:8 空中的鸟，海里的鱼，凡经行海道的，都服在他的脚下。
The birds of heaven and the fish of the sea, Whatever passes through the paths of the seas.
8:9 耶和华我们的主阿，你的名在全地何其尊大！
O Jehovah our Lord, How excellent is Your name In all the earth!
544
诗篇 Psalms 第 9 篇
9:1 耶和华阿，我要全心称谢你；我要述说你一切奇妙的作为。
I will give thanks to You, O Jehovah, with all my heart; I will tell out all Your wonders.
9:2 我要因你喜乐欢欣；至高者阿，我要歌颂你的名。
I will rejoice and exult in You; I will sing psalms to Your name, O Most High.
9:3 我的仇敌转身退去的时候，他们一见你的面，就跌倒灭亡。
When my enemies turn back, They stumble and perish at Your presence.
9:4 因你已经为我伸冤，为我辨屈；你坐在宝座上，按公义审判。
For You have upheld my right and my cause; You sit on the throne, judging righteously.
9:5 你曾斥责外邦，灭绝恶人；你涂抹了他们的名，直到永永远远。
You have rebuked the nations; You have destroyed the wicked; You have blotted out their name forever and ever.
9:6 仇敌到了尽头；他们被毁坏，直到永远；你拆毁了他们的城邑；连他们的名号，都归于无有。
The enemies are finished; they are in perpetual ruins; And You have uprooted their cities; the very memory of them has perished.
9:7 惟耶和华坐着为王，直到永远；祂已经为审判立定祂的宝座。
But Jehovah sits enthroned forever; He has established His throne for judgment.
9:8 祂要按公义审判世界，按公正判断众民。
And it is He who judges the world with righteousness; He executes judgment on the peoples with equity.
9:9 耶和华要给受欺压的人作高台，在急难的时候作高台。
And Jehovah is a high retreat for the oppressed, A high retreat in times of distress.
9:10 耶和华阿，认识你名的人要信靠你，因你没有离弃寻求你的人。
And those who know Your name put their trust in You, For You have not forsaken those who seek You, O Jehovah.
9:11 应当歌颂住在锡安的耶和华，将祂所行的传扬在众民中；
Sing psalms to Jehovah, the Inhabitant of Zion; Declare His deeds among the peoples,
9:12 因为祂追讨流人血的罪，记念被杀的人，不忘记困苦人的哀求。
For He who avenges bloodshed remembers those who were slain; He does not forget the cry of the afflicted.
9:13 耶和华阿，你是从死门把我提拔起来的；求你恩待我，看那恨我的人所加给我的苦难，
Be gracious to me, O Jehovah; look on my affliction from those who hate me, You who raise me from the gates of death,
9:14 好叫我述说你一切可赞美的事，并在锡安城的门，因你的救恩欢乐。
That I may tell out all Your praises And, in the gates of the daughter of Zion, exult in Your salvation.
9:15 外邦人陷在自己所掘的坑中；他们的脚在自己暗设的网罗里缠住了。
The nations have sunk in the pit that they have made; In the net that they hid, their own foot is caught.
9:16 耶和华已将自己显明了，祂已施行公理；恶人被自己手所作的缠住了。希该昂细拉
Jehovah has made Himself known; He has executed justice; The wicked have been snared in the work of their hands.
9:17 恶人，就是忘记神的外邦人，都必归到阴间。
The wicked will be turned back to Sheol, All the nations who forget God.
9:18 穷乏人必不永久被忘，困苦人的指望，必不永远落空。
For not always will the needy be forgotten, Nor will the hope of the afflicted perish forever.
9:19 耶和华阿，求你起来！不要让人得胜；愿外邦人在你面前受审判。
Arise, O Jehovah! Let not mortal man prevail; Let the nations be judged in Your sight.
9:20 耶和华阿，求你使他们恐惧；愿外邦人知道自己不过是人。 细拉
Put them in fear, O Jehovah; Let the nations know that they are mortal men.
诗篇 Psalms 第 10 篇
10:1 耶和华阿，你为什么站在远处？在急难的时候，为什么隐藏？
Why, O Jehovah, do You stand far off? Why do You hide Yourself in times of distress?
10:2 恶人在骄横中，把穷苦人追得火急；愿他们陷入自己所设的计谋里！
Arrogantly the wicked hotly pursue the poor-May they be caught in the plots that they devise!
10:3 因为恶人夸耀自己魂里的欲望；贪婪的人咒诅耶和华，并且轻慢祂。
For the wicked man boasts of the desire of his soul, And the rapacious man curses, even despises, Jehovah.
10:4 恶人面带高傲，说，耶和华必不追究；他一切所想的，都以为没有神。
The wicked man, according to the haughtiness of his countenance, Says, He will not require it; All his thoughts are this: There is no God!
10:5 他的道路总是亨通；你的审判高高在上，超过他的眼界；至于他一切的敌人，他都向他们喷气。
His ways succeed at all times; Your judgments are on high, out of his sight; As for all his adversaries, he snorts at them.
10:6 他心里说，我必不动摇，世世代代不遭灾难。
He has said in his heart, I will not be shaken; I will be in no trouble forever.
10:7 他满口是咒诅、诡诈、欺压；他的舌底是毒害、罪孽。
His mouth is full of curses and of deceit and oppression; Under his tongue are mischief and iniquity.
10:8 他在村庄埋伏等候；他在隐密处杀害无辜的人；他的眼睛窥探不幸的人。
He sits in the ambushes of the open villages; In hidden places he murders the innocent; His eyes secretly watch for the unfortunate.
10:9 他埋伏在隐密处，如狮子蹲在洞中；他埋伏，要掠取穷苦人；他拉网，就把穷苦人掠去。
He lurks in secret like a lion in its covert; He lurks ready to seize the poor; He seizes the poor, drawing them up in his net.
10:10 他屈身蹲伏，不幸的人就倒在他强劲的爪下。
He stoops, he crouches, And the unfortunate fall by his mighty claws.
545
10:11 他心里说，神已经忘记了；祂掩面，绝不看这事。
He has said in his heart, God has forgotten; He has hidden His face; He will never see this.
10:12 耶和华阿，求你起来；神阿，求你举手；不要忘记穷苦人。
Arise, O Jehovah; O God, lift up Your hand. Do not forget the poor.
10:13 恶人为何轻慢神，心里说，你必不追究？
Why does the wicked man despise God And say in his heart, You will not require it?
10:14 其实你已经看见；因为毒害和苦恼，你都察看，为要亲手施行报应。不幸的人把自己交托你；你向来是帮助孤儿的。
You do see! For You observe mischief and vexation, To requite it with Your own hand. To You the unfortunate one commits his cause; You have been the help of
the orphan.
10:15 愿你打断恶人和坏人的膀臂；愿你追究他的恶，直到无可察觉。
Break the arm of the wicked man and the evil doer; Seek out his wickedness until You find no more.
10:16 耶和华永永远远为王；外邦人从祂的地已经灭绝了。
Jehovah is King forever and ever; The nations have perished from His land.
10:17 耶和华阿，卑微人的愿望，你已经听见；你必坚固他们的心；你必亲耳垂听他们的祈求，
You have heard the desire of the lowly, O Jehovah; You will establish their heart; You will cause Your ears to listen,
10:18 为要给孤儿和受欺压的人伸冤，使地上的人不再威吓他们。
In order to execute justice for the orphan and the oppressed one, That the mortal man of the earth may terrorize no longer.
诗篇 Psalms 第 11 篇
11:1 我投奔于耶和华；你们怎么对我说，你当像鸟逃往山上去？
In Jehovah have I taken refuge. How can you say to my soul, Flee to the mountains like a bird?
11:2 恶人弯弓，把箭搭在弦上，要在黑暗中射那心里正直的人。
For behold, the wicked bend the bow; They ready their arrow on the string To shoot in the dark at the upright in heart.
11:3 根基若毁坏，义人还能作什么呢？
When the foundations are destroyed, What will the righteous man do?
11:4 耶和华在祂的圣殿里；耶和华的宝座在天上。祂的眼目察看；祂的目光察验世人。
Jehovah is in His holy temple; Jehovah-His throne is in heaven. His eyes behold; His eyelids try the sons of men.
11:5 耶和华试炼义人；惟有恶人和喜爱强暴的人，祂心里恨恶。
Jehovah tries the righteous man; But the wicked man and him who loves violence, His soul hates.
11:6 祂要向恶人密布网罗；有烈火、硫磺、热风，作他们杯中的分。
He will rain down snares upon the wicked; Fire and brimstone and a scorching wind will be the portion of their cup.
11:7 因为耶和华是公义的；祂爱公义的行为。正直人必得见祂的面。
For Jehovah is righteous; He loves righteous deeds. The upright man will behold His face.
诗篇 Psalms 第 12 篇
12:1 耶和华阿，求你拯救，因虔诚人断绝了，忠信人已经从世人中间消失了。
Save, O Jehovah; for the faithful man is no more, For the trustworthy have vanished from among the sons of men.
12:2 人人向邻舍说虚谎的话；他们说话，是嘴唇油滑，心口不一。
Each man speaks falsehood with his neighbor; With flattering lips and a double heart they speak.
12:3 凡油滑的嘴唇，说夸大话的舌头，愿耶和华剪除；
May Jehovah cut off all the flattering lips, The tongue speaking great things,
12:4 他们曾说，我们必能以舌头得胜；我们的嘴唇是我们自己的；谁能作我们的主呢？
Those who said, With our tongue we will prevail; Our lips are our own: Who is our lord?
12:5 耶和华说，因为困苦人所受的蹂躏，因为穷乏人的叹息，我现在要起来，把他安置在他所切慕的稳妥之地。
Because of the devastation of the poor, because of the sighing of the needy, I will now arise, says Jehovah; I will set him in the safety that he longs for.
12:6 耶和华的言语，是纯净的言语，如同地上炉中炼过的银子，精炼过七次。
The words of Jehovah are pure words, Silver refined in a furnace on the earth, Purified seven times.
12:7 耶和华阿，你必保守他们；你必护卫他们永远脱离这世代的人。
You, O Jehovah, will keep them; You will guard them from this generation forever.
12:8 卑贱的事在世人中被高举，恶人就到处游行。
The wicked go about all around, While vileness is exalted among the sons of men.
诗篇 Psalms 第 13 篇
13:1 耶和华阿，你忘记我要到几时呢？要到永远么？你掩面不顾我要到几时呢？
How long, O Jehovah? Will You forget me continually? How long will You hide Your face from me?
13:2 我魂里筹算，心里终日愁苦，要到几时呢？我的仇敌高居我上，要到几时呢？
How long will I bear concern in my soul And sorrow in my heart day after day? How long will my enemy be exalted over me?
13:3 耶和华我的神阿，求你看顾我，应允我；求你使我眼目光明，免得我沉睡至死；
Consider and answer me, O Jehovah my God; Enlighten my eyes lest I sleep the sleep of death,
13:4 免得我的仇敌说，我胜过了他；免得我的敌人在我摇动的时候欢乐。
Lest my enemy say, I have prevailed against him, And my adversaries exult when I am shaken.
546
13:5 但我信靠你的慈爱；我的心要因你的救恩欢乐；
But I trust in Your lovingkindness; My heart will exult in Your salvation;
13:6 我要向耶和华歌唱，因祂用厚恩待我。
I will sing to Jehovah, For He has dealt bountifully with me.
诗篇 Psalms 第 14 篇
14:1 愚顽人心里说，没有神。他们都是败坏，行了可憎恶的事；没有一个人行善。
The fool has said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt; they commit abominable deeds; There is none who does good.
14:2 耶和华从天上垂看世人，要看有明白的没有，有寻求神的没有。
Jehovah looked down from heaven Upon the sons of men To see if there was anyone who had insight, Who seeks after God.
14:3 他们都是偏离正路，一同变为败坏；没有行善的，连一个也没有。
They have all turned aside; They are together perverse. There is none who does good; There is not even one.
14:4 作孽的都没有知识么？他们吞吃我的百姓，如同吃饭一样，并不呼求耶和华。
Have they no knowledge, all the workers of iniquity, Who eat up my people as they would eat up bread And do not call upon Jehovah?
14:5 他们在那里大大的害怕，因为神是在义人的族类中。
There they were in great fear, For God is among the generation of the righteous.
14:6 你们叫困苦人的谋算变为羞辱，然而耶和华是他们的避难所。
You put the counsel of the afflicted to shame, But Jehovah is their refuge.
14:7 但愿以色列的救恩从锡安而出！耶和华使祂被掳的子民归回，那时雅各要欢腾，以色列要喜乐。
O that the salvation of Israel might come forth from Zion! When Jehovah turns the captivity of His people, Jacob will exult, Israel will rejoice.
诗篇 Psalms 第 15 篇
15:1 耶和华阿，谁能寄居你的帐幕？谁能住在你的圣山？
O Jehovah, who may sojourn in Your tent? Who may dwell on Your holy mountain?
15:2 就是行为纯全，作事公义，从心里说实话的人。
He who walks in integrity And does righteousness And speaks truth from his heart.
15:3 他不以舌头谗谤人，不恶待朋友，也不随伙辱骂邻里。
He does not slander with his tongue; He does not do evil to his friend, Nor does he take up a reproach against his neighbor.
15:4 他眼中藐视可弃绝的人，却尊重敬畏耶和华的人。他发了誓，虽然自己吃亏，也不更改。
In his eyes a reprobate is despised, But he honors those who fear Jehovah. Should he swear to his harm, He does not change.
15:5 他不放债取利，也不受贿赂以害无辜。行这些事的人，必永不动摇。
He does not lend his money on interest, Nor accept a bribe against the innocent. He who does these things will not be shaken forever.
诗篇 Psalms 第 16 篇
16:1 神阿，求你保守我，因为我投奔于你。
Preserve me, O God, for I take refuge in You.
16:2 我对耶和华说，你是我的主；我的好处不在你以外。
I say to Jehovah, You are my Lord; No good have I beyond You;
16:3 论到地上的圣民，他们是尊高的人，是我所最喜悦的。
As for the saints who are on the earth, they are the excellent; All my delight is in them.
16:4 以别神代替耶和华的，他们的愁苦必加增；他们所浇奠的血我不献上，我嘴唇也不题别神的名号。
The sorrows of them who bartered for some other god will be multiplied; Their drink offerings of blood I will not offer, Nor will I take up their names upon my lips.
16:5 耶和华是我的产业，是我杯中的分；我所得的分你为我持守。
Jehovah is the portion of my inheritance and of my cup; You maintain my lot.
16:6 用绳量给我的地界，坐落在佳美之处；我的产业实在美好。
The measuring lines have fallen on pleasant places for me; Indeed the inheritance is beautiful to me.
16:7 我必颂赞那指教我的耶和华；我的心肠在夜间也警戒我。
I will bless Jehovah, who counsels me; Indeed in the nights my inward parts instruct me.
16:8 我将耶和华常摆在我面前；因祂在我右边，我便不至摇动。
I have set Jehovah before me continually; Because He is at my right hand, I shall not be shaken.
16:9 因此我的心快乐，我的灵欢腾；我的肉身也安然居住。
Therefore my heart rejoices and my glory exults; Even my flesh dwells securely.
16:10 因为你必不将我的魂撇在阴间，也不叫你的圣者见朽坏。
For You will not abandon my soul to Sheol, Nor let Your Holy One see the pit.
16:11 你必将生命的道路指示我；在你面前有满足的喜乐；在你右手中有永远的福乐。
You will make known to me the path of life; In Your presence is fullness of joy; At Your right hand there are pleasures forever.
诗篇 Psalms 第 17 篇
17:1 耶和华阿，求你听闻公义，垂听我的呼吁；求你侧耳听我这不出于诡诈嘴唇的祷告。
547
Hear, O Jehovah, what is righteous; Give heed to my cry; Give ear to my prayer, Which is not made with lips of deceit.
17:2 愿你对我的判语，从你面前发出；愿你的眼睛察看公正。
May a judgment for me come forth from Your presence; May Your eyes regard equity.
17:3 你已经试验我的心；你在夜间鉴察我；你熬炼我，却找不着什么。我立志使我口中没有过犯。
You have examined my heart; You have visited me by night; You have tried me: You have found nothing. I have resolved that my mouth will not transgress.
17:4 论到人的行为，我借着你嘴唇的言语，保守自己不行强暴人的道路。
Regarding the works of man, by the word of Your lips, I have kept myself from the paths of the violent man.
17:5 我的步伐稳踏在你的路径上，我的脚步未曾滑跌。
My steps have held fast to Your tracks; My footsteps have not slipped.
17:6 神阿，我呼求你，因为你必应允我；求你向我侧耳，听我的言语。
I call on You, for You will answer me, O God; Incline Your ear to me; hear my speaking.
17:7 求你奇妙的显示你的慈爱；你用右手拯救投靠你的，脱离起来攻击他们的人。
Wondrously display Your lovingkindness, You who save by Your right hand Those who take refuge in You from them who rise up against them.
17:8 求你保护我，如同保护你眼中的瞳人；将我隐藏在你翅膀的荫下，
Guard me like the pupil of Your eye; In the shadow of Your wings hide me
17:9 使我脱离欺压我的恶人，就是围困我，要害我命的仇敌。
From the presence of the wicked who oppress me, From my deadly enemies, who close in upon me.
17:10 他们关闭了他们被脂油包裹的心，用口说狂妄的话。
They have shut up their fat hearts; With their mouths they speak arrogantly.
17:11 现在他们围困了我们的脚步；他们瞪着眼，要把我们推倒在地。
Now they have surrounded us in our steps; They have fixed their eyes on casting us down to the ground.
17:12 他像狮子急要抓食，又像少壮狮子蹲伏在隐密处。
He is like a lion that is eager to tear, And like a young lion lurking in hidden places.
17:13 耶和华阿，求你起来，迎面抵挡他，将他打倒。求你用你的刀救护我的性命脱离恶人；
Arise, O Jehovah, confront him; bring him down. With Your sword rescue my soul from the wicked man,
17:14 耶和华阿，求你用手救护我脱离世人，脱离那些只在今生有业分的世人；你把你的财宝充满他们的肚腹；他们因有儿女就心满意足，将他们的富余
留给他们的婴孩。
From mortal men with Your hand, O Jehovah, From mortal men of the world, whose portion is in this life, And whose belly You fill with Your treasure; They are
satisfied with children, And they leave their abundance for their little ones.
17:15 至于我，我必在义中见你的面；我醒了的时候，必因见你的形像而心满意足。
As for me, in righteousness I will behold Your face; When I awake, I will be satisfied with Your likeness.
诗篇 Psalms 第 18 篇
18:1 耶和华我的力量阿，我爱你。
I love You, O Jehovah, my strength.
18:2 耶和华是我的岩石，我的山寨，我的解救者；是我的神，我的磐石，我所投靠的；是我的盾牌，拯救我的角，我的高台。
Jehovah is my crag and my fortress and my Deliverer; My God, my rock, in whom I take refuge; My shield and the horn of my salvation, my high retreat.
18:3 我呼求当受赞美的耶和华，就蒙拯救脱离仇敌。
I called upon Jehovah, who is worthy of praise, And from my enemies I was saved.
18:4 曾有死亡的绳索围绕我；毁灭的急流使我惊惧。
The cords of death encompassed me; And the torrents of destruction assailed me.
18:5 阴间的绳索缠绕我；死亡的网罗临到我。
The cords of Sheol surrounded me; The snares of death confronted me.
18:6 我在急难中呼求耶和华，向我的神呼救。祂从殿中听了我的声音，我在祂面前的呼救入了祂的耳中。
In my distress I called upon Jehovah And cried out to my God. He heard my voice from His temple, And my cry before Him came to His ears.
18:7 那时因祂发怒，地就摇撼战抖，山的根基也震动摇撼。
Then the earth shook and quaked, And the foundations of the mountains trembled and shook about, For He was furious.
18:8 从祂鼻孔冒烟上腾，从祂口中发火焚烧；连炭也烧着了。
Smoke went up from His nostrils, And fire from His mouth devoured; Coals blazed forth from Him.
18:9 祂使天下垂，亲自降临；有幽暗在祂脚下。
He bowed the heavens and descended, And deep darkness was under His feet.
18:10 祂乘坐基路伯飞行；祂驾御风的翅膀快飞。
He rode upon a cherub and did fly; He darted upon the wings of the wind.
18:11 祂以黑暗为藏身之处，以乌黑的水云、天空的厚云为祂四围的帷幕。
He made darkness His hiding place, His pavilion around Him: Dark waterclouds, thick clouds of the skies.
18:12 有冰雹和火炭，透过祂的厚云，从祂面前的光辉中发出。
Out of the brightness before Him there broke through His clouds Hail and fiery coals.
18:13 耶和华也在天上打雷，至高者发出声音。
Then Jehovah thundered in heaven, And the Most High uttered His voice.
18:14 祂射出箭来，使我的仇敌四散；祂发出闪电，使他们溃乱。
And He sent forth His arrows and scattered my enemies; And He shot forth lightning bolts and discomfited them.
18:15 耶和华阿，你的斥责一发，你鼻孔的气一出，海底就出现，居人之地的根基也显露。
The channels of the sea were seen, And the foundations of the habitable land were laid bare At Your rebuke, O Jehovah, At the blast of the breath of Your nostrils.
18:16 祂从高天伸手抓住我，把我从大水中拉上来。
548
He reached forth from on high; He took me; He drew me out of great waters.
18:17 祂救我脱离我的劲敌，和那些恨我的人，因为他们比我强盛。
He delivered me from my strong enemy And from those who hate me, for they were too mighty for me.
18:18 我遭遇灾难的日子，他们迎面攻击我，但耶和华成了我的扶持。
They confronted me in the day of my calamity, But Jehovah became my support.
18:19 祂领我到宽阔之处；祂救拔我，因祂喜悦我。
He brought me forth to a place broad and free; He rescued me, for He took delight in me.
18:20 耶和华按着我的公义报答我，按着我手中的清洁回报我。
Jehovah has recompensed me according to my righteousness; According to the cleanness of my hands He has repaid me.
18:21 因为我谨守了耶和华的道路，未曾作恶离开我的神。
For I have kept the ways of Jehovah And have not acted wickedly by turning away from my God.
18:22 祂的一切典章常在我面前；祂的律例，我也未曾离弃。
For all His judgments were before me, And I did not turn His statutes away from me.
18:23 我向祂作了完全人，我也保守自己远离我的罪孽。
I was perfect toward Him, And I kept myself from my iniquity.
18:24 所以耶和华按我的公义，按我在祂眼前手中的清洁回报我。
Therefore Jehovah recompensed me according to my righteousness, According to the cleanness of my hands in His sight.
18:25 慈爱的人，你以慈爱待他；完全的人，你以完全待他。
With the faithful You show Yourself faithful, With a perfect man You show Yourself perfect,
18:26 纯洁的人，你以纯洁待他；乖僻的人，你以弯曲待他。
With the pure You show Yourself pure, And with the perverse You show Yourself contrary.
18:27 因为你必拯救困苦的百姓，却使高傲的眼目降卑；
For it is You who save the afflicted people, But the haughty eyes You bring down;
18:28 你必点亮我的灯；耶和华我的神必照明我的黑暗。
For it is You who light my lamp; Jehovah my God lights up my darkness;
18:29 我借着你冲入敌军，借着我的神跳过墙垣。
For by You I can run up against a troop; Indeed by my God I can leap over a wall.
18:30 至于神，祂的道路是完全的；耶和华的话是炼净的。凡投靠祂的，祂便作他们的盾牌。
As for God-His way is perfect ; The word of Jehovah is tried. He is a shield to all who take refuge in Him.
18:31 除了耶和华，谁是神呢？除了我们的神，谁是磐石呢？
For who is God other than Jehovah, And who is a rock but our God?
18:32 惟有那以力量束我的腰，使我道路完全的，祂是神；
The God who girds me with strength And makes my way perfect,
18:33 祂使我的脚快如母鹿的蹄，又使我在高处站稳；
Who makes my feet like hinds' feet And sets me on my high places,
18:34 祂教导我的手能以争战，使我的膀臂能开铜弓。
Who teaches my hands to wage war So that my arms may bend a bronze bow.
18:35 你把你救恩的盾牌赐给了我，你的右手扶持我；你的温和俯就使我为大。
And You have given me the shield of Your salvation, And Your right hand supports me; And Your condescending gentleness has made me great.
18:36 你使我脚下的地步宽阔，我的脚未曾滑跌。
You have broadened the places of my steps under me, And my feet have not slipped.
18:37 我追赶我的仇敌，并且追上他们；不将他们灭绝，我总不转回。
I pursued my enemies and overtook them, And I did not turn back until they were consumed.
18:38 我击溃他们，使他们不能起来；他们都倒在我的脚下。
I shattered them, so that they were not able to rise up; They fell under my feet.
18:39 你以力量束我的腰，使我能争战；你也使那起来攻击我的，都服在我以下。
And You girded me with strength for war; You brought down under me those who rose up against me.
18:40 你又使我的仇敌在我面前转背逃跑，我就歼灭那恨我的人。
You also made my enemies turn their back to me, And I annihilated those who hated me.
18:41 他们呼求，却无人拯救；就是呼求耶和华，祂也不应允。
They cried out, but there was no one to save them; They cried out to Jehovah, but He did not answer them.
18:42 我捣碎他们，如同风前的灰尘；我践踏他们，如同街上的泥土。
Then I beat them like dust before the wind; Like the mud of the streets I pounded them.
18:43 你救我脱离百姓的争竞，立我作列国的元首；我素不认识的民必事奉我。
You rescued me from the strivings of the people; You have made me the head of the nations; A people whom I had not known serves me.
18:44 他们一听见我的名声，就必顺从我；外邦人要归顺我。
At the mere hearing of a report, they obey me; Foreigners come cringing to me;
18:45 外邦人要沮丧，战战兢兢的出他们的营寨。
Foreigners are discouraged And come quaking out of their fortresses.
18:46 耶和华是活神；愿我的磐石受颂赞；愿拯救我的神被高举；
Jehovah lives; and blessed be my rock, And exalted be the God of my salvation,
18:47 这位神就是那为我伸冤，使众民服在我以下，
The God who executes vengeance for me And subdues peoples under me,
18:48 又使我脱离仇敌的。你还把我举起，高过那些起来攻击我的；你救我脱离强暴的人。
Who rescues me from my enemies. Indeed You exalted me above those who rise up against me; From the violent man You delivered me.
18:49 耶和华阿，因此我要在列国中称谢你，歌颂你的名。
549
Therefore I give thanks to You among the nations, O Jehovah; And I will sing psalms to Your name.
18:50 耶和华向祂所立的王显极大的救恩，施慈爱给祂的受膏者，就是给大卫和他的后裔，直到永远。
It is He who magnifies salvation to His king And executes lovingkindness to His anointed, To David and to his seed forever.
诗篇 Psalms 第 19 篇
19:1 诸天述说神的荣耀，穹苍传扬祂手的作为。
The heavens declare the glory of God, And the firmament proclaims the work of His hands.
19:2 这日到那日发出言语；这夜到那夜传出知识。
Day to day pours forth speech, And night to night tells out knowledge.
19:3 无言无语，也无声音可听。
There is no speech and there are no words; Their voice is not heard.
19:4 它们的准绳通遍全地，它们的言语达到地极。神在诸天为太阳安设帐幕；
In all the earth their line has gone forth, And their words to the end of the world. In the heavens He has made a tent for the sun,
19:5 太阳如同新郎出洞房，又如勇士欢然奔路。
And he, like a bridegroom, goes forth from his canopy; He rejoices like a mighty man running the course.
19:6 它从天这边出来，绕到天那边；没有一物被隐藏不得它的热气。
His going forth is from the end of the heavens, And his circuit is unto their ends; And there is nothing hidden from his heat.
19:7 耶和华的律法完全，能苏醒人的魂；耶和华的法度可靠，能使愚蒙人有智慧；
The law of Jehovah is perfect, Restoring the soul; The testimony of Jehovah is faithful, Making the simple wise;
19:8 耶和华的训辞正直，能快活人心；耶和华的命令清明，能明亮人眼；
The precepts of Jehovah are right, Making the heart joyous; The commandment of Jehovah is clear, Enlightening the eyes;
19:9 耶和华的教训洁净，存到永远；耶和华的典章真实，全然公义。
The fear of Jehovah is pure, Enduring forever; The judgments of Jehovah are truth And altogether righteous.
19:10 都比金子可羡慕，且比极多的精金可羡慕；比蜜甘甜，且比蜂房下滴的蜜甘甜。
More to be desired are they than gold, Even much refined gold; Sweeter also than honey And the drippings of the honeycomb.
19:11 况且你的仆人藉此受警戒，谨守这些便有大赏赐。
Moreover by them Your servant is warned; In keeping them there is much reward.
19:12 谁能察知自己的错失呢？愿你不定罪我隐而未现的过错。
Who can discern his errors? Clear me of my secret faults.
19:13 还求你拦阻仆人，不犯任意妄为的罪；不容这罪辖制我；我便可以完全，免犯大过。
Also keep back Your servant from presumptuous sins; Do not let them have dominion over me; Then I will be blameless and cleared Of great transgression.
19:14 耶和华我的磐石，我的救赎主阿，愿我口中的言语，心里的意念，在你面前蒙悦纳。
May the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart Be acceptable before You, O Jehovah, my rock and my Redeemer.
诗篇 Psalms 第 20 篇
20:1 愿耶和华在你遭难的日子应允你；愿雅各神的名将你安置在高处；
May Jehovah answer you in the day of trouble; May the name of the God of Jacob set you on high.
20:2 愿祂从圣所差来帮助，从锡安扶持你。
May He send you help from the sanctuary And support you from Zion.
20:3 愿祂记念你的一切素祭，悦纳你的燔祭。 细拉
May He remember all your meal offerings And accept your burnt offering.
20:4 愿祂照你心所愿的赐给你，成就你的一切筹算。
May He give you according to your heart's desire And fulfill all your intention.
20:5 我们要因你的救恩得胜欢呼，在我们神的名里竖立旌旗。愿耶和华成就你一切所求的。
May we shout victoriously in Your salvation And raise the banner in the name of our God. May Jehovah fulfill all your petitions.
20:6 现在我知道耶和华拯救祂的受膏者，必从祂的圣天上应允他，用祂右手的大能拯救他。
Now I know That Jehovah saves His anointed; He will answer him from His holy heaven With mighty acts of salvation from His right hand.
20:7 有人夸车，有人夸马，但我们要夸耶和华我们神的名。
Some boast in chariots, and some in horses; But we boast in the name of Jehovah our God.
20:8 他们都屈身仆倒，我们却起来，立得正直。
They are humbled and fallen, But we have risen and stand upright.
20:9 耶和华阿，求你拯救！我们呼求的时候，愿王应允我们。
Save, O Jehovah! May the king answer us when we call.
诗篇 Psalms 第 21 篇
21:1 耶和华阿，王因你的能力喜乐；他因你的救恩，何其欢腾。
O Jehovah, in Your strength the king rejoices, And in Your salvation how greatly does he exult.
21:2 他心里所愿的，你已经赐给他；他嘴唇所求的，你未尝不应允。 细拉
You have given him his heart's desire And have not withheld the request of his lips.
21:3 你以美福迎接他，把精金的冠冕戴在他头上。
For You meet him with blessings of goodness; You have set a crown of refined gold on his head.
550
21:4 他向你求寿，你便赐给他，就是日子长久，直到永远。
He asked life of You; You granted it to him: Length of days forever and ever.
21:5 他因你的救恩大有荣耀；你将尊荣威严加在他身上；
His glory is great in Your salvation; You have laid majesty and splendor upon him;
21:6 你使他有洪福，直到永远；又使他在你面前欢喜快乐。
For You have made him to be blessings forever; You have made him glad with rejoicing in Your presence.
21:7 王信靠耶和华；因至高者的慈爱，他必不摇动。
For the king trusts in Jehovah; And because of the lovingkindness of the Most High, he is not shaken.
21:8 你的手要搜出你的一切仇敌；你的右手要搜出那些恨你的人。
Your hand finds all Your enemies; Your right hand finds those who hate You.
21:9 你面光显现的时候，要使他们如在炎热的火炉中；耶和华要在祂的怒中吞灭他们，火要把他们烧尽了。
You make them like a furnace of fire When Your presence appears. Jehovah swallows them in His anger, And fire devours them.
21:10 你必从地上灭绝他们的子孙，从世人中间灭绝他们的后裔。
You destroy their fruit from the earth, And their seed from among the sons of men.
21:11 因为他们有意加害于你；他们想出计谋，却不能成功。
Although they intend evil against You, And they think up a scheme, they will not prevail.
21:12 你必使他们转背逃跑；你对准他们的脸，搭箭在弦。
For You make them turn their back; You aim with Your bowstrings at their faces.
21:13 耶和华阿，愿你因自己的能力得高举；我们就唱诗，歌颂你的大能。
Be exalted, O Jehovah, in Your strength; We will sing and psalm Your might.
诗篇 Psalms 第 22 篇
22:1 我的神，我的神，你为什么弃绝我？为什么远离不救我，不听我唉哼的言语？
My God, my God, why have You forsaken me? Why are You so far from saving me, From the words of my groaning?
22:2 我的神阿，我白日呼求，你不应允；夜间呼求，也得不着安宁。
O my God, I call out in the day, but You do not answer; And in the night, but there is no rest for me.
22:3 但你是圣别的，是用以色列的赞美为宝座的。
But You are holy, You who sit enthroned Upon the praises of Israel.
22:4 我们的祖宗信靠你；他们信靠你，你便解救他们。
In You our fathers trusted; They trusted and You rescued them.
22:5 他们哀求你，便蒙解救；他们信靠你，就不羞愧。
To You they cried out and were delivered; In You they trusted and were not put to shame.
22:6 但我是虫，不是人，是众人所羞辱，百姓所藐视的。
But I am a worm and not a man, A reproach of men and one despised by the people.
22:7 凡看见我的都嗤笑我；他们撇嘴摇头，说，
All who see me deride me; They sneer at me; they shake their heads, saying,
22:8 他把自己交托耶和华，耶和华可以救护他罢；耶和华既喜悦他，可以搭救他罢。
He committed himself to Jehovah; let Him rescue him; Let Him deliver him since He takes pleasure in him.
22:9 但你是叫我出母腹的；我在母怀里，你就使我有倚靠的心。
But You are the One who drew me forth from the womb, Who made me trust while at my mother's breasts.
22:10 我从母胎里就被交托给你；从我母腹中，你就是我的神。
I was cast upon You from birth; From my mother's womb You have been my God.
22:11 求你不要远离我，因为患难临近了，没有人帮助我。
Do not be far from me, For trouble is near, For there is none to help me.
22:12 有许多公牛围绕我；巴珊大力的公牛包围我。
Many bulls surround me; The mighty bulls of Bashan encompass me.
22:13 他们向我张口，好像抓撕吼叫的狮子。
They open their mouth at me, Like a ravening and roaring lion.
22:14 我如水被倒出来，我的骨头都脱了节。我的心如蜡，在我里面融化。
I am poured out like water, And all my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax; It is melted within me.
22:15 我的精力枯干，如同瓦片，我的舌头贴在牙床上；你将我安置在死地的尘土中。
My strength is dried up like a shard, And my tongue is stuck to my jaws; You have put me in the dust of death.
22:16 犬类围着我；恶党环绕我；他们扎了我的手，我的脚。
For dogs surround me; A company of evildoers encloses me; They pierce my hands and feet.
22:17 我的骨头，我都能数算；他们瞪着眼看我。
I count all my bones; They look, they stare at me.
22:18 他们分了我的外衣，又为我的衣服拈阄。
They divide my garments to themselves, And for my clothing they cast lots.
22:19 耶和华阿，求你不要远离我；我的帮助阿，求你快来援助我。
But You, O Jehovah, be not far off; O my help, hasten to aid me.
22:20 求你救我的魂脱离刀剑，救我宝贵的生命脱离犬类的爪；
Deliver my soul from the sword, My precious life from the power of the dog;
22:21 救我脱离狮子的口；求你应允我，使我脱离野牛的角。
Save me from the mouth of the lion; Indeed while I am in the horns of wild oxen, answer me.
551
22:22 我要向我的弟兄宣告你的名；在会中我要赞美你。
I will declare Your name to my brothers; In the midst of the assembly I will praise You.
22:23 你们敬畏耶和华的人，要赞美祂！你们雅各的后裔，都要荣耀祂！你们以色列的后裔，都要畏惧祂！
You who fear Jehovah, praise Him! All you seed of Jacob, glorify Him! And stand in awe of Him, all you seed of Israel!
22:24 因为祂没有轻看、厌恶受苦之人的苦难；也没有向他掩面；那受苦之人向祂呼求的时候，祂就垂听。
For He has not despised nor detested The affliction of him who is afflicted; And He has not hidden His face from him; But when he cried out to Him, He heard.
22:25 我在大会中赞美你的话，是从你而来的；我要在敬畏耶和华的人面前还我的愿。
From You comes my praise in the great assembly; My vows will I pay before those who fear Him.
22:26 卑微的人必吃得饱足；寻求耶和华的人必赞美祂－愿你们的心永远活着！
The lowly will eat and be satisfied; Those who seek after Jehovah will praise Him-May your hearts live forever!
22:27 地的四极都要想念耶和华，并且归向祂；列国的万族，都要在你面前敬拜。
All the ends of the earth Will remember and return to Jehovah, And all families of the nations Will worship before You;
22:28 因为国度是耶和华的，祂在列国中掌权。
For the kingdom is Jehovah's, And He rules among the nations.
22:29 地上一切丰肥的人，必吃喝而敬拜。凡下到尘土中不能存活自己性命的人，都要在祂面前下拜。
All the flourishing of the earth Will eat and worship. All who go down into the dust will bow down before Him, Even he who does not keep his soul alive.
22:30 必有后裔事奉祂；主的事必传述与后代。
A seed will serve Him; That which concerns the Lord will be told to a coming generation.
22:31 他们必来把祂的公义传给将要生的民，言明这是祂所行的。
They will come and declare His righteousness To a people yet to be born, that He has done this.
诗篇 Psalms 第 23 篇
23:1 耶和华是我的牧者；我必不至缺乏。
Jehovah is my Shepherd; I will lack nothing.
23:2 祂使我躺卧在青草地上，领我在可安歇的水边。
He makes me lie down in green pastures; He leads me beside waters of rest.
23:3 祂使我的魂苏醒，为自己的名引导我走义路。
He restores my soul; He guides me on the paths of righteousness For His name's sake.
23:4 我虽然行过死荫的幽谷，也不怕遭害，因为你与我同在；你的杖，你的竿，都安慰我。
Even though I walk Through the valley of the shadow of death, I do not fear evil, For You are with me; Your rod and Your staff, They comfort me.
23:5 在我敌人面前，你为我摆设筵席；你用油膏了我的头，使我的福杯满溢。
You spread a table before me In the presence of my adversaries; You anoint my head with oil; My cup runs over.
23:6 我一生一世必有恩惠慈爱随着我，我且要住在耶和华的殿中，直到永远。
Surely goodness and lovingkindness will follow me All the days of my life, And I will dwell in the house of Jehovah For the length of my days.
诗篇 Psalms 第 24 篇
24:1 地和其中所充满的，世界和住在其间的，都属耶和华。
The earth is Jehovah's, and its fullness, The habitable land and those who dwell in it.
24:2 祂把地奠定在海上，坚立在江河之上。
For it is He who founded it upon the seas And established it upon the streams.
24:3 谁能登耶和华的山，谁能站在祂的圣所？
Who may ascend the mountain of Jehovah, And who may stand in His holy place?
24:4 就是手洁心清，魂不仰慕虚妄，不诡诈起誓的人。
He who has clean hands and a pure heart, Who has not lifted up his soul to falsehood Or sworn deceitfully.
24:5 他必从耶和华得着祝福，又从救他的神得着公义。
He will receive blessing from Jehovah, And righteousness from the God of his salvation.
24:6 这是寻求耶和华的族类，是寻求你面的雅各。 细拉
This is the generation of those who seek Him, Those who seek Your face, even Jacob.
24:7 众城门哪，你们要抬起头来；永久的门户阿，你们要被举起；荣耀的王将要进来。
Lift up your heads, O gates; And be lifted up, O long enduring doors; And the King of glory will come in.
24:8 那荣耀的王是谁呢？就是刚强大能的耶和华，在争战中有大能的耶和华！
Who is the King of glory? Jehovah strong and mighty! Jehovah mighty in battle!
24:9 众城门哪，你们要抬起头来；永久的门户阿，你们要把头抬起；荣耀的王将要进来。
Lift up your heads, O gates; And lift up, O long enduring doors; And the King of glory will come in.
24:10 那荣耀的王是谁呢？万军之耶和华－祂是荣耀的王！ 细拉
Who is this King of glory? Jehovah of hosts-He is the King of glory!
诗篇 Psalms 第 25 篇
25:1 耶和华阿，我的魂仰望你。
To You, O Jehovah, I lift up my soul.
25:2 我的神阿，我素来信靠你；求你不要叫我羞愧；不要叫我的仇敌向我夸胜。
552
O my God, I trust in You; Do not let me be ashamed; Do not let my enemies exult over me.
25:3 凡等候你的必不羞愧；惟有那无故行奸诈的，必要羞愧。
Indeed may all who wait on You not be ashamed; May those who deal treacherously without cause be ashamed.
25:4 耶和华阿，求你将你的道路指示我，将你的路径教训我。
Make Your ways known to me, O Jehovah; Teach me Your paths.
25:5 求你以你的真理引导我，教训我；因为你是救我的神；我终日等候你。
Guide me in Your truth, and teach me; For You are the God of my salvation; I wait on You all the day long.
25:6 耶和华阿，求你记念你的怜恤和慈爱，因为这是亘古以来所常有的。
Remember Your compassions, O Jehovah, And Your acts of kindness, for they are from of old.
25:7 求你不要记念我幼年的罪行，和我的过犯；耶和华阿，求你因你的良善，按你的慈爱记念我。
The sins of my youth and my transgressions, do not remember; According to Your lovingkindness, remember me, For the sake of Your goodness, O Jehovah.
25:8 耶和华是良善正直的；所以祂必指示罪人当行的路。
Jehovah is good and upright; Therefore He instructs sinners concerning the way.
25:9 祂必按公理引领卑微的人，将祂的道路教训他们。
He guides the lowly in justice And teaches the lowly His way.
25:10 对遵守祂的约和祂法度的人，耶和华所行的都是慈爱和真实。
All the paths of Jehovah are lovingkindness and truth To those who observe His covenant and His testimonies.
25:11 耶和华阿，求你因你的名赦免我的罪孽，因为我的罪孽重大。
For the sake of Your name, O Jehovah, Pardon my iniquity, for it is great.
25:12 谁是敬畏耶和华的人？耶和华必指示他当选择的道路。
Who then is the man who fears Jehovah? Him will He instruct concerning the way that he should choose.
25:13 他的魂必居住在福乐中；他的后裔必承受地土。
His soul will dwell in prosperity, And his seed will possess the land.
25:14 耶和华亲密的指教敬畏祂的人；祂必使他们得知祂的约。
The intimate counsel of Jehovah is to those who fear Him, And His covenant will He make known to them.
25:15 我的眼目时常仰望耶和华，因为祂必将我的脚从网里拉出来。
My eyes are continually turned to Jehovah, For He will bring my feet out of the net.
25:16 求你转向我，恩待我，因为我孤独困苦。
Turn toward me, and be gracious to me, For I am alone and afflicted.
25:17 求你解除我心里的愁苦，救我脱离我的祸患。
Relieve the troubles of my heart, And bring me out of my distresses.
25:18 求你看顾我的困苦和我的患难，赦免我一切的罪。
Look on my affliction and my suffering, And forgive all my sins.
25:19 求你察看我的仇敌，因为他们人多；并且他们凶暴的痛恨我。
Look on my enemies, for they are many; Indeed they hate me with a violent hatred.
25:20 求你保守我的性命，搭救我；不要让我羞愧，因为我投奔于你。
Keep my soul, and deliver me; Do not let me be put to shame, For I take refuge in You.
25:21 愿纯全正直保守我，因为我等候你。
May integrity and uprightness preserve me, For I wait on You.
25:22 神阿，求你救赎以色列脱离他一切的愁苦。
Redeem Israel, O God, Out of all his troubles.
诗篇 Psalms 第 26 篇
26:1 耶和华阿，求你为我伸冤，因我向来行事纯全，并且信靠耶和华；我必不摇动。
Judge me, O Jehovah; For I have walked in my integrity, And in Jehovah I have trusted; I will not waver.
26:2 耶和华阿，求你察看我，试验我，熬炼我的肺腑心肠。
Examine me, O Jehovah, and try me; Test my inward parts and my heart.
26:3 因为你的慈爱常在我眼前，我也按你的真理而行。
For Your lovingkindness is before my eyes, And I have walked in Your truth.
26:4 我没有和虚谎人同坐，也不与假冒为善的人往来。
I do not sit with men of falsehood, Nor will I associate with hypocrites.
26:5 我恨恶作恶之人的会，必不与恶人同坐。
I hate the assembly of evildoers, Nor will I sit with the wicked.
26:6 耶和华阿，我要洗手表明无辜，好环绕你的祭坛，
I wash my hands in innocence And go around Your altar, O Jehovah,
26:7 发出称谢的声音，并述说你一切奇妙的作为。
Making myself heard with the voice of thanksgiving And telling out all Your wonderful deeds.
26:8 耶和华阿，我爱你所住的殿，和你的荣耀所居之处。
O Jehovah, I love the habitation of Your house, And the place where Your glory abides.
26:9 不要把我的魂和罪人一同除掉，也不要把我的性命和流人血的一同除掉。
Do not gather my soul with sinners, Nor my life with men of bloodshed,
26:10 他们的手中有恶计，右手满有贿赂。
In whose hand is a wicked scheme, And whose right hand is full of bribes.
26:11 至于我，我行事纯全；求你救赎我，恩待我。
553
But as for me, I walk in my integrity; Redeem me and be gracious to me.
26:12 我的脚站在平坦地方；在众会中我要颂赞耶和华。
My foot stands on level ground; In the assemblies I will bless Jehovah.
诗篇 Psalms 第 27 篇
27:1 耶和华是我的亮光，是我的拯救；我还怕谁呢？耶和华是我生命的力量；我还惧怕谁呢？
Jehovah is my light and my salvation; Whom shall I fear? Jehovah is the strength of my life; Whom shall I dread?
27:2 那作恶的，就是我的敌人，我的仇敌，他们前来吃我肉的时候，就绊跌仆倒。
When evildoers come near me To devour my flesh, It is they, my adversaries and my enemies, Who stumble and fall.
27:3 虽有军兵安营攻击我，我的心也不害怕；虽有争战兴起攻击我，我仍是安然。
If an army camps against me, My heart does not fear; If a battle arises against me, In spite of this I am confident.
27:4 有一件事，我曾求耶和华，我仍要寻求；就是一生一世住在耶和华的殿中，瞻仰祂的荣美，在祂的殿里求问。
One thing I have asked from Jehovah; That do I seek: To dwell in the house of Jehovah All the days of my life, To behold the beauty of Jehovah, And to inquire in
His temple.
27:5 因为在我遭难的日子，祂必将我隐藏在祂的遮蔽处；祂必把我藏匿在祂帐幕的隐密处，将我高举在磐石上。
For He will conceal me in His shelter In the day of trouble; He will hide me in the hiding place of His tent; He will raise me up upon a rock.
27:6 现在我得以昂首，高过四围的仇敌。我要在祂的帐幕里献欢呼的祭；我要唱诗，歌颂耶和华。
And now my head is lifted up Above my enemies who surround me. And I will offer in His tent Sacrifices of shouts of joy: I will sing and psalm to Jehovah.
27:7 耶和华阿，我用声音呼吁的时候，求你垂听，并求你恩待我，应允我。
Hear, O Jehovah, when I call with my voice, And be gracious to me and answer me.
27:8 你说，你们当寻求我的面；那时我的心向你说，耶和华阿，你的面我正要寻求。
When You say, Seek My face, To You my heart says, Your face, O Jehovah, will I seek.
27:9 不要向我掩面；不要在怒中赶逐仆人；你向来是我的帮助。救我的神阿，不要丢弃我，也不要离弃我。
Do not hide Your face from me; Do not turn Your servant away in Your anger; You have been my help. Do not abandon me or forsake me, O God of my salvation.
27:10 我父母离弃我，耶和华必收留我。
If my father and my mother forsake me, Jehovah will take me up.
27:11 耶和华阿，求你将你的道路指教我，因那埋伏等候我者的缘故，引导我走平坦的途径。
Teach me, O Jehovah, Your way, And lead me on a level path Because of those who lie in wait for me.
27:12 求你不要把我交给敌人，遂其所愿；因为作假见证的，和口吐凶恶的，起来攻击我。
Do not give me over To the desire of my adversaries; For false witnesses have risen up against me, And those who breathe out threats.
27:13 我信我必在活人之地得见耶和华的美善。
I have believed That I would see the goodness of Jehovah In the land of the living.
27:14 要等候耶和华；当壮胆，坚固你的心；要等候耶和华。
Wait for Jehovah; Be strong, and let your heart be encouraged. Yes, wait for Jehovah.
诗篇 Psalms 第 28 篇
28:1 耶和华阿，我向你呼求；我的磐石阿，不要不听我；恐怕你向我闭口，我就如下到坑中的人一样。
To You, O Jehovah, do I call out; My rock, do not be deaf to me, Lest, if You are silent to me, I become like those who go down into the pit.
28:2 我呼求你，向你至圣所举手的时候，求你垂听我恳求的声音。
Hear the voice of my supplications When I cry out to You, When I lift up my hands Unto Your innermost sanctuary.
28:3 不要把我和恶人，并作孽的，一同拖去除掉；他们与邻舍说和平话，心里却是奸恶。
Do not drag me away with the wicked And with the workers of iniquity, Who speak peace to their neighbors While evil is in their heart.
28:4 愿你按着他们所作的，并他们所行的恶报应他们；愿你照着他们手所作的报应他们；愿你将他们所应得的报应加给他们。
Repay them according to what they have done And according to the evil of their deeds; According to the work of their hands repay them; Return to them their due.
28:5 他们既然不留心耶和华所行的，和祂手所作的，祂就必拆毁他们，不建立他们。
For they do not regard the acts of Jehovah Or the work of His hands; He will tear them down And not rebuild them.
28:6 耶和华是当受颂赞的，因为祂听了我恳求的声音。
Blessed be Jehovah, For He has heard the voice of my supplications.
28:7 耶和华是我的力量，是我的盾牌；我的心信靠祂，我就得帮助；所以我的心欢乐；我必用诗歌称谢祂。
Jehovah is my strength and my shield; My heart trusts in Him, and I am helped; Therefore my heart exults; And with my song do I give thanks to Him.
28:8 耶和华是祂百姓的力量，又是祂受膏者得救的保障。
Jehovah is their strength; And He is a stronghold of salvation to His anointed.
28:9 求你拯救你的百姓，赐福给你的产业，牧养他们，怀抱他们，直到永远。
Save Your people, And bless Your inheritance; And shepherd them and carry them forever.
诗篇 Psalms 第 29 篇
29:1 神的众子阿，你们要将荣耀能力归给耶和华，都归给耶和华；
Ascribe to Jehovah, O sons of the Mighty, Ascribe to Jehovah glory and strength;
29:2 要将耶和华的名所当得的荣耀归给祂；当以圣别的妆饰敬拜耶和华。
Ascribe to Jehovah the glory of His name; Worship Jehovah in holy splendor.
29:3 耶和华的声音在众水之上；荣耀的神打雷，耶和华打雷在大水之上。
554
The voice of Jehovah is over the waters; The God of glory thunders, Jehovah over the great waters.
29:4 耶和华的声音大有能力；耶和华的声音满有威严。
The voice of Jehovah is powerful; The voice of Jehovah is full of majesty.
29:5 耶和华的声音震破香柏树；耶和华震碎利巴嫩的香柏树。
The voice of Jehovah breaks the cedars; Indeed Jehovah breaks the cedars of Lebanon in pieces;
29:6 祂使利巴嫩跳跃如牛犊，使西连跳跃如野牛犊。
And He makes Lebanon skip like a calf, And Sirion like a young wild ox.
29:7 耶和华的声音使火焰分岔。
The voice of Jehovah cleaves out flames of fire.
29:8 耶和华的声音震动旷野；耶和华震动加低斯的旷野。
The voice of Jehovah shakes the wilderness; Jehovah shakes the wilderness of Kadesh.
29:9 耶和华的声音使母鹿落胎，使林木落叶光秃；凡在祂殿中的都说，荣耀！
The voice of Jehovah causes the hinds to calve And strips the forests bare; And in His temple all say, Glory!
29:10 洪水泛滥之时，耶和华坐在宝座上；耶和华坐着为王，直到永远。
Jehovah sat enthroned at the Flood, And Jehovah sits as King forever.
29:11 愿耶和华赐力量给祂的百姓。愿耶和华赐平安的福给祂的百姓。
May Jehovah give strength to His people. May Jehovah bless His people with peace.
诗篇 Psalms 第 30 篇
30:1 耶和华阿，我要尊崇你，因为你曾救拔我，不让仇敌向我夸耀。
I extol You, O Jehovah, for You have drawn me up And have not let my enemies rejoice over me.
30:2 耶和华我的神阿，我曾呼求你，你医治了我。
O Jehovah my God, I cried out to You, And You healed me.
30:3 耶和华阿，你曾把我的魂从阴间提上来，使我存活，不至于下到坑中。
O Jehovah, You have brought up my soul from Sheol; You have preserved me alive that I would not go down into the pit.
30:4 耶和华的圣民哪，你们要歌颂祂，赞美祂可记念的圣名。
Sing psalms to Jehovah, you who are His faithful ones; And praise His holy memorial.
30:5 因为祂的怒气不过是转眼之间，祂的恩惠乃是一生之久；一宿虽然有哭泣，早晨便必欢呼。
For His anger lasts but a moment, His favor, a lifetime; Weeping may linger in the evening, But a ringing shout goes up in the morning.
30:6 至于我，我在平顺时曾说，我永不动摇。
As for me, I said in my prosperity, I will never be shaken.
30:7 耶和华阿，你曾施恩惠，叫我的山坚立。你掩了面，我就惊惶。
O Jehovah, by Your favor You had made my mountain stand strong. You hid Your face; I was troubled.
30:8 耶和华阿，我曾呼求你；我向耶和华恳求，说，
To You, O Jehovah, I called out; And to Jehovah I made my supplication.
30:9 我被害流血，下到坑中，有什么益处呢？尘土岂能赞美你，传说你的信实么？
What profit is there in my blood if I go down into the pit? Will the dust praise You? Will it declare Your faithfulness?
30:10 耶和华阿，求你应允我，恩待我。耶和华阿，求你帮助我。
Hear, O Jehovah, and be gracious to me. O Jehovah, be my help.
30:11 你已将我的哀哭变为跳舞；你已将我的麻衣解下，用喜乐给我束腰，
You have turned for me my mourning into dancing; You have loosened my sackcloth And girded me with rejoicing,
30:12 好叫我的灵歌颂你，并不住声。耶和华我的神阿，我要赞美你，直到永远。
That my glory might sing psalms to You and not be silent. O Jehovah my God, I will praise You forever.
诗篇 Psalms 第 31 篇
31:1 耶和华阿，我投靠你；求你使我永不羞愧。求你凭你的公义搭救我。
In You, O Jehovah, do I take refuge; Never let me be put to shame. Rescue me in Your righteousness.
31:2 求你向我侧耳，快快救我。求你作护卫我的磐石，作拯救我的山寨。
Incline Your ear to me; Deliver me speedily. Be to me a rock of protection, A fortress, to save me.
31:3 因为你是我的岩石，我的山寨；所以求你为你名的缘故，引导我，引领我。
For You are my crag and my fortress; Therefore for Your name's sake Lead me and guide me.
31:4 求你救我脱离人为我暗设的网罗，因为你是我的保障。
Bring me out of the net That they have secretly laid for me, For You are my protection.
31:5 我将我的灵交在你手里；耶和华真实的神阿，求你救赎我。
Into Your hand I commit my spirit; Redeem me, O Jehovah, God of truth.
31:6 我恨恶那尊奉虚无不实之神的人，但我信靠耶和华。
I hate those who regard vanities of falsehood, But I trust in Jehovah.
31:7 我要因你的慈爱欢腾喜乐，因为你已经看见我的困苦，知道我魂中的艰难。
I will exult and rejoice in Your lovingkindness, Since You have seen my affliction; You know the distress of my soul.
31:8 你未曾把我交在仇敌手里；你使我的脚站在宽阔之处。
And You have not delivered me into the hand of the enemy; You have made my feet stand in a place broad and free.
31:9 耶和华阿，求你恩待我，因为我在急难之中。我的眼睛因忧愁而干瘪，连我的魂与身子，也都衰残。
555
Be gracious to me, O Jehovah, for I am in distress. My eye is wasted away with grief, Indeed my soul and body.
31:10 我的生命在愁苦中耗尽，我的年岁在叹息里旷废。我的力量因我的罪孽衰败，我的骨头也枯干。
For my life has been consumed in sorrow, And my years, in sighing. My strength fails because of my iniquity, And my bones have wasted away.
31:11 我因一切敌人成了凌辱的对象，在邻舍跟前更是这样；那认识我的都惧怕我；在街上看见我的都躲避我。
Because of all my adversaries, I have become a reproach, And especially so to my neighbors, And something dreaded to my acquaintances; Those who see me
on the street flee from me.
31:12 我被忘记，如同死人，无人思念；我好像毁坏的器皿。
I am forgotten, like a dead man out of mind; I am like a destroyed vessel.
31:13 我听见了许多人的谗谤；四围都是惊吓。他们一同商议攻击我的时候，就图谋要害我的性命。
For I hear the slander of many; Terror is on every side. When they take counsel together against me, They scheme to take my life.
31:14 耶和华阿，我仍旧信靠你；我说，你是我的神。
But I trust in You, O Jehovah; I say, You are my God.
31:15 我一生的事在你手中；求你救我脱离仇敌的手，和那些追逼我的人。
My times are in Your hand; Deliver me from the hand of my enemies and from those who pursue me.
31:16 求你使你的脸光照仆人，凭你的慈爱拯救我。
Cause Your face to shine upon Your servant; Save me in Your lovingkindness.
31:17 耶和华阿，我呼求你的时候，求你叫我不至羞愧；求你使恶人羞愧，使他们在阴间静默无声。
O Jehovah, do not let me be put to shame when I call out to You; Let the wicked be put to shame; let them be silent in Sheol.
31:18 那逞骄傲轻慢，出狂妄的话攻击义人的，愿他虚妄的嘴哑而无言。
Let the lips of falsehood be made dumb, Which speak arrogantly against the righteous With pride and contempt.
31:19 你的美善，就是你为敬畏你的人所积存的，并你为投靠你的人，在世人面前所施行的，是何等大呢！
How great is Your goodness, Which You have stored up for those who fear You, Which You have accomplished in the sight of the sons of men For those who take
refuge in You!
31:20 你必把他们藏在你面前的隐密处，免得遇见人的计谋；你必将他们隐藏在遮蔽处，免受口舌的争闹。
You hide them in the hiding place of Your presence Apart from the conspiracies of men; You lay them away secretly in a shelter Apart from the contention of
tongues.
31:21 耶和华是当受颂赞的，因为祂在坚固城里，奇妙的向我施展祂的慈爱。
Blessed be Jehovah, For He displayed His lovingkindness wondrously To me in a fortified city.
31:22 至于我，我曾惊惶的说，我从你眼前被隔绝；然而，我呼求你的时候，你仍听我恳求的声音。
I, on my part, had said in my alarm, I am cut off before Your eyes; But instead You heard The voice of my supplications When I cried out to You.
31:23 耶和华的圣民哪，你们都要爱祂；耶和华护卫忠信的人，足足报应行事骄傲的人。
Love Jehovah, all you who are His faithful ones; Jehovah guards the trustworthy, And recompenses abundantly Him who acts haughtily.
31:24 凡仰望耶和华的人，你们都要壮胆，坚固你们的心。
Be strong, and let your heart be encouraged, All you who hope in Jehovah.
诗篇 Psalms 第 32 篇
32:1 得赦免其过，遮盖其罪的，这人是有福的。
Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven; Whose sin is covered.
32:2 耶和华不算为有罪孽，灵里没有诡诈的，这人是有福的。
Blessed is the man to whom Jehovah does not impute iniquity And in whose spirit there is no deceit.
32:3 我闭口不认罪的时候，因终日唉哼，而骨头枯干。
When I kept silent, my bones wasted away Through my groaning all day long.
32:4 白日黑夜，你的手在我身上沉重；我的精液耗尽，如在夏天的干旱中。 细拉
For day and night Your hand Was heavy upon me; My life sap was dried up As in the drought of summer.
32:5 我向你陈明我的罪，不遮瞒我的罪孽。我说，我要向耶和华承认我的过犯；你就赦免我的罪孽。 细拉
I acknowledged my sin to You, And I did not cover my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to Jehovah. Then You forgave the iniquity of my sin.
32:6 为此，凡虔诚人都当趁你可寻到的时候祷告你；大水泛溢的时候，必不能临及他。
Because of this let everyone who is faithful Pray to You at a time when You may be found; Surely when great waters overflow, They will not reach him.
32:7 你是我藏身之处；你必保守我脱离患难，以得救的欢呼四面环绕我。 细拉
You are my hiding place; You preserve me from trouble; You surround me with the ringing shouts of deliverance.
32:8 我要教导你，指示你当行的路；我要劝戒你，定睛在你身上。
I will instruct you and teach you concerning the way you should go; I will counsel you; my eye is upon you.
32:9 你不可像那无知的骡马，必用嚼环辔头勒住；不然，就不能驯服。
Do not be like a horse or like a mule, without understanding; Whose trappings consist of bit and bridle to restrain them, Else they do not come near you.
32:10 恶人必多受苦楚；惟独信靠耶和华的，必有慈爱四面环绕他。
Many are the sorrows that the wicked have; But he who trusts in Jehovah is encompassed by lovingkindness.
32:11 你们义人应当因耶和华喜乐欢腾；你们心里正直的人，都当欢呼。
Rejoice in Jehovah and exult, O righteous ones; And give a ringing shout, all you who are upright in heart.
诗篇 Psalms 第 33 篇
33:1 义人哪，你们应当因耶和华欢呼；正直人的赞美是合宜的。
Rejoice in Jehovah, O righteous ones. Praise is becoming to the upright.
556
33:2 你们应当弹琴称谢耶和华，用十弦瑟歌颂祂。
Give thanks to Jehovah with the lyre; With the harp of ten strings sing psalms to Him.
33:3 应当向祂唱新歌；弹得巧妙，加上欢呼。
Sing Him a new song; Play skillfully with a joyous shout.
33:4 因为耶和华的言语正直；凡祂所作的，尽都信实。
For the word of Jehovah is right, And all His work is done in faithfulness.
33:5 祂喜爱公义和公平；遍地满了耶和华的慈爱。
He loves righteousness and justice; The earth is full of the lovingkindness of Jehovah.
33:6 诸天藉耶和华的话而造，万象藉祂口中的气而成。
By the word of Jehovah the heavens were made, And all their host, by the breath of His mouth.
33:7 祂聚集海水如垒，把深洋安放在库房。
He gathers the water of the sea like a heap; He puts the deep waters into storage places.
33:8 愿全地都敬畏耶和华；愿世上的居民都畏惧祂。
Let all the earth fear Jehovah; Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of Him.
33:9 因为祂说有，就有；命立，就立。
For He spoke, and it was; He commanded, and it stood.
33:10 耶和华使列国的筹算归于无有，使众民所打算的无有功效。
Jehovah brings the counsel of the nations to nothing; He frustrates the intentions of the peoples.
33:11 耶和华的筹算永远立定，祂心中所打算的万代常存。
The counsel of Jehovah stands forever; The intentions of His heart stand from generation to generation.
33:12 以耶和华为神的，那国是有福的；祂所拣选为自己产业的，那民是有福的。
Blessed is the nation whose God is Jehovah, The people whom He has chosen as His own possession.
33:13 耶和华从天上观看；祂看见一切的世人。
Jehovah looks from heaven; He sees all the sons of men.
33:14 祂从祂的居所，察看地上一切的居民；
From the site of His habitation He gazes At all the inhabitants of the earth,
33:15 祂是那塑造他们众人心的，洞悉他们一切作为的。
He who fashions the hearts of them all, He who discerns all their works.
33:16 君王不能因兵多得胜；勇士不能因力大得救。
No king is saved by a great army; A mighty man is not delivered by great strength.
33:17 靠马得救是枉然的；马也不能因力大救人。
A horse is a vain thing for salvation, And it cannot deliver by its great power.
33:18 看哪，耶和华的眼目，看顾敬畏祂的人，和仰望祂慈爱的人，
Behold, the eye of Jehovah is upon those who fear Him, Upon those who hope in His lovingkindness,
33:19 要救他们的性命脱离死亡，并使他们在饥荒中存活。
To deliver their soul from death And to preserve them alive in famine.
33:20 我们的魂向来等候耶和华；祂是我们的帮助，我们的盾牌。
Our soul waits on Jehovah; He is our help and our shield;
33:21 我们的心必因祂喜乐，因为我们向来信靠祂的圣名。
For in Him our heart rejoices, Because in His holy name we trust.
33:22 耶和华阿，求你照着我们所仰望你的，向我们施慈爱。
May Your lovingkindness, O Jehovah, be upon us, Even as we have hoped in You.
诗篇 Psalms 第 34 篇
34:1 我要时时颂赞耶和华；赞美祂的话必常在我口中。
I will bless Jehovah at all times; His praise will continually be in my mouth.
34:2 我的魂必因耶和华夸耀；卑微的人听见，就要喜乐。
My soul makes its boast in Jehovah; The lowly hear and they rejoice.
34:3 你们要和我一同尊耶和华为大，一同高举祂的名。
Magnify Jehovah with me, And let us exalt His name together.
34:4 我曾寻求耶和华，祂就应允我，救我脱离一切使我恐惧的。
I sought Jehovah, and He answered me; And He delivered me from all that terrified me.
34:5 人仰望祂，便有光荣；他们的脸必不蒙羞。
They looked to Him and were radiant; And their faces will never be abashed.
34:6 我这穷苦人呼求，耶和华便垂听，救我脱离一切患难。
This poor man called out, and Jehovah heard; And He saved him out of all his troubles.
34:7 耶和华的使者，在敬畏祂的人四围安营，搭救他们。
The angel of Jehovah encamps Around those who fear Him, and He delivers them.
34:8 你们要尝尝，便知道耶和华是美善的；投奔于祂的人有福了。
Taste and see that Jehovah is good; Blessed is the man who takes refuge in Him.
34:9 耶和华的圣民哪，你们当敬畏祂，因敬畏祂的一无所缺。
Fear Jehovah, you who are His saints; For there is no lack with those who fear Him.
34:10 少壮狮子，还缺食忍饿；但寻求耶和华的，什么好处都不缺。
The young lions hunger and starve, But those who seek Jehovah will not lack any good thing.
557
34:11 孩子们，你们当来听我的话；我要教导你们敬畏耶和华。
Come, children; hear me. I will teach you the fear of Jehovah.
34:12 谁是那喜爱生命，爱慕长寿，要享美福的人？
Who is the man who desires life, Who loves having days in order to see good?
34:13 你要禁止舌头不出恶言，嘴唇不说诡诈的话。
Guard your tongue from evil, And your lips from speaking deceit.
34:14 要离恶行善，寻求和睦，一心追赶。
Turn away from evil and do good; Seek peace and pursue it.
34:15 耶和华的眼目看顾义人，祂的耳朵听他们的呼求。
The eyes of Jehovah are set toward the righteous, And His ears, toward their cry.
34:16 耶和华向行恶的人变脸，要从地上剪除他们的名号。
The face of Jehovah is against those who do evil, To cut off the memory of them from the earth.
34:17 义人呼求，耶和华听见了，便救他们脱离一切患难。
The righteous cry out, and Jehovah hears; And He saves them out of all their troubles.
34:18 耶和华靠近伤心的人，拯救灵里痛悔的人。
Jehovah is near to those who are broken in heart, And He saves those who are contrite in spirit.
34:19 义人多有患难，但耶和华救他脱离这一切；
Many are the troubles of the righteous man, But Jehovah delivers him from all of them.
34:20 又保全他一身的骨头，连一根也不折断。
He keeps all his bones; Not one of them is broken.
34:21 恶必害死恶人；恨恶义人的，必被定罪。
Evil will slay the wicked, And those who hate the righteous man will be condemned.
34:22 耶和华救赎祂仆人的魂；凡投奔于祂的，必不至定罪。
Jehovah redeems the soul of His servants, And none who take refuge in Him will be condemned.
诗篇 Psalms 第 35 篇
35:1 耶和华阿，与我相争的，求你与他们相争；与我相战的，求你与他们相战。
Strive, O Jehovah, with those who strive with me; Battle against those who battle against me.
35:2 求你拿着大小的盾牌，起来帮助我；
Take hold of buckler and shield, And rise up as my help.
35:3 抽出枪来，挡住那追赶我的；求你对我的魂说：我是你的拯救。
Draw out also the spear, and close up the way Against those who pursue me; Say to my soul, I am your salvation.
35:4 愿那寻索我命的，蒙羞受辱；愿那谋害我的，退后羞愧。
Let those who seek my life Be put to shame and humiliated; Let those who devise evil for me Be turned back and confounded.
35:5 愿他们像风前的糠秕，有耶和华的使者赶逐他们。
Let them be like chaff before the wind, With the angel of Jehovah driving them on.
35:6 愿他们的道路，又暗又滑，有耶和华的使者追赶他们。
Let their way be darkness and slipperiness itself, With the angel of Jehovah pursuing them.
35:7 因他们无故的为我暗设网罗；无故的挖坑要害我的命。
For without cause they hid their net for me; Without cause they dug a pit for me.
35:8 愿毁灭不知不觉间临到他身上；愿他暗设的网缠住自己；愿他落在其中灭没。
Let destruction come upon him unawares, And let his net, which he hid, catch him; Let him fall into it, into destruction.
35:9 我的魂就必因耶和华欢腾，因祂的救恩欢喜。
Then my soul will exult in Jehovah; It will rejoice in His salvation.
35:10 我的骨头都要说，耶和华阿，谁能像你救护穷苦人，脱离那比他强壮的，救护困苦穷乏人，脱离那抢夺他的？
All my bones will say, Jehovah, who is like You, Who delivers the poor from him who is too strong for him, And the poor and needy from him who robs him?
35:11 恶毒的见证人起来，盘问我所不知道的事。
Malicious witnesses rise up; They ask me about things I know nothing of.
35:12 他们向我以恶报善，使我的魂孤苦。
They repay me evil for good; I am bereaved in soul.
35:13 至于我，当他们有病的时候，我便穿麻衣，禁食刻苦己心；我的祷告回到自己的怀中。
But I, when they were sick, Had sackcloth as my clothing; I afflicted my soul with fasting, And my prayer returned to my own bosom.
35:14 我这样行，好像他是我的朋友，我的弟兄；我悲哀屈身，如同人为母亲哀痛。
I conducted myself as if it had been my friend or my brother; Like one mourning for his mother, I bowed down gloomily.
35:15 但我跌倒了，他们却欢喜，大家聚集；我所不认识的那些毁谤者，聚集攻击我；他们不住的把我撕裂。
But at my stumbling they rejoice and gather together; The attackers, whom I did not know Gather together against me; They tear at me and do not cease.
35:16 他们如同不虔敬、好讥诮的阿谀之人，向我咬牙切齿。
As profane mocking parasites, They gnash their teeth at me.
35:17 主阿，你看着不理，要到几时呢？求你救我的魂脱离他们的残害，救我宝贵的生命脱离少壮狮子。
O Lord, how long will You look on? Rescue my soul from their destruction, My precious life from the lions.
35:18 我要在大会中称谢你，在强大的民中赞美你。
I will give You thanks in the great congregation; Among a mighty people I will praise You.
35:19 求你不让那无理与我为仇的，向我夸耀；不让那无故恨我的，向我挤眼。
Do not let those who are wrongly my enemies rejoice over me; Do not let those who hate me without cause narrow their eyes at me.
558
35:20 因为他们不说和平话，倒设想诡诈的言语，害地上的安静人。
For they do not speak peace, But devise words of deceit Against the quiet people of the land.
35:21 他们大大张口攻击我，说，阿哈！阿哈！我们的眼已经看见了。
And they open their mouth wide against me; They say, Aha! Aha! Our eyes have seen it.
35:22 耶和华阿，你已经看见了；求你不要闭口。主阿，求你不要远离我。
You have seen, O Jehovah; do not be silent. O Lord, do not be far from me.
35:23 我的神我的主阿，求你奋兴醒起，判清我的事，伸明我的冤。
Awake, and stir Yourself for my cause, For my claim, O my God and my Lord.
35:24 耶和华我的神阿，求你按你的公义为我伸冤，不让他们向我夸耀。
Vindicate me according to Your righteousness, O Jehovah my God; And do not let them rejoice over me.
35:25 不让他们心里说，阿哈！遂我们的心愿了；不让他们说，我们已经把他吞了。
Do not let them say in their heart, Aha! That is what we wanted. Do not let them say, We have swallowed him up.
35:26 愿那喜欢我遭难的，一同抱愧蒙羞；愿那向我妄自尊大的，披惭愧，蒙羞辱。
May those who rejoice at my trouble Be ashamed and confounded together; May those who magnify themselves against me Be clothed with shame and
humiliation.
35:27 愿那喜悦我公义得表白的，欢呼喜乐；愿他们常说，当尊耶和华为大，祂喜悦祂的仆人安好。
May those who delight in the vindication of my righteousness Give a ringing shout and rejoice, And may they say continually, Jehovah be magnified, Who delights
in the well-being of His servant.
35:28 我的舌头要终日论说你的公义，并且赞美你。
And my tongue will declare Your righteousness And Your praise all day long.
诗篇 Psalms 第 36 篇
36:1 恶人的罪过在他心里说话；他眼中不怕神。
Transgression speaks to the wicked Within his heart; There is no dread of God Before his eyes.
36:2 他谄媚自己，在他看来，他的罪孽不会被查出、被恨恶。
For he flatters himself in his own eyes, That his iniquity cannot be found out and hated.
36:3 他口中的言语，尽是奸恶诡诈；他不再明智，不再行美善的事。
The words of his mouth are wickedness and deceit; He has ceased being wise and doing good.
36:4 他在床上图谋奸恶，站立在不善的道路上，不弃绝恶事。
He plans wickedness on his bed; He sets himself on a way that is not good; He does not reject evil.
36:5 耶和华阿，你的慈爱，及于诸天；你的信实，达到穹苍。
O Jehovah, Your lovingkindness is in the heavens; Your faithfulness reaches unto the skies.
36:6 你的公义，好像神的众山；你的判断，如同深渊；耶和华阿，人和牲畜，你都救护。
Your righteousness is like the mountains of God; Your judgments are like the great deep; You preserve man and beast, O Jehovah.
36:7 神阿，你的慈爱，何其宝贵！世人投靠在你翅膀的荫下。
How precious is Your lovingkindness, O God! Thus the sons of men take refuge in the shadow of Your wings.
36:8 他们必因你殿里的肥甘得以饱足，你也必叫他们喝你乐河的水。
They are saturated with the fatness of Your house, And You cause them to drink of the river of Your pleasures.
36:9 因为在你那里，有生命的源头；在你的光中，我们必得见光。
For with You is the fountain of life; In Your light we see light.
36:10 愿你不断施慈爱给认识你的人，以公义待心里正直的人。
Continue Your lovingkindness to those who know You, And Your righteousness to those who are upright in heart.
36:11 不要让骄傲人的脚践踏我，也不要让凶恶人的手赶逐我。
Do not let the foot of the arrogant come upon me, Nor let the hand of the wicked drive me away.
36:12 在那里，作孽的人已经仆倒；他们被推倒，不能再起来。
There the workers of iniquity are fallen; They are cast down and unable to rise.
诗篇 Psalms 第 37 篇
37:1 不要因作恶的，忿忿不平，也不要嫉妒那行不义的。
Do not be incensed because of evildoers; Do not be envious of wrongdoers.
37:2 因为他们如草快要枯萎，又如青菜快要枯干。
For they soon wither like grass And fade away like green herbage.
37:3 你当信靠耶和华而行善；住在地上，以祂的信实为粮。
Trust in Jehovah, and do good; Dwell in the land, and feed on His faithfulness.
37:4 你要以耶和华为乐，祂就将你心里所求的赐给你。
Delight yourself in Jehovah, And He will give you the requests of your heart.
37:5 当将你的事交托耶和华，并信靠祂，祂就必成全。
Commit your way to Jehovah, And trust in Him; and He will act.
37:6 祂要使你的公义如光发出，使你的公平明如正午。
And He will cause your righteousness to go forth like light, And your justness like noonday.
37:7 你当在耶和华面前静默，耐心等候祂；不要因那道路亨通的，和那恶谋成就的，忿忿不平。
559
Be still before Jehovah, and wait for Him; Do not be incensed because of him who enjoys prosperity on his way, Because of the man who performs his evil
schemes.
37:8 当止住怒气，离弃忿怒；不要忿忿不平，以致作恶。
Cease from anger and forsake wrath; Do not be incensed; it leads only to evil.
37:9 因为作恶的，必被剪除；惟有等候耶和华的，必承受地土。
For the evildoers will be cut off; But those who wait on Jehovah, They will inherit the land.
37:10 还有片时，恶人要归于无有；你就是细察他的地方，他也不在了。
And in a little while longer there will be no wicked man; Indeed, you will look diligently for his place, and he will not be there.
37:11 但卑微的人必承受地土，以丰盛的平安为乐。
But the lowly will inherit the land And delight themselves in the abundance of peace.
37:12 恶人设谋害义人，又向他咬牙。
The wicked man makes evil schemes against the righteous man And gnashes his teeth at him.
37:13 主要笑他，因见他受罚的日子将要来到。
The Lord will laugh at him, For He sees that his day will come.
37:14 恶人已经拔刀拉弓，要打倒困苦穷乏的人，要杀戮道路正直的人。
The wicked have drawn out the sword And bent their bow, To cast the poor and the needy down, To slaughter those who are upright in their way.
37:15 他们的刀必刺入自己的心，他们的弓必被折断。
Their sword will enter their own heart, And their bows will be broken.
37:16 一个义人所有的虽少，胜过许多恶人的富余。
Better is the little that the righteous man has Than the abundance of many wicked.
37:17 因为恶人的膀臂必被折断，但耶和华扶持义人。
For the arms of the wicked will be broken, But Jehovah upholds the righteous.
37:18 耶和华知道完全人的日子，他们的产业要存到永远。
Jehovah knows the days of the perfect, And their inheritance will be forever.
37:19 他们在患难的时候不至羞愧，在饥荒的日子必得饱足。
They will not be put to shame in a time of evil, And in the days of famine they will be satisfied.
37:20 恶人却要灭亡，耶和华的仇敌要像草地的华美：他们要消灭，要如烟消灭。
But the wicked will perish, And the enemies of Jehovah will be like the glory of the pastures: They are consumed; in smoke they are consumed.
37:21 恶人借贷而不偿还，义人却恩待人，并且施舍。
The wicked borrow but do not repay, But the righteous is gracious and gives.
37:22 蒙耶和华赐福的，必承受地土，被祂咒诅的，必被剪除。
For those blessed by Him will inherit the land, But those cursed by Him will be cut off.
37:23 义人的脚步被耶和华立定，他的道路，耶和华也喜爱。
A man's steps are established by Jehovah, And He delights in his way.
37:24 他虽失脚，也不至全身仆倒；因为耶和华搀扶他的手。
If he falls, he is not utterly cast down; For Jehovah upholds him by the hand.
37:25 我从前年幼，现在年老，却未见过义人被弃，也未见过他的后裔讨饭。
I was once a young man; now I am old. Yet I have not seen the righteous man forsaken, Nor his seed seeking bread.
37:26 他终日恩待人，借给人；他的后裔也蒙福。
He is always gracious and lends, And his seed becomes a blessing.
37:27 你当离恶行善，就可永远安居。
Turn away from evil and do good, And abide forever.
37:28 因为耶和华喜爱公平，不撇弃祂的圣民；他们永蒙保守；但恶人的后裔必被剪除。
For Jehovah loves justice And does not abandon His faithful ones; They are kept forever; But the seed of the wicked is cut off.
37:29 义人必承受地土，永居其上。
The righteous will inherit the land, And they will abide in it forever.
37:30 义人的口吐露智慧，他的舌头讲说公平。
The mouth of the righteous utters wisdom, And his tongue speaks justice.
37:31 神的律法在他心里；他的脚步必不滑跌。
The law of his God is in his heart; His steps do not slip.
37:32 恶人窥探义人，想要杀他。
The wicked man watches for the righteous man And seeks to slay him.
37:33 耶和华必不撇他在恶人手中，当他受审判的时候，也不定他的罪。
Jehovah does not leave him in his hand, Nor let him be condemned when he is judged.
37:34 你当等候耶和华，谨守祂的道路，祂就抬举你，使你承受地土；恶人被剪除的时候，你必看见。
Wait for Jehovah, And keep His way; And He will exalt you to inherit the land; When the wicked are cut off, you will see it.
37:35 我见过恶人强横可怕，好像青翠树在本土生长茂盛。
I have seen the wicked man terrorizing, And spreading himself like a luxuriant native tree.
37:36 有人从那里经过，不料，他不在了；我寻找他，却寻不着。
Then someone passes by, and behold, he is not there; I search for him, and he is not found.
37:37 你要细察完全人，观看正直人；因为和平人有好结局。
Observe the perfect man, and watch the upright man; For there is a future for the man of peace.
37:38 至于有过犯的人，必全然灭绝；恶人终必被剪除。
But the transgressors will be altogether destroyed; The future of the wicked will be cut off.
37:39 但义人蒙拯救，是出于耶和华；祂在患难时作他们的保障。
And the salvation of the righteous is from Jehovah; He is their stronghold in a time of distress.
560
37:40 耶和华帮助他们，解救他们；祂解救他们脱离恶人，把他们救出来，因为他们投靠祂。
And Jehovah helps them and rescues them; He rescues them from the wicked, And saves them, for they take refuge in Him.
诗篇 Psalms 第 38 篇
38:1 耶和华阿，求你不要在怒中责备我，不要在烈怒中惩治我。
O Jehovah, do not rebuke me in Your indignation, Nor chasten me in Your burning wrath.
38:2 因为你的箭射入我身，你的手压住我。
For Your arrows have sunk deep in me, And Your hand has come down heavy upon me.
38:3 因你的恼怒，我的肉无一完全；因我的罪，我的骨头无一健全。
There is no soundness in my flesh due to Your indignation; There is no wholeness in my bones due to my sin.
38:4 我的罪孽高过我的头，如同重担叫我担当不起。
For my iniquities have passed over my head; Like a heavy burden, they are too heavy for me.
38:5 因我的愚昧，我的伤口发臭流脓。
My wounds are odious and festering Due to my foolishness.
38:6 我屈身弯腰，弯到极低，终日徘徊哀痛。
I am bent down and bowed utterly; I go about all day long mourning.
38:7 我满腰灼痛，我的肉无一完全。
For my loins are filled with burning, And there is no soundness in my flesh.
38:8 我被压伤，身体麻木；因心里叹息，我就呼喊。
I am benumbed and crushed utterly; I cry out due to the groaning of my heart.
38:9 主阿，我的心愿都在你面前，我的叹息不向你隐瞒。
O Lord, all my desire is before You, And my groaning is not hidden from You.
38:10 我心跳动，我力衰微；连我眼中的光，也没有了。
My heart throbs; my strength fails me; And as for the light of my eyes, neither is it with me.
38:11 我的爱友良朋，因我的灾病，都躲在旁边站着；我的亲属也远远的站立。
Those who love me and those who are my friends stand aloof from my plague, And my relatives stand far away.
38:12 寻索我命的，设下网罗；想要害我的，口出败坏，终日思想诡诈。
And those who seek my soul lay traps for me, And those who pursue my misfortune speak of destruction, And they contemplate deceit all day long.
38:13 但我如聋子不能听，像哑巴不能开口。
But I, like a deaf man, cannot hear; And I am like a dumb man, who cannot open his mouth.
38:14 我如不听见的人，口中没有辩驳。
Indeed I am like a man who does not hear And in whose mouth there are no reproofs.
38:15 耶和华阿，我仰望你；主我的神阿，你必应允我。
For in You, O Jehovah, do I hope; You will respond, O Lord my God.
38:16 我曾说，恐怕他们向我夸耀；免得我失脚的时候，他们向我夸大。
For I said, May they never rejoice over me! When my foot slips, they magnify themselves over me.
38:17 我随时会跌倒，我的痛苦常在我面前。
For I am ready to stumble, And my pain is before me continually.
38:18 我要陈明我的罪孽；我要因我的罪担忧。
For I declare my iniquity; I am anxious because of my sin.
38:19 但我的仇敌又活泼又强壮；无理恨我的人甚多。
But my enemies are vigorous; they are strong; And those who wrongly hate me are many.
38:20 以恶报善的作我的对头，因为我追求良善。
Those also who repay evil for good Are my adversaries because I pursue what is good.
38:21 耶和华阿，求你不要撇弃我；我的神阿，求你不要远离我。
Do not abandon me, O Jehovah; O my God, do not be far away from me.
38:22 拯救我的主阿，求你快快帮助我。
Hasten to help me, O Lord, my salvation.
诗篇 Psalms 第 39 篇
39:1 我曾说，我要谨守我的道路，免得我用舌头犯罪；恶人在我面前的时候，我要笼住我的口。
I said, I will keep my ways, So that I do not sin with my tongue; I will keep a muzzle on my mouth When the wicked are before me.
39:2 我默然无声，连好话也不出口；我的痛苦就发动了。
I was dumb and silent; I held my peace, even from good; And my pain was stirred up.
39:3 我的心在我里面发热；我默想的时候，火就烧起；我便用舌头说话：
My heart was hot within me; While I mused, the fire burned; I spoke with my tongue:
39:4 耶和华阿，求你叫我晓得我的结局，我的寿数几何。愿我知道我的生命何其短暂。
O Jehovah, cause me to know my end, And the measure of my days, what it is. May I know how transient I am.
39:5 看哪，你使我的年日窄如手掌，我一生的年数，在你面前如同无有；各人站得稳妥的时候，不过尽是虚幻。 细拉
Behold, You have made my days as mere handbreadths, And my lifetime is as nothing before You; Surely every man at his best is altogether vanity.
39:6 世人行动实系幻影；他们忙乱，真是枉然：积蓄财宝，却不知将来有谁收取。
Surely man goes about as a semblance; Surely they bustle about in vain: He heaps up riches yet knows not Who will gather them.
561
39:7 主阿，如今我等什么呢？我的指望在乎你。
And now what am I waiting for, O Lord? My hope-it is in You.
39:8 求你救我脱离一切的过犯；不要使我受愚顽人的羞辱。
Deliver me from all my transgressions; Do not make me the fool's reproach.
39:9 因为这是你所作的，我就闭口不语。
I was dumb; I did not open my mouth; For You have done this.
39:10 求你把你的击打从我身上挪去；因你的手与我为敌，我便消灭。
Remove Your plague from me; By the hostility of Your hand I am consumed.
39:11 你因人的罪孽，就责备惩治他，叫他所喜爱的消失，如被虫蛀。众人真是虚幻。 细拉
With rebukes You chasten a man because of iniquity, And cause what is desirous to him to disappear like a moth. Surely every man is vanity.
39:12 耶和华阿，求你听我的祷告，侧耳听我的呼求；我流泪，求你不要静默无声。因为我在你面前是客旅，是寄居的，像我列祖一样。
Hear my prayer, O Jehovah; And give ear to my cry; Do not hold Your peace at my tears. For I am a stranger with You, A sojourner, as all my fathers were.
39:13 求你转眼不看我，使我在去而不返之先，可得畅快。
Look away from me, that I may be cheerful, Before I go away and am no more.
诗篇 Psalms 第 40 篇
40:1 我曾耐心等候耶和华，祂就侧耳垂听我的呼求。
I waited patiently on Jehovah, And He inclined to me And heard my cry.
40:2 祂从毁灭的坑里，从淤泥中，把我拉上来；祂使我的脚立在磐石上，使我脚步稳当。
Then He brought me up out of a pit of destruction, Out of the miry clay; And He set my feet upon a rock, Establishing my steps.
40:3 祂赐新歌在我口中，就是对我们神的赞美。许多人必看见而惧怕，并要倚靠耶和华。
Then He put a new song in my mouth, A praise to our God. Many see it and fear, And they trust in Jehovah.
40:4 那以耶和华为倚靠，不理会狂傲和偏向虚假之辈的，这人便为有福。
Blessed is the man Who makes Jehovah his trust And does not turn to the proud Or to those who turn aside after deception.
40:5 耶和华我的神阿，你所行的奇事，并你向我们所怀的意念甚多，不能向你陈明。我若要宣告并讲论，其事不胜述说。
Many, O Jehovah my God, are the wonderful deeds which You have done And Your thoughts toward us; They cannot be set in order unto You. Were I to declare
and speak of them, They would be too numerous to recount.
40:6 祭物和供物，你不喜悦；你已经开通我的耳朵；燔祭和赎罪祭，非你所要。
You do not delight in sacrifice and offering; You have prepared ears for Me; You do not require burnt offering and sin offering.
40:7 于是我说，看哪，我来了；我的事经卷上已经记载了。
Then I said, Behold, I have come; In the scroll of the book It is written concerning Me.
40:8 我的神阿，我乐意实行你的旨意；你的律法在我里面。
I delight in doing Your will, O My God; Indeed Your law is within My inward parts.
40:9 我在大会中宣传公义的佳音。看哪，我必不止住我的嘴唇；耶和华阿，这是你所知道的。
I bear tidings of righteousness In the great congregation. Behold, I will not withhold My lips; O Jehovah, You know.
40:10 我未曾把你的公义隐藏在心里；我已陈明你的信实和救恩；在大会中，我未曾隐瞒你的慈爱和真实。
I have not hidden Your righteousness Within My heart; I have declared Your faithfulness and Your salvation; I have not concealed Your lovingkindness and Your
truth from the great congregation.
40:11 耶和华阿，求你不要向我止住你的怜恤；愿你的慈爱和真实，常常保守我。
You, O Jehovah, do not withhold Your compassions from me; May Your lovingkindness and Your truth Preserve me continually.
40:12 因有祸患围困我，不可胜数；我的罪孽追上了我，使我不能看见；这些罪孽比我的头发还多；我就心寒胆战。
For evils encompass me until they cannot be counted; My iniquities have so overtaken me That I cannot see; They are more numerous than the hairs of my head;
Thus my heart fails me.
40:13 耶和华阿，求你喜悦搭救我；耶和华阿，求你快快帮助我。
Be pleased, O Jehovah, to deliver me; O Jehovah, hasten to help me.
40:14 愿那些寻索要灭我命的，一同抱愧蒙羞；愿那些喜悦我遭难的，退后受辱。
May those who seek my life to destroy it Be put to shame and confounded together; May those who take delight in my misfortune Be turned back and humiliated.
40:15 愿那些对我说，阿哈，阿哈的，因羞愧败亡。
May those who say to me, Aha! Aha! Be desolate because of their shame.
40:16 愿一切寻求你的，因你欢喜快乐；愿那些爱你救恩的，常说，当尊耶和华为大！
May all those who seek You Be glad and rejoice in You; May those who love Your salvation say continually, May Jehovah be magnified!
40:17 但我是困苦穷乏的；愿主顾念我。你是帮助我的，搭救我的；我的神阿，求你不要耽延。
But I am poor and needy; May the Lord think about me. You are my help and my Deliverer; O my God, do not delay.
诗篇 Psalms 第 41 篇
41:1 眷顾贫穷人的有福了；他遭难的日子，耶和华必搭救他。
Blessed is he who considers the poor; In the day of evil Jehovah will deliver him.
41:2 愿耶和华保守他，使他存活；愿他在地上蒙福；求你不要把他交给仇敌，遂其所愿。
May Jehovah keep him and preserve him alive; May he be blessed in the land; And do not give him over to the hdesire of his enemies.
41:3 他患病在榻，耶和华必扶持他；他在病中，你为他铺床。
Jehovah will sustain him on his sickbed; You make all his bed in his illness.
41:4 我曾说，耶和华阿，求你恩待我；求你医治我的魂，因为我得罪了你。
562
I said, O Jehovah, be gracious to me; Heal my soul, for I have sinned against You.
41:5 我的仇敌用恶言议论我，说，他几时死，他的名才灭没呢？
My enemies speak evil against me: When will he die and his name perish?
41:6 他若来看我，就说假话。他心里积存罪孽，走到外边才说出来。
And if he comes to see me, he speaks falsehood. His heart gathers iniquity to itself; When he goes out, he speaks it.
41:7 一切恨我的，都交头接耳的议论我；他们设计要害我。
All who hate me whisper together against me; Against me they devise my misfortune.
41:8 他们说，有恶病贴在他身上；他躺下，必不能再起来。
Some evil illness, they say, has been poured out on him; And when he lies down, he will not rise again.
41:9 连我知己的朋友，我所倚靠，吃过我饭的，也用脚踢我。
Even my familiar friend, in whom I trusted, Who ate my bread, has lifted his heel against me.
41:10 耶和华阿，求你恩待我，使我起来，我好报复他们。
But You, O Jehovah, be gracious to me and raise me up That I may recompense them.
41:11 因我的仇敌不得向我夸胜欢呼，由此我便知道你喜爱我。
By this I know that You delight in me, That my enemy has not shouted in triumph over me.
41:12 至于我，因我的纯全，你扶持了我，使我永远站在你的面前。
And as for me, You uphold me in my integrity, And You set me in Your presence forever.
41:13 耶和华以色列的神，是当受颂赞的，从永远直到永远。阿们，阿们。
Blessed be Jehovah the God of Israel, From eternity to eternity. Amen and Amen.
诗篇 Psalms 第 42 篇
42:1 神阿，我的魂切慕你，如鹿切慕溪水。
As the hart pants After the streams of water, So my soul pants For You, O God.
42:2 我的魂渴想神，就是活神。我几时才可以来朝见神呢？
My soul thirsts for God, For the living God. When will I come and appear Before God?
42:3 我昼夜以眼泪当饮食；人终日对我说，你的神在那里？
My tears have been my food Day and night, While they say to me all day long, Where is your God?
42:4 我从前与众人同往，用欢呼赞美的声音，领他们到神的殿里，大家守节；我追想这些事，就倒出里面的魂，极其悲伤。
These things I remember, And I pour out my soul within me: That I passed through with the throng; I led them to the house of God With the voice of a joyous shout
and praise, The festal multitude.
42:5 我的魂哪，你为何忧闷？为何在我里面烦躁？应当仰望神；因祂的脸是我的救恩，我还要赞美祂。
Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you disquieted within me? Hope in God, for I will yet praise Him For the salvation of His countenance.
42:6 我的神阿，我的魂在我里面忧闷；所以我从约但地，从黑门岭，从米萨山，记念你。
O my God, my soul is cast down within me; Therefore I remember You From the land of the Jordan and the Hermons, From Mount Mizar.
42:7 你的瀑布发声，深渊就与深渊响应；你的波浪洪涛，都漫过我身。
Deep calls unto deep At the sound of Your water spouts; All Your waves and Your billows Pass over me.
42:8 白昼耶和华必向我施慈爱；黑夜我要歌颂祷告那作我生命的神。
By day Jehovah commands His lovingkindness, And by night His song is with me, A prayer to the God of my life.
42:9 我要对神我的磐石说，你为何忘记我？我为何因仇敌的欺压，徘徊哀痛呢？
I say to God my rock, Why have You forgotten me? Why do I go mourning Because of the oppression of the enemy?
42:10 我的敌人辱骂我，好像打碎我的骨头，他们终日对我说，你的神在那里？
As with a shattering in my bones, My adversaries reproach me, While they say to me all day long, Where is your God?
42:11 我的魂哪，你为何忧闷？为何在我里面烦躁？应当仰望神；因我还要赞美祂，祂是我脸上的救恩，是我的神。
Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you disquieted within me? Hope in God; for I will yet praise Him, The salvation of my countenance and my God.
诗篇 Psalms 第 43 篇
43:1 神阿，求你为我伸冤，向不虔诚的国，为我辨屈；求你救我脱离诡诈不义的人。
Render judgment for me, O God; And plead my cause Before an unfaithful nation; From the deceitful and unjust man Deliver me.
43:2 因为你是保护我的神。你为何丢弃我？我为何因仇敌的欺压，徘徊哀痛呢？
For You are the God of my protection. Why have You rejected me? Why do I go about mourning Because of the oppression of the enemy?
43:3 求你发出你的亮光和真实，好引导我，带我到你的圣山，到你的帐幕。
Send forth Your light and Your truth; They will lead me; They will bring me to Your holy mountain And to Your tabernacles.
43:4 我就到神的祭坛，到我最喜乐的神那里；神阿，我的神，我要弹琴赞美你。
And I will go to the altar of God, To God my exceeding joy; And I will praise You with the harp, O God, my God.
43:5 我的魂哪，你为何忧闷？为何在我里面烦躁？应当仰望神；因我还要赞美祂，祂是我脸上的救恩，是我的神。
Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you disquieted within me? Hope in God, for I will yet praise Him, The salvation of my countenance and my God.
诗篇 Psalms 第 44 篇
44:1 神阿，你在古时，在我们列祖的日子所行的事，我们的列祖给我们讲述过，我们亲耳听见了。
O God, we have heard with our ears; Our fathers have recounted it to us, The work You did in their days, In the days of old.
44:2 你曾用手赶出外邦人，却栽培了我们列祖；你苦待众民，却叫我们列祖发旺伸展。
563
You, by Your hand, Have dispossessed nations, but You have planted our fathers; You afflicted peoples, but You spread our fathers forth.
44:3 因为他们不是靠自己的刀剑得地土，也不是靠自己的膀臂得拯救；乃是靠你的右手、你的膀臂、和你脸上的亮光，因为你喜悦他们。
For they did not possess the land by their sword, Nor did their arm save them; Rather it was Your right hand and Your arm, And the light of Your countenance; For
You delighted in them.
44:4 神阿，你是我的王；求你出令，使雅各得拯救。
You are my King, O God; Command salvation for Jacob.
44:5 我们藉你要推倒我们的敌人；藉你的名要践踏那起来攻击我们的人。
Through You we thrust back our adversaries; Through Your name we trample those who rise up against us.
44:6 因为我必不倚靠我的弓，我的刀也不能拯救我。
For I will not trust in my bow, Nor will my sword save me.
44:7 惟你救了我们脱离敌人，使恨我们的人羞愧。
But You save us from our adversaries, And You put to shame those who hate us.
44:8 我们终日因神夸耀，还要永远赞美你的名。 细拉
In God we boast all day long, And we praise Your name forever.
44:9 然而你丢弃了我们，使我们受辱，不和我们的军兵同去。
Nevertheless You have rejected us and humiliated us, And You have not gone forth with our armies.
44:10 你使我们从敌人面前转身退后；那恨我们的人任意抢夺。
You have caused us to turn back from the adversary, And those who hate us take spoil for themselves.
44:11 你把我们交给人，好像快要被吃的羊，把我们分散在列国中。
You have given us over like sheep to be eaten And have scattered us among the nations.
44:12 你以贱价卖了你的子民，所得的价值并没有使你得利。
You have sold Your people for nothing And have not gone high on their price.
44:13 你使我们受邻国的羞辱，被四围的人嗤笑讥刺。
You have made us a reproach to our neighbors, A mocking and a derision to those around us.
44:14 你使我们在列国中成了笑谈，使众民向我们摇头。
You have made us a proverb among the nations, Something to shake the head at among the peoples.
44:15 我的凌辱终日在我面前，我脸上的羞愧将我遮蔽；
All day long my humiliation is before me, And the shame of my face covers me,
44:16 都因那辱骂并毁谤者的声音，又因仇敌和报仇者的嘴脸。
Because of the voice of him who reproaches and reviles, Because of the presence of the enemy and of him who avenges himself.
44:17 这都临到我们身上；我们却没有忘记你，也没有对你的约不忠实。
All this has come upon us; but we have not forgotten You, Nor have we been false to Your covenant.
44:18 我们的心没有退后，我们的脚步也没有偏离你的路；
Our heart has not turned back, Nor have our steps deviated from Your way;
44:19 但你在野狗之处压伤我们，用死荫遮蔽我们。
But You have crushed us in the place of jackals And have covered us with the shadow of death.
44:20 倘若我们忘了我们神的名，或向别神伸开双手祷告，
If we have forgotten the name of our God Or spread out our hands to a strange god,
44:21 神岂不鉴察这事么？因为祂晓得人心里的隐秘。
Will God not search this out? For He knows the hidden things of the heart.
44:22 但我们为你的缘故，终日被杀，人看我们如将宰的羊。
But for Your sake we are slain all day long; We are considered as sheep for slaughter.
44:23 主阿，求你醒起！为何尽睡呢？求你兴起！不要永远丢弃我们。
Awake! Why are You sleeping, O Lord? Arise! Do not reject us forever.
44:24 你为何掩面，忘了我们所遭的苦难，和所受的欺压？
Why do You hide Your face And forget our affliction and our oppression?
44:25 我们的性命伏于尘土；我们的肚腹紧贴地面。
For our soul bows down to the dust; Our body clings to the earth.
44:26 求你起来帮助我们，因你慈爱的缘故救赎我们。
Rise up; be our help, And redeem us for Your lovingkindness' sake.
诗篇 Psalms 第 45 篇
45:1 我心里涌出美辞，讲说我论到王的作品。我的舌头是快手的笔。
My heart overflows with a good matter; I speak what I have composed concerning the King. My tongue is the pen of a ready writer.
45:2 你比世人更美，你的嘴唇满溢恩典；所以神赐福给你，直到永远。
You are fairer than the sons of men; Grace is poured upon Your lips; Therefore God has blessed You forever.
45:3 大能者阿，愿你腰间佩刀，大有尊荣和威严。
Gird Your sword upon Your thigh, O mighty One, In Your majesty and Your splendor.
45:4 为了真理、温柔、公义，愿你在威严中坐车前往，无不得胜；愿你的右手施行可畏的事。
And in Your splendor ride on victoriously Because of truth and meekness and righteousness; And let Your right hand teach You awesome deeds.
45:5 你的箭锐利，射中王敌之心；众民仆倒在你以下。
Your arrows are sharp: The peoples fall under You; The arrows are in the heart of the King's enemies.
45:6 神阿，你的宝座是永永远远的；你国的权杖是正直的权杖。
Your throne, O God, is forever and ever; The scepter of uprightness is the scepter of Your kingdom.
564
45:7 你爱公义，恨恶邪恶；所以神，就是你的神，用欢乐的油膏你，胜过膏你的同伙。
You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness; Therefore God, Your God, has anointed You With the oil of gladness above Your companions.
45:8 你的衣服，都有没药、沉香、桂皮的香气；象牙宫中有丝弦乐器的声音，使你快乐。
All Your garments smell of myrrh and aloes, of cassia; From palaces of ivory, harpstrings have made You glad.
45:9 有君王的女儿，在你尊贵妇女之中；王后佩戴俄斐金饰，站在你右边。
The daughters of kings are among Your most prized; The queen stands at Your right hand in the gold of Ophir.
45:10 女子阿，你要听，要看，要侧耳而听；要忘记你的民，和你的父家；
Hear, O daughter, and see; and incline your ear; And forget your people and your father's house;
45:11 王就羡慕你的美貌。因为祂是你的主，你当敬拜祂。
Thus the King will desire your beauty. Because He is your Lord, Worship Him.
45:12 推罗的女子必带着礼物而来；民中的富足人，必向你求恩。
And the daughter of Tyre will come with a gift; The rich among the people will entreat your favor.
45:13 王女在宫里，极其荣华；她的衣服是用金线交织成的。
The King's daughter is all glorious within the royal abode; Her garment is a woven work inwrought with gold.
45:14 她要穿刺绣的衣服，被引到王前；随从她的陪伴童女，也要被带到你面前。
She will be led to the King in embroidered clothing; The virgins behind her, her companions, Will be brought to You.
45:15 她们要喜乐欢欣的被引导；她们要进入王宫。
They will be led with rejoicing and exultation; They will enter the King's palace.
45:16 你的子孙要接续你的列祖；你要立他们在全地作首领。
In the place of Your fathers will be Your sons; You will make them princes in all the earth.
45:17 我必叫你的名被万代记念；所以众民要永永远远赞美你。
I will cause Your name to be remembered in all generations; Therefore the peoples will praise You forever and ever.
诗篇 Psalms 第 46 篇
46:1 神是我们的避难所和力量，是我们患难中随时可得的帮助。
God is our refuge and strength; A help in distress, He is most readily found.
46:2 所以地虽改变，山虽摇动到海心，
Therefore we will not fear, Though the earth change, And the mountains slip into the heart of the seas;
46:3 其中的水虽匉訇翻腾，山虽因海涨而战抖，我们也不害怕。 细拉
Though the waters of the sea roar and foam; Though the mountains shake at its swelling.
46:4 有一道河，这河的支流，使神的城快乐；这城就是至高者支搭帐幕的圣处。
There is a river whose streams gladden the city of God, The holy place of the tabernacles of the Most High.
46:5 神在城中；城必不动摇；到天一亮，神必帮助这城。
God is in the midst of her; she will not be moved; God helps her at the dawn of the morning.
46:6 外邦喧嚷，列国动摇。神发声，地便镕化。
The nations rage; the kingdoms are moved. He utters His voice; the earth melts.
46:7 万军之耶和华与我们同在；雅各的神是我们的高台。 细拉
Jehovah of hosts is with us; The God of Jacob is our high retreat.
46:8 你们来看耶和华的作为，看祂怎样使地荒凉。
Come, see the works of Jehovah, How He has made desolations on earth.
46:9 祂止息刀兵，直到地极；祂折弓断枪，用火焚烧战车。
He makes wars cease unto the end of the earth; He breaks the bow and cuts the spear to pieces; He burns the war wagons with fire.
46:10 你们要住手，要知道我是神。我必在列国中被高举；我必在遍地上被高举。
Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations; I will be exalted on earth.
46:11 万军之耶和华与我们同在；雅各的神是我们的高台。
Jehovah of hosts is with us; The God of Jacob is our high retreat.
诗篇 Psalms 第 47 篇
47:1 万民哪，你们都要拍掌；要用夸胜的声音向神欢呼。
Clap your hands, all you peoples; Shout to God with the voice of a triumphant sound.
47:2 因为耶和华至高者是可畏的：祂是管理全地的大君王。
For Jehovah Most High is awesome: A great King over all the earth.
47:3 祂叫众民服在我们以下，又叫列邦服在我们脚下。
He subdues peoples under us, And nations under our feet.
47:4 祂为我们选择产业，就是祂所爱之雅各的荣耀。 细拉
He chose our inheritance for us, The excellency of Jacob, whom He loved.
47:5 神在欢呼声中上升；耶和华在角声中上升。
God ascends amidst shouting; Jehovah, at the sound of a trumpet.
47:6 你们要向神歌颂，歌颂；要向我们的王歌颂，歌颂。
Sing psalms to God, sing psalms; Sing psalms to our King, sing psalms.
47:7 因为神是全地的王；你们要用悟性歌颂。
For God is the King of all the earth; Sing psalms with understanding.
565
47:8 神作王治理列国；神坐在祂的圣宝座上。
God reigns over the nations; God sits upon His holy throne.
47:9 众民的君王聚集，要作亚伯拉罕之神的民；因为地的盾牌是属神的；祂大得高举。
The princes of the peoples have been gathered As the people of the God of Abraham; For the shields of the earth belong to God; He is greatly exalted.
诗篇 Psalms 第 48 篇
48:1 耶和华为大，在我们神的城中，在祂的圣山上，该大受赞美。
Great is Jehovah, And much to be praised In the city of our God, In His holy mountain.
48:2 在北面的锡安山，是大君王的城，居高华美，为全地所喜悦。
Beautiful in elevation, The joy of the whole earth, Is Mount Zion, the sides of the north, The city of the great King.
48:3 神在城的宫中自显为高台。
God has made Himself known In her palaces as a high retreat.
48:4 看哪，众王会合，一同经过。
For, behold, the kings have assembled themselves; They passed by together.
48:5 他们见了这城，就诧异惊惶，急忙逃跑。
They saw; therefore they were astounded. They were dismayed; they hurried off in alarm.
48:6 战兢在那里抓住他们；他们疼痛挣扎，好像产难的妇人一样。
Trembling seized them there; Writhing, like that of a woman in labor;
48:7 神阿，你用东风打破他施的船只。
With an east wind You shattered The ships of Tarshish.
48:8 我们在万军之耶和华的城中，就是我们神的城中，所看见的，正如我们所听见的。神必坚立这城，直到永远。 细拉
As we have heard, So we have seen In the city of Jehovah of hosts, In the city of our God. God will establish her forever.
48:9 神阿，我们在你的殿中，想念你的慈爱。
We consider, O God, Your lovingkindness In the midst of Your temple.
48:10 神阿，你受的赞美，正如你的名一样，直到地极；你的右手满了公义。
As Your name is, O God, So is Your praise Unto the ends of the earth; Your right hand is full of righteousness.
48:11 因你的判断，锡安山应当快乐，犹大的女子应当欢腾。
Let Mount Zion rejoice; Let the daughters of Judah exult Because of Your judgments.
48:12 你们当周游锡安，四围旋绕，数点城楼。
Walk about Zion, and go around her; Count her towers.
48:13 当细看她的外郭，巡察她的宫殿，为要传述给后代。
Consider carefully her bulwarks; Pass between her palaces; That you may recount it to the generation following.
48:14 因为这神永永远远为我们的神；祂必引导我们，直到死时。
For this God is our God forever and ever. He will guide us even unto death.
诗篇 Psalms 第 49 篇
49:1 万民哪，你们都当听这话；世上一切的居民，
Hear this, all you peoples; Give ear, all you inhabitants of the world,
49:2 无论上流下流，富足贫穷，都当侧耳听；
Both low and high, Rich and poor together;
49:3 我口要说智慧的话，我心所默想的是通达的事。
My mouth will speak wisdom, And the meditation of my heart will be that of understanding.
49:4 我要侧耳听比喻，用琴解谜语。
I will incline my ear to a parable; I will disclose my riddle upon the harp.
49:5 在患难的日子，欺诈我者的罪孽四面环绕我，我何必惧怕？
Why should I fear in the days of evil, When the iniquity of those who supplant me surrounds me,
49:6 那些人不过是倚靠自己的财货，夸耀自己钱财的丰裕，
Those who trust in their wealth And boast in the multitude of their riches?
49:7 他们一个也无法赎自己的弟兄，或替他将赎价给神，
None can by any means redeem his brother Or give to God a ransom for him
49:8 (因为赎他生命的价值极贵，只可永远罢休，)
(For the redemption of their soul is costly And must be given up forever),
49:9 叫他仍长远活着，不见朽坏。
That he would yet live always And not see corruption.
49:10 他必见智慧人死亡；又见愚顽人和无知人一同灭亡，将他们的财货留给别人。
For he will see that wise men die; The foolish one and the senseless one perish alike And leave their wealth to others.
49:11 他们心里思想，他们的家必永存，他们的住处必留到万代；他们以自己的名，称自己的地。
Their inward thought is that their houses will remain forever, That their habitations will remain from generation to generation; They call lands after their own
names.
49:12 但人在尊贵中不能长久，乃像要灭亡的畜类一样。
But man in honor does not remain; He is like the beasts that perish.
49:13 这就是信赖自己者的道路；也是在他们以后，称许他们话语者的道路。 细拉
566
Such is the way of those who are self-confident, And of those after them who approve of their sayings.
49:14 他们如同羊群派定下阴间；死亡必牧养他们。并且他们要直下到坟墓，他们的形体必被阴间所灭，以致他们无处可住。
Like a flock, they are appointed for Sheol; Death will shepherd them. And straight to the grave they will descend, And their form will be for Sheol to consume That
there be no abode for them.
49:15 只是神必救赎我的魂，脱离阴间的能力，因祂必收纳我。 细拉
But God will redeem my soul From the power of Sheol, For He will receive me.
49:16 见人发财、家室增荣的时候，你不要惧怕。
Do not fear when a man becomes rich, When the glory of his house increases.
49:17 因为他死的时候，什么也不能带去；他的荣耀不能随他下去。
For when he dies, he will take nothing; His glory will not descend after him.
49:18 他活着的时候，虽然自求多福，(你若使自己得福，人必夸奖你，)
Though he blessed his soul while he lived-And men praise you when you do good for yourself -
49:19 他必到他历代的祖宗那里去；他们永不见光。
It will go to the generation of his fathers; They will never see light.
49:20 人在尊贵中却没有悟性，就像要灭亡的畜类一样。
A man in honor but without understanding Is like the beasts that perish.
诗篇 Psalms 第 50 篇
50:1 大能者神耶和华，已经发言呼唤大地，从日出之地到日落之处。
The Mighty One, God Jehovah, Speaks and summons the earth From the rising of the sun to its setting.
50:2 从全美的锡安，神已经发光了。
Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God shines forth.
50:3 我们的神要来，绝不静默；有烈火在祂面前吞灭，有暴风在祂四围猛刮。
Our God has come and will not be silent; Fire devours before Him, And around Him it is exceedingly tempestuous.
50:4 祂呼唤上天下地，为要审判祂的民，说，
He calls to the heavens above, And to the earth that He may judge His people:
50:5 招聚我的圣民到我这里来，就是那些用祭物与我立约的人。
Gather My saints to Me, Those who have made a covenant with Me by sacrifice.
50:6 诸天必表明祂的公义，因为神自己是审判者。 细拉
Then the heavens declare His righteousness, For God Himself is Judge.
50:7 我的民哪，你们当听，我要说话；以色列阿，我要警戒你：我是神，是你的神。
Hear, O My people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will testify against you: I am God, your God.
50:8 我不是因你的祭物责备你，你的燔祭常在我面前。
I will not reprove you because of your sacrifices, And your burnt offerings are before Me continually.
50:9 我不从你家中取公牛，也不从你圈内取山羊；
I will not take a bull from your house Nor goats from your folds,
50:10 因为树林中的百兽都是我的，千山上的牲畜也是我的。
For every animal of the forest is Mine, The cattle upon a thousand hills.
50:11 山中的飞鸟，我都认识；野地的走兽，我全知悉。
I know every bird of the mountains, And I am aware of everything that moves in the field.
50:12 我若是饥饿，我不用告诉你；因为世界和其中所充满的，都是我的。
If I were hungry, I would not tell you; For the world is Mine and the fullness thereof.
50:13 我岂吃公牛的肉，或喝山羊的血呢？
Shall I eat the flesh of bulls Or drink the blood of goats?
50:14 你要向神献上感谢祭；又要向至高者还你的愿；
Offer to God a sacrifice of thanksgiving, And repay your vows to the Most High;
50:15 并要在患难之日呼求我：我必搭救你，你也要荣耀我。
And call upon Me in the day of trouble: I will deliver you, and you will glorify Me.
50:16 但神对恶人说，你有何权传述我的律例，口中提到我的约呢？
But to the wicked God says, What right do you have to declare My statutes And take up My covenant in your mouth,
50:17 其实你恨恶管教，将我的言语丢在背后。
Seeing that you hate correction And cast My words behind you?
50:18 你见了盗贼，就乐意与他在一起；你又与行奸淫的人，一同有分。
When you see a thief, you take pleasure in him; And your portion is with adulterers.
50:19 你口任说恶言，你舌编造诡诈。
You let your mouth loose for evil, And your tongue frames deceit.
50:20 你坐着毁谤你的兄弟，谗毁你母亲的儿子。
You sit and speak against your brother; You defame the son of your mother.
50:21 你行了这些事，我还闭口不言；你想我恰和你一样。其实我要责备你，将这些事摆在你眼前。
These things you do, and I keep silent; You think that I am altogether like you. I will rebuke you and set forth the matter in order before your eyes.
50:22 你们忘记神的，要思想这事，免得我把你们撕碎，无人搭救。
Consider this then, you who forget God, Lest I tear you apart and there be none to deliver you.
50:23 凡献上感谢祭的，便是荣耀我；那使自己道路正直的，我必使他看见神的救恩。
Whoever offers a sacrifice of thanksgiving glorifies Me; And to him who sets his way right I will show the salvation of God.
567
诗篇 Psalms 第 51 篇
51:1 神阿，求你按你的慈爱恩待我，按你丰盛的怜恤涂抹我的过犯。
Be gracious to me, O God, according to Your lovingkindness; According to the greatness of Your compassions blot out my transgressions.
51:2 求你将我的罪孽洗涤净尽，并洁净我的罪。
Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, And from my sin cleanse me.
51:3 因为我知道我的过犯，我的罪常在我面前。
For I do know my transgressions, And my sin is before me continually.
51:4 我向你犯罪，惟独得罪了你；我在你眼前行了这恶。因此你责备的时候，显为公义；判断的时候，显为清正。
Against You and You alone have I sinned, And I have done what is evil in Your sight. Therefore You are righteous when You speak; You are clear when You judge.
51:5 看哪，我是在罪孽里生的，我母亲在罪中怀了我。
Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, And in sin did my mother conceive me.
51:6 看哪，你所喜爱的，是内里真实；你在我隐密处，必使我认识智慧。
Behold, You delight in truth in the inward parts; And in the hidden part You would make known wisdom to me.
51:7 求你用牛膝草洁净我的罪，我就洁净；求你洗涤我，我就比雪更白。
Purge my sin with hyssop, and I will be clean; Wash me, and I will be whiter than snow.
51:8 求你使我得听欢喜快乐的声音，使你所压伤的骨头，可以踊跃。
Let me hear gladness and joy, That the bones which You have broken may exult.
51:9 求你掩面不看我的罪，涂抹我一切的罪孽。
Hide Your face from my sins, And blot out all my iniquities.
51:10 神阿，求你为我造清洁的心，使我里面重新有正直的灵。
Create in me a clean heart, O God, And renew a steadfast spirit within me.
51:11 不要丢弃我，使我离开你的面；不要从我取去你圣别的灵。
Do not cast me from Your presence, And do not take the Spirit of Your holiness away from me.
51:12 求你使我复得你救恩之乐，赐我乐意的灵扶持我。
Restore to me the gladness of Your salvation, And sustain me with a willing spirit.
51:13 我必将你的道路指教有过犯的人，罪人必回转归向你。
I will teach transgressors Your ways, And sinners will turn back to You.
51:14 神阿，拯救我的神阿，求你救我脱离流人血的罪；我的舌头就欢唱你的公义。
Deliver me from the guilt of bloodshed, O God, O God of my salvation; And my tongue will ring forth Your righteousness.
51:15 主阿，求你使我嘴唇张开，我的口便传扬赞美你的话。
O Lord, open my lips, And my mouth will declare Your praise.
51:16 你本不喜爱祭物；若喜爱，我就献上；燔祭你也不喜悦。
For You do not delight in sacrifice; Otherwise I would offer it; You take no pleasure in burnt offerings.
51:17 神所要的祭，就是忧伤的灵；神阿，忧伤痛悔的心，你必不轻看。
The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit; A broken and a contrite heart, O God, You will not despise.
51:18 求你按你的美意善待锡安，建造耶路撒冷的城墙。
Do good in Your good pleasure unto Zion; Build the walls of Jerusalem.
51:19 那时，你必喜爱公义的祭、燔祭、并全牲的燔祭；那时，人必将公牛献在你坛上。
Then You will delight in the sacrifices of righteousness, In burnt offerings and whole burnt offerings; Then they will offer bulls upon Your altar.
诗篇 Psalms 第 52 篇
52:1 勇士阿，你为何以作恶自夸？神的慈爱是常存的。
Why do you boast in evil, O mighty one? God's lovingkindness endures continually.
52:2 行诡诈的人哪，你的舌头图谋败坏的事，好像磨快的剃刀。
Your tongue devises destruction; It is like a sharpened razor, O worker of deceit.
52:3 你爱恶不爱善，爱说谎不爱说公义。 细拉
You have loved evil rather than good, Falsehood rather than speaking righteousness.
52:4 诡诈的舌头阿，你爱说一切吞吃人的话。
You have loved all the devouring words, O deceitful tongue.
52:5 神也要拆毁你，直到永远；祂要把你拿去，从你的帐棚中抽出，从活人之地将你连根拔除。 细拉
God will likewise break you down forever; He will take you and pluck you up from your tent, And uproot you from the land of the living.
52:6 义人要看见而惧怕，并要笑他，说，
And the righteous will see it and fear, And they will laugh at him, saying,
52:7 看哪，这就是那不以神为他力量的人，只倚仗他丰盛的财富，在欲望上坚立自己。
Behold, this is that mighty man Who did not make God his strength, But trusted in the multitude of his riches And strengthened himself in his desire.
52:8 至于我，我像神殿中青翠的橄榄树，永永远远倚靠神的慈爱。
But I, like a flourishing olive tree In the house of God, Trust in God's lovingkindness Forever and ever.
52:9 我要称谢你，直到永远，因为你行了这事；我也要在你圣民面前仰望你的名，这名本为美好。
I will give You thanks forever, For You have acted; And I will hope in Your name in the presence of Your faithful ones, For it is good.
568
诗篇 Psalms 第 53 篇
53:1 愚顽人心里说，没有神。他们都是败坏，行了可憎恶的事；没有一个人行善。
The fool has said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt and commit abominable deeds; There is none who does good.
53:2 神从天上垂看世人，要看有明白的没有，有寻求祂的没有。
God looked down from heaven Upon the sons of men To see if there was anyone who had insight, Who seeks after God.
53:3 他们各人都退后，一同变为败坏；并没有行善的，连一个也没有。
All of them have turned back; They are together perverse. There is none who does good; There is not even one.
53:4 作孽的没有知识么？他们吞吃我的百姓如同吃饭一样，并不呼求神。
Have they no knowledge, the workers of iniquity, Who eat up my people as they would eat up bread And do not call upon God?
53:5 他们在无可惧怕之处，大大的害怕，因为神把那安营攻击你之人的骨头散开了。你使他们蒙羞，因为神弃绝了他们。
There they were in great fear, Where there was no fear. For God scattered the bones Of him who encamped against you. You put them to shame Because God
has rejected them.
53:6 但愿以色列的救恩从锡安而出！神使祂被掳的子民归回，那时雅各要欢腾，以色列要喜乐。
Oh that the salvation of Israel might come forth from Zion! When God turns the captivity of His people, Jacob will exult, Israel will rejoice.
诗篇 Psalms 第 54 篇
54:1 神阿，求你以你的名救我，凭你的大能为我伸冤。
O God, save me by Your name, And execute judgment for me by Your might.
54:2 神阿，求你听我的祷告，侧耳听我口中的言语。
O God, hear my prayer; Give ear to the words of my mouth.
54:3 因为外人起来攻击我，强暴人寻索我的命；他们不把神摆在眼里。 细拉
For strangers have risen up against me, And those who terrorize seek my life; They do not set God before them.
54:4 看哪，神是帮助我的，主是扶持我命的。
Behold, God is my Helper; The Lord is among those who sustain my soul.
54:5 祂要报应那些埋伏等候我之人的恶。求你凭你的信实灭绝他们。
He will return the evil to those who lie in wait for me. Annihilate them in Your faithfulness.
54:6 我要把甘心祭献给你；耶和华阿，我要赞美你的名，这名本为美好。
I will offer a freewill offering to You; I will praise Your name, O Jehovah, for it is good.
54:7 祂从一切的急难中，把我救出来；我的眼睛也看见了我仇敌遭报。
For He has delivered me from all distress, And my eye looks triumphantly upon my enemies.
诗篇 Psalms 第 55 篇
55:1 神阿，求你侧耳听我的祷告；不要隐藏不听我的恳求。
Give ear, O God, to my prayer; And do not hide Yourself from my supplication.
55:2 求你垂听我，应允我。我哀叹不安，发声唉哼，
Give heed to me, and answer me. I grow restless in my complaint and moan,
55:3 都因仇敌的声音，恶人的欺压；因为他们使祸患落在我身上，发怒气以我为敌。
Because of the voice of the enemy, Because of the oppression of the wicked man; For they drop iniquity upon me, And in anger they make me their enemy.
55:4 我的心在我里面绞痛，死的惊惶落在我身上。
My heart writhes within me, And the terrors of death have fallen upon me.
55:5 恐惧战兢临到我，惊恐漫过了我。
Fear and trembling have come upon me, And shuddering overwhelms me.
55:6 我说，但愿我有翅膀像鸽子，我就飞去，得以栖息。
And I say, Oh that I had wings like a dove! Then I would fly away and be at rest.
55:7 我必远游，宿在旷野。 细拉
Indeed I would wander far away; I would lodge in the wilderness.
55:8 我必速速逃走，脱离狂风暴雨。
I would hasten my escape From the storm wind and the tempest.
55:9 主阿，求你使他们混乱，意见分歧；因为我在城中看见了强暴和争竞的事。
Confuse, O Lord, divide their tongue; For I have seen violence and contention in the city.
55:10 他们在城墙上昼夜绕行；在城内有罪孽和患难。
Day and night they go around it, Upon its walls; And iniquity and trouble are in the midst of it.
55:11 城内也有毁坏人的事，欺压和诡诈不离其街市。
Utter ruin is in the midst of it, And oppression and deceit Do not depart from its streets.
55:12 原来不是仇敌辱骂我；若是仇敌，还可忍耐。也不是恨我的人向我夸大；若是恨我的人，还可躲避他。
For it is not an enemy who reproaches me; Otherwise I could bear it. It is not he who hates me who magnifies himself against me; Otherwise I could hide myself
from him.
55:13 不料是你，你原与我平等，是我的密友，是我的知己。
But it is you, my equal, My close friend and my acquaintance.
55:14 我们素常甜蜜的交谈；我们与群众在神的殿中同行。
We were in sweet counsel together; We walked with the throng in the house of God.
569
55:15 愿死亡忽然临到他们；愿他们活活的下入阴间；因为在他们的住处，在他们中间，都是邪恶。
Let death surprise them; May they go down into Sheol alive. For evil is in their dwelling, in the midst of them.
55:16 至于我，我要呼求神，耶和华必拯救我。
As for me, I call out to God, And Jehovah will save me.
55:17 我要在晚上、早晨、晌午，哀怨悲叹，祂必听我的声音。
Evening and morning and at noontime I complain and moan, And He hears my voice.
55:18 祂救赎我命脱离攻击我的人，使我得享平安，因为与我相争的人甚多。
He has redeemed my soul in peace From the battle against me, For many are they who strive with me.
55:19 那从亘古坐在宝座上的神，必听见而苦待他们－细拉 因为他们没有改变，也不敬畏神。
God hears and answers them-Even He who sits enthroned from of old-Because with them there is no change, And they do not fear God.
55:20 他伸手攻击与他和好的人；他违犯自己的约。
He put forth his hands against those who were at peace with him; He profaned his covenant.
55:21 他的口如奶油光滑，他的心却怀着争战；他的话比油柔和，其实是拔出来的刀。
Smooth were the buttery words of his mouth, But his heart was war; More soothing than oil were his words, But they were in fact drawn swords.
55:22 你要把你的重担卸给耶和华，祂必扶持你；祂永不叫义人动摇。
Cast your burden upon Jehovah, And He will sustain you; He will never allow the righteous to be moved.
55:23 神阿，你必使那些人下入朽坏的坑。流人血行诡诈的人，必活不到半世；但我要信靠你。
But You, O God, will bring them down Into the lowest pit. Men of bloodshed and deceit Will not live out half their days; But I will trust in You.
诗篇 Psalms 第 56 篇
56:1 神阿，求你恩待我，因为人践踏我，终日攻击欺压我。
Be gracious to me, O God; for man tramples me; All day long he, fighting, oppresses me.
56:2 埋伏等候我的人，终日践踏我，因逞骄傲攻击我的人甚多。
Those who lie in wait for me trample me all day long, For many are those who arrogantly fight against me.
56:3 我惧怕的时候要信靠你。我信靠神，我赞美祂的话；
When I am afraid, I trust in You.
56:4 我信靠神，必不惧怕；血肉之人能把我怎么样呢？
In God, whose word I praise, In God do I trust, and I will not be afraid. What can flesh do to me?
56:5 他们终日扭曲我的话；他们一切的计谋，都是要害我。
All day long they wrest my words; All their thoughts are against me for evil.
56:6 他们聚集，埋伏窥探我的脚踪，等候要害我的命。
They gather themselves; they lurk; They watch my steps, As they have waited to take my life.
56:7 他们有罪孽，还能逃脱么？神阿，求你在怒中使众民坠落灭亡。
Will there be deliverance for them in spite of their iniquity? In anger cast down the peoples, O God.
56:8 我几次流离，你都数算。求你把我的眼泪装在你的皮袋里。这不都记在你册子上么？
You have counted my wanderings. Put my tears into Your bottle. Are they not in Your book?
56:9 我呼求的日子，我的仇敌都要转身退后；神帮助我，这是我所知道的。
Then my enemies will turn back When I call; This I know, That God is for me.
56:10 我信靠神，我赞美祂的话；我信靠耶和华，我赞美祂的话；
In God, whose word I praise, In Jehovah, whose word I praise,
56:11 我信靠神，必不惧怕；人能把我怎么样呢？
In God do I trust; I will not be afraid. What can man do to me?
56:12 神阿，我向你所许的愿在我身上；我要将感谢祭献给你。
Your vows, O God, are on me; I will render thank offerings to You.
56:13 因为你救了我的命脱离死亡；你确实救了我的脚不至跌倒，使我在活人的光中行在神面前。
For You have delivered my soul from death, Indeed, my feet from stumbling, That I may walk before God In the light of the living.
诗篇 Psalms 第 57 篇
57:1 神阿，求你恩待我，恩待我；因为我的心投靠你；我要投靠在你翅膀的荫下，等到灾害过去。
Be gracious to me, O God, be gracious to me; For my soul takes refuge in You; Indeed in the shadow of Your wings I will take refuge, Until the destruction passes
by.
57:2 我要呼求至高的神，就是为我成全诸事的神。
I call out to God the Most High, To the God who accomplishes all things for me.
57:3 神必从天上发出慈爱和信实，并拯救我，祂斥责那践踏我的人；细拉神必向我发出祂的慈爱和信实。
He sends forth from heaven and saves me; He reproaches him who would trample me; God sends forth His lovingkindness and His faithfulness.
57:4 我的性命在狮子中间；我躺卧在性如烈火的世人当中，他们的牙齿是枪是箭；他们的舌头是快刀。
My soul is among lions; I lie down among those who blaze forth, the sons of men, Whose teeth are spears and arrows, And whose tongue is a sharp sword.
57:5 神阿，愿你被高举，过于诸天；愿你的荣耀遍及全地。
Be exalted above the heavens, O God; Let Your glory be above all the earth.
57:6 他们为我的脚步设下网罗，压制我的心。他们在我面前挖了坑，自己反掉在其中。 细拉
They have prepared a net for my steps; My soul is bowed down. They have dug a pit before me; They have fallen into it themselves.
57:7 神阿，我心坚定，我心坚定。我要唱诗，我要歌颂。
570
My heart is steadfast, O God; My heart is steadfast. I will sing, indeed I will sing psalms.
57:8 我的荣耀阿，你当醒起；琴瑟阿，你们当醒起！我要极早醒起。
Awake, my glory; Awake, O harp and lyre! I will awaken the dawn.
57:9 主阿，我要在众民中称谢你；我要在列邦中歌颂你。
I will give thanks to You among the peoples, O Lord; I will sing psalms to you among the nations.
57:10 因为你的慈爱如诸天之大；你的信实达到穹苍。
For Your lovingkindness is as great as the heavens; And Your faithfulness reaches the sky.
57:11 神阿，愿你被高举，过于诸天；愿你的荣耀遍及全地。
Be exalted above the heavens, O God; Let Your glory be above all the earth.
诗篇 Psalms 第 58 篇
58:1 审判者阿，你们果真讲公义么？世人哪，你们施行审判，岂按正直么？
Do you indeed, O judges, speak righteousness? Do you judge in uprightness, O sons of men?
58:2 不然，你们是心中谋行不义；你们在地上称出你们手所行的强暴。
No, in heart you perform injustice; You weigh out the violence of your hands on earth.
58:3 恶人一出母胎，就与神疏远；一离母腹，便走错路，说谎言。
The wicked are estranged from the womb; They err from their birth, speaking lies.
58:4 他们的毒气，好像蛇的毒气；他们好像闭耳的聋虺，
Their venom is like the venom of a serpent; They are like the deaf cobra that has shut its ear,
58:5 不听行法术者的声音，也不听灵巧念咒者的声音。
Which does not hear the sound of the charmers Or the wise spellbinder.
58:6 神阿，求你敲碎他们口中的牙；耶和华阿，求你敲掉少壮狮子的大牙。
O God, break their teeth in their mouth; Break off the fangs of the young lions, O Jehovah.
58:7 愿他们消融如水流去。他们射箭的时候，愿箭仿佛被砍断。
Let them melt like water that runs off. When he shoots his arrows, Let them be as though they were cut off.
58:8 愿他们像蜗牛消融逝去，又像妇人坠落未见天日的胎。
Let them be like a snail that melts and goes away, Like a woman's miscarriage, which by no means sees the sun.
58:9 你们用荆棘烧火，锅还不觉热，祂要把青的和烧着的一齐用旋风刮去。
Before your pots can feel the fire of the thorns, Whether green or burning, He will sweep them away.
58:10 义人见仇敌遭报，就欢喜；他要在恶人的血中洗脚。
The righteous man will rejoice when he sees vengeance; He will wash his feet in the blood of the wicked.
58:11 人必说，义人诚然有果子；在地上果有施行审判的神。
And men will say, Indeed there is fruit for the righteous man; Indeed there is a God who judges on earth.
诗篇 Psalms 第 59 篇
59:1 我的神阿，求你救我脱离仇敌，把我安置在高处，脱离那些起来攻击我的人。
Deliver me from my enemies, O my God; Set me on high, secure from those who rise up against me.
59:2 求你救我脱离作孽的人，救我脱离流人血的人。
Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, And save me from men of bloodshed.
59:3 因为看哪，他们埋伏，要害我的命；有能力的人聚集攻击我。耶和华阿，这不是为我的过犯，也不是为我的罪。
For behold, they lie in wait for my soul; The strong gather themselves against me. Not because of any transgression of mine nor because of any sin of mine, O
Jehovah,
59:4 我虽然无过，他们还是跑来，预备好攻击我；求你醒起，前来帮助我，并且察看。
Not for any fault of mine, they run and ready themselves; Awake to meet me, and see.
59:5 万军之神耶和华，以色列的神阿，求你兴起，惩罚万邦；不要怜悯一切诡诈作孽的人。 细拉
Indeed You, O Jehovah, God of hosts, God of Israel, Arise to punish all the nations; Have no mercy upon any who treacherously commit iniquity.
59:6 他们晚上转回，叫号如狗，围城绕行。
They return in the evening; They growl like a dog And go around the city.
59:7 看哪，他们口中喷吐恶言，嘴里有刀；他们说，有谁听见？
Behold, they belch forth with their mouth; Swords are in their lips; For, Who, they say, hears?
59:8 但你耶和华必向他们发笑；你要嗤笑万邦。
But You, O Jehovah, laugh at them; You have all the nations in derision.
59:9 我的力量阿，我必儆醒等候你；因为神是我的高台。
O my strength, I will watch for You; For God is my high retreat.
59:10 我的神要以慈爱迎接我；神要叫我看见那些埋伏等候我的人遭报。
My God in His lovingkindness will meet me; God will let me look triumphantly upon those who lie in wait for me.
59:11 不要杀他们，恐怕我的民忘记；主阿，你是我们的盾牌，求你用你的能力使他们四散，且降为卑。
Do not slay them, lest my people forget; Scatter them by Your power, and bring them down, O Lord our shield.
59:12 因他们口中的罪，和嘴里的言语，并所说咒骂虚谎的话，愿他们在自己的狂傲中被缠住。
For the sin of their mouth, For the word of their lips, Let them even be taken in their arrogance, And because of the cursing and the lying that they speak.
59:13 求你在怒中消灭他们；消灭他们以至于无有；人必知道神在雅各中间掌权，直到地极。 细拉
Consume them in wrath; consume them so that they are no more; And men will know that God rules in Jacob Unto the ends of the earth.
571
59:14 到了晚上，他们转回；他们叫号如狗，围城绕行。
They return in the evening; They growl like a dog And go around the city.
59:15 他们走来走去，寻找食物；若不得饱，就流连在外。
They wander about for food; And if they are not filled, they linger.
59:16 但我要歌唱你的力量；早晨我要欢唱你的慈爱；因为你作过我的高台，在我急难的日子，作过我的避难所。
But I will sing of Your strength; And I will joyfully sing of Your lovingkindness in the morning. For You have been my high retreat And a refuge in the day of my
distress.
59:17 我的力量阿，我要歌颂你，因为神是我的高台，是向我施慈爱的神。
O my strength, unto You I will sing psalms, For God is my high retreat, My God of lovingkindness.
诗篇 Psalms 第 60 篇
60:1 神阿，你丢弃了我们，使我们破败；你向我们发怒。求你使我们复兴。
O God, You have rejected us; You have broken out upon us; You have been angry. Restore us.
60:2 你使地震动，而且崩裂。求你将裂口医好，因为地摇动。
You have caused the earth to quake; You have split it open. Heal the breaks in it, for it totters.
60:3 你叫你的民遇见艰难；你叫我们喝那使人东倒西歪的酒。
You have shown Your people hard things; You have made us drink wine to stagger us.
60:4 你把旌旗赐给敬畏你的人，可以为真理扬起来。 细拉
You have given a banner to those who fear You, To be displayed because of the truth.
60:5 求你用右手拯救我们，应允我们，好叫你所亲爱的人得救。
That Your beloved ones may be delivered, Save with Your right hand, and answer us.
60:6 神已经在祂的圣别中说，我要欢乐；我要分开示剑，丈量疏割谷。
God has spoken in His holiness: I will exult; I will divide Shechem And measure out the Valley of Succoth.
60:7 基列是我的，玛拿西也是我的，以法莲是我的头盔；犹大是我的杖；
Gilead is Mine, and Manasseh is Mine, And Ephraim is the helmet for My head; Judah is My scepter.
60:8 摩押是我的沐浴盆；我要向以东抛鞋；非利士阿，你要因我欢呼。
Moab is My washbowl; Upon Edom I will cast My sandal; Philistia, shout aloud because of Me.
60:9 谁能领我进被围困的城？谁能引我到以东地？
Who will bring me into the besieged city? Who will lead me to Edom?
60:10 神阿，你不是丢弃了我们么？神阿，你不和我们的军兵一同出战么？
Will not You, O God, who rejected us? And will You not go forth, O God, with our armies?
60:11 求你帮助我们脱离敌人，因为人的拯救是枉然的。
Give us help from the adversary, For a salvation by man is vain.
60:12 我们因神才得奋勇行事，践踏我们敌人的就是祂。
In God we will do valiantly, And it is He who will tread down our adversaries.
诗篇 Psalms 第 61 篇
61:1 神阿，求你听我的呼求，垂听我的祷告。
Hear, O God, my cry; Give heed to my prayer.
61:2 我心里发昏的时候，我要从地极呼求你。求你领我到那比我更高的磐石。
From the end of the earth I will call out unto You When my heart faints; Lead me to the rock that is higher than I.
61:3 因为你作了我的避难所，作了我在仇敌面前的坚固台。
For You are a refuge to me, A strong tower before the enemy.
61:4 我要永远住在你的帐幕里；我要投靠在你翅膀下的隐密处。 细拉
Let me sojourn in Your tent forever; Let me take refuge in the covering of Your wings.
61:5 神阿，你已听了我所许的愿；你已将敬畏你名之人的产业赐给了我。
For You, O God, have heard my vows; You have given me the inheritance of those who fear Your name.
61:6 你要加添王的寿数；愿他的年岁代代无穷。
You will add days to the days of the king; May his years be like generation after generation.
61:7 愿他永远住在神面前；愿你分派慈爱和信实保守他。
May he dwell forever before God; Appoint lovingkindness and faithfulness, that they may preserve him.
61:8 这样，我要歌颂你的名，直到永远，好天天还我所许的愿。
So I will sing psalms to Your name forever, As I repay my vows day by day.
诗篇 Psalms 第 62 篇
62:1 我的魂默默无声，专等候神；我的救恩是从祂而来。
My soul waits in silence for God alone; My salvation is from Him.
62:2 惟独祂是我的磐石和我的拯救，是我的高台；我必不很动摇。
He alone is my rock and my salvation, My high retreat; I will not be greatly shaken.
62:3 你们大家攻击一人，把他杀害，如同毁坏歪斜的墙，将倒的壁，要到几时呢？
How long will you assail a man So that you may slay him, all of you, Like a leaning wall or a tottering fence?
572
62:4 他们彼此商议，专要从他的尊位上把他推下；他们喜爱谎话；口虽祝福，心里却咒诅。 细拉
They only make plans to thrust him down from his dignity; They take delight in lies; With their mouth they bless, But inwardly they curse.
62:5 我的魂哪，你当默默无声，专等候神，因为我的盼望是从祂而来。
My soul, wait in silence for God alone, For my expectation is from Him.
62:6 惟独祂是我的磐石和我的拯救，是我的高台，我必不动摇。
He alone is my rock and my salvation, My high retreat; I will not be shaken.
62:7 我的拯救和我的荣耀，都在于神；我力量的磐石，我的避难所，是在神里面。
On God my salvation and my glory depend; The rock of my strength, my refuge, is in God.
62:8 百姓阿，你们当时时信靠祂，在祂面前倾心吐意；神是我们的避难所。 细拉
Trust in Him at all times, O people; Pour out your heart before Him; God is a refuge to us.
62:9 下流人不过是虚空，上流人不过是虚假；放在天平里就必升起；他们一共比空气还轻。
Men of low degree are but a vapor; Men of high degree, a lie. In the balances they go up; Together they are less than a vapor.
62:10 不要靠强暴得财，也不要妄想靠抢夺得利；若财宝加增，不要放在心上。
Do not trust in oppression, And do not vainly hope in robbery; If wealth increases, Do not set your heart on it.
62:11 神说了一次、两次，我都听见，就是能力属于神。
Once has God spoken; Twice have I heard this, That strength belongs to God.
62:12 主阿，慈爱也是属于你，因为你照着各人所行的报应他。
To You also, O Lord, belongs lovingkindness; For You repay every man according to his work.
诗篇 Psalms 第 63 篇
63:1 神阿，你是我的神，我切切的寻求你。在干旱疲乏无水之地，我的魂渴想你，我的身切慕你。
O God, You are my God; I seek You diligently. My soul thirsts for You, My flesh faints in longing for You, In a dry and weary land without water.
63:2 我在圣所中曾如此瞻仰你，为要见你的能力和你的荣耀。
So I have looked upon You in the sanctuary, Seeing Your power and Your glory.
63:3 因你的慈爱比生命更好，我的嘴唇要称颂你。
Because Your lovingkindness is better than life, My lips praise You.
63:4 我还活的时候要这样颂赞你；我要在你的名里举手。
Thus I bless You while I live; I lift up my hands in Your name.
63:5 我在床上记念你，在夜更的时候默想你，我的魂就像饱足了脂膏肥油，我要以欢呼的嘴唇赞美你。
My soul is satisfied as with the rich fatness, And my mouth praises You with lips of joyous shouting,
63:6
When I remember You while on my bed, When I consider You in the night watches.
63:7 因为你曾帮助我，我要在你翅膀的荫下欢呼。
For You have been my help, And in the shadow of Your wings I will shout for joy.
63:8 我魂紧紧的跟随你；你的右手扶持我。
My soul pursues after You; Your right hand upholds me.
63:9 但那些寻索要灭我命的人，必往地的低下之处去；
But those who seek my life to destroy it Will go into the lower parts of the earth;
63:10 他们必交在刀剑的权势下，成为狐狸的食物。
They will be given over to the power of the sword; They will be the portion of foxes.
63:11 但王必因神喜乐；凡指着祂起誓的，必要夸口；因为说谎之人的口，必被塞住。
But the king will rejoice in God; Everyone who swears by Him will boast; For the mouth of those who speak falsehood will be stopped.
诗篇 Psalms 第 64 篇
64:1 神阿，我哀叹的时候，求你听我的声音；求你保守我的性命，不受仇敌的惊恐。
Hear, O God, my voice in my complaint; Preserve my life from the enemy's dread.
64:2 求你把我隐藏，使我脱离作恶之人的密谋，和作孽之人的骚乱；
Hide me from the secret counsel of evildoers, From the throng of the workers of iniquity,
64:3 他们磨舌如刀，发出苦毒的言语，好像比准了的箭，
Who have sharpened their tongue like a sword, Who have aimed their arrow, their bitter word,
64:4 要在暗处射完全人。他们忽然射他，并不惧怕。
To shoot in secret places at the perfect man. They shoot suddenly at him and do not fear.
64:5 他们彼此勉励设计恶事；他们商量暗设网罗，说，谁能看见？
They firm up for themselves an evil matter; They talk of laying snares secretly; They say, Who will see them?
64:6 他们图谋不义，说，我们完成了精密的计谋；他们各人的意念和心思是深的。
They seek out injustices, saying: We have completed a carefully sought-out plan. Indeed each man's inward thought And heart are deep.
64:7 但神要用箭射他们，他们就忽然受伤。
But God will shoot an arrow at them; Suddenly they are wounded.
64:8 他们必被自己的舌头所害而绊跌；凡看见他们的，必都摇头。
They are made to stumble over each other by their own tongue; All who see them shake their heads.
64:9 众人都要害怕，要传扬神的工作，并且思考祂的作为。
And all men will fear And declare what has been done by God, And they will ponder His work.
573
64:10 义人必因耶和华喜乐，并要投靠祂；凡心里正直的人，都要夸口。
The righteous man will rejoice in Jehovah and take refuge in Him, And all the upright in heart will boast.
诗篇 Psalms 第 65 篇
65:1 神阿，在锡安人们等候赞美你；所许的愿，也要向你偿还。
Praise awaits You, O God, in Zion; And to You is the vow paid.
65:2 听祷告的主阿，凡有血肉的，都要来就你。
O You who hear prayer, To You all flesh comes.
65:3 罪孽胜了我；至于我们的过犯，你都要遮盖。
Iniquities prevail against me; As for our transgressions, You make propitiation for them.
65:4 你所拣选，使他亲近你，住在你院中的，这人便为有福。我们必因你居所，你圣殿的美福得满足。
Blessed is he whom You have chosen and bring near To dwell in Your courts. We will be satisfied with the goodness of Your house, Of Your holy temple.
65:5 拯救我们的神阿，你必以可畏的事，按公义应允我们；你本是一切地极、和远处海上的人所倚靠的。
By awesome deeds You answer us in righteousness, O God of our salvation, You who are the trust of all the ends of the earth And of the remotest sea;
65:6 你既以大能束腰，就用力量立定诸山；
Who established the mountains in His strength, Girded with might;
65:7 使诸海的响声，和其中波浪的响声，并众民的喧哗，都平静了。
Who stilled the roaring of the seas, The roaring of their billows, And the tumult of the peoples.
65:8 住在地极的人，因你的神迹惧怕；你使日出日落之地都欢呼。
And they who dwell in the uttermost parts Are afraid of Your signs; You make the exitways of the morning and the evening Shout for joy.
65:9 你眷顾并浇灌地，使地大得肥美：神的河满了水；你这样预备了地，好为人预备五谷。
You visit the earth and water it; You enrich it greatly: The river of God is full of water. You provide men grain, for so You have prepared the earth.
65:10 你浇透地的犁沟，润平犁脊；用甘霖使地松软；其中发芽的，蒙你赐福。
Saturating its furrows, settling its ridges, You soften it with showers; You bless its sprouting forth.
65:11 你以你的恩惠为年岁的冠冕，你的路径都滴下脂油；
You place a crown on a year with Your goodness, And Your wagon tracks drop fatness;
65:12 旷野的草场也满溢，小山以欢乐束腰。
The wilderness pastures overflow, And the hills gird themselves with exultation.
65:13 草场以羊群为衣，山谷盖满了五谷。这一切都欢呼歌唱。
The meadows are clothed with the flock, And the valleys cover themselves in grain; They shout for joy; indeed they sing.
诗篇 Psalms 第 66 篇
66:1 全地都当向神欢呼，
Shout joyfully to God, all the earth;
66:2 歌颂祂名的荣耀，使献给祂的赞美显为荣耀。
Sing forth the glory of His name; Make glorious His praise.
66:3 当对神说，你的作为何等可畏！因你的大能，仇敌要归顺你。
Say to God, How awesome are Your deeds! Because of the greatness of Your strength, Your enemies come cringing to You.
66:4 全地都要敬拜你，歌颂你；他们要歌颂你的名。 细拉
All the earth will worship You And sing psalms to You; They will sing psalms to Your name.
66:5 你们来看神所作的；祂向世人所行之事，是可畏的。
Come and see the works of God; He is awesome in His deeds toward the sons of men.
66:6 祂将海变成干地；众人步行过河。我们在那里因祂喜乐。
He turned the sea into dry land; Through the river they crossed on foot. There we rejoiced in Him.
66:7 祂用权能治理众民，直到永远；祂的眼睛鉴察列邦：悖逆的人不可自高。 细拉
He rules by His might forever; His eyes observe the nations: Let not the rebellious exalt themselves.
66:8 众民哪，你们当颂赞我们的神，使人得听赞美祂的声音；
Bless our God, O peoples; And make the voice of His praise heard,
66:9 祂使我们的性命存活，也不叫我们的脚滑跌。
Who has kept our soul in life And does not allow our feet to slip.
66:10 神阿，你曾试验我们，熬炼我们，如熬炼银子一样。
For You have tried us, O God; You have refined us as silver is refined.
66:11 你使我们进入网罗，把重担放在我们身上。
You have brought us into the net; You have put a heavy burden on our loins.
66:12 你使人坐车轧我们的头；我们经过水火；你却领我们出到丰富之地。
You have made men ride over our heads; We have gone through fire and water; But You have brought us forth into abundance.
66:13 我要凭燔祭进入你的殿；我要向你还我的愿，
I will come into Your house with burnt offerings; I will pay my vows to You,
66:14 就是在急难时我嘴唇所发的，口中所许的。
Which my lips uttered And my mouth spoke when I was in distress.
66:15 我要把肥畜作燔祭，连同公羊的香气献给你；我要把公牛连同山羊献上。 细拉
I will offer to You burnt offerings of fatlings With the smoke of rams; I will offer cattle with goats.
574
66:16 凡敬畏神的人，你们都来听，我要述说祂为我所行的事。
Come, hear, all you who fear God, And I will recount what He has done for my soul.
66:17 我曾用口呼求祂，我的舌头也颂扬祂。
To Him I called out with my mouth, And He was extolled with my tongue.
66:18 我若心里注重罪孽，主必不听。
If I regarded iniquity in my heart, The Lord did not hear.
66:19 但神实在听见了；祂垂听了我祷告的声音。
But indeed God has heard; He has given heed to the voice of my prayer.
66:20 神是当受颂赞的，祂并没有推却我的祷告，也没有叫祂的慈爱离开我。
Blessed be God, Who has not turned my prayer away Nor His lovingkindness from me.
诗篇 Psalms 第 67 篇
67:1 愿神怜悯我们，赐福与我们；愿祂用脸光照我们； 细拉
God be gracious to us and bless us; May He make His face to shine upon us;
67:2 好叫人在地上得知你的道路，在万国中得知你的救恩。
That Your way may be known on earth, And Your salvation among all the nations.
67:3 神阿，愿众民赞美你；愿众民都赞美你。
Let the peoples praise You, O God; Let the peoples praise You, all of them.
67:4 愿列邦喜乐欢呼，因为你必按公正审判众民，引导地上的列邦。 细拉
Let the nations rejoice and shout for joy, For You will judge the peoples equitably And will guide the nations on the earth.
67:5 神阿，愿众民赞美你；愿众民都赞美你。
Let the peoples praise You, O God; Let the peoples praise You, all of them.
67:6 地已经出了土产；神，就是我们的神，要赐福与我们。
The earth has yielded its increase; God, our God, blesses us.
67:7 神要赐福与我们；地的四极都要敬畏祂。
God blesses us; And all the ends of the earth will fear Him.
诗篇 Psalms 第 68 篇
68:1 愿神兴起；愿祂的仇敌四散；愿恨祂的人从祂面前逃跑。
Let God arise; let His enemies be scattered; And let those who hate Him flee before Him.
68:2 你要驱逐他们，使他们如烟被风吹散；恶人要见神的面而灭没，如蜡见火而融化。
As smoke is driven away, You will drive them away; As wax melts before fire, The wicked will perish before God.
68:3 惟有义人必然喜乐；他们必在神面前欢欣，并欢喜快乐。
But the righteous will rejoice; they will exult before God And be glad with rejoicing.
68:4 你们当向神唱诗，歌颂祂的名；要因那坐车行过荒野的人夸胜，祂的名是耶和华；要在祂面前欢乐。
Sing to God; sing psalms to His name; Triumph in Him who rides through the deserts-For Jah is His name-and exult before Him.
68:5 神在祂的圣所作孤儿的父，作寡妇的伸冤者。
A Father to the orphans and a Judge for the widows Is God in His holy habitation.
68:6 神叫孤独的有家可居住，使被囚的出来得亨通；惟有悖逆的住在干燥之地。
God causes the solitary to dwell in a household; He brings the prisoners forth into prosperity; But the rebellious dwell in a parched land.
68:7 神阿，你曾在你百姓前头出来，在荒野行走， 细拉
O God, when You went forth before Your people, When You marched through the desert,
68:8 那时地见神的面就震动，天也落雨；西乃山见了以色列神的面也震动。
The earth trembled, the heavens also dripped, At the presence of God; Sinai there quaked At the presence of God, the God of Israel.
68:9 神阿，你降下沛雨；你产业凋萎的时候，你使它复苏。
You shed forth bountiful rain, O God; You confirmed Your inheritance when it languished.
68:10 你的羊群住在其中；神阿，你凭你的恩惠为困苦人有所预备。
Your living flock dwelt in the land; In Your goodness You provided for the poor, O God.
68:11 主发命令；传好信息的妇女成了大群。
The Lord gives the command; The women who bear the glad tidings are a great host.
68:12 统兵的君王逃跑了，逃跑了！留守在家的妇女，分得了掠物。
The kings of the armies flee. They flee! And she who abides at home Divides the spoil.
68:13 你们虽然躺卧在羊圈之间，却像鸽子的翅膀镀了白银，翎毛镀了绿黄色的金。
Though you lie among the sheepfolds, There are dove wings covered with silver, And its pinions, with greenish yellow gold.
68:14 全能者在境内赶散列王的时候，势如飘雪在撒们。
When the Almighty scattered The kings in the land, It snowed on Zalmon.
68:15 巴珊山是大能的山，巴珊山是多峰多岭的山：
O mighty mountain, O mountain of Bashan, O many-peaked mountain, O mountain of Bashan:
68:16 你们多峰多岭的山哪，为何嫉视神所愿居住的山？耶和华必住这山，直到永远。
Why do you look with envy, O many-peaked mountains, At the mountain on which God desires to dwell? Indeed Jehovah will dwell there forever.
68:17 神的车辇累万盈千；主在其中，好像在西乃，在圣所一样。
The chariots of God are twenty thousand, Thousands upon thousands; The Lord is among them, As at Sinai, in the sanctuary.
575
68:18 你已经升上高处，掳掠了那些被掳的；你在人间，甚至在悖逆的人中间，受了恩赐，叫耶和华神可以住在他们中间。
You have ascended on high; You have led captive those taken captive; You have received gifts among men, Even the rebellious ones also, That Jehovah God may
dwell among them.
68:19 天天加给我们美福的主，就是拯救我们的神，是当受颂赞的。 细拉
Blessed be the Lord, who day by day loads us with good; God is our salvation.
68:20 神是为我们施行拯救的神；人能脱离死亡，是在于主耶和华。
God is to us A God of deliverance, And with Jehovah the Lord Are the goings forth even from death.
68:21 神要打破祂仇敌的头，就是那在自己罪过中往来之人的发顶。
Indeed God will smash The head of His enemies, The hairy crown Of him who goes about in his guiltiness.
68:22 主说，我要使他们从巴珊归来，使他们从深海返回；
The Lord said, I will bring them again from Bashan; I will bring them again from the depths of the sea,
68:23 使你的脚洗在血中，使你狗的舌头，从仇敌得分。
That you may bathe your foot in blood, That the tongue of your dogs may have their portion from the enemies.
68:24 神阿，你是我的神，我的王；人已经看见你行走，在圣所中行走：
They have seen Your goings, O God, The goings of my God, my King, in the sanctuary:
68:25 歌唱的行在前，作乐的随在后，都在击鼓的童女中间。
Singers go before; players after; In the midst of virgins sounding the tambourines.
68:26 你们从以色列源头而来的，当在各会中颂赞耶和华神。
Bless God in the congregations, Even Jehovah, O you who are of the fountain of Israel.
68:27 在那里，有统管他们的小便雅悯，有犹大的首领在他们的群众中，有西布伦的首领，有拿弗他利的首领。
There are little Benjamin, who rules them, And the princes of Judah in their company, The princes of Zebulun, the princes of Naphtali.
68:28 你的能力是你神所命定的；神阿，求你坚固你为我们所成全的事。
Your God has commanded your strength; Strengthen, O God, that which You have done for us.
68:29 因你在耶路撒冷的殿，列王必带贡物献给你。
Because of Your temple at Jerusalem, Kings will bring a gift to You.
68:30 求你叱喝芦苇中的野兽，众民牛犊中成群的公牛，把贪爱银子的踹在脚下；求你把喜好争战的众民赶散。
Rebuke the animals of the reeds, The herd of the bulls among the calves of the peoples, Trampling on those who lust after silver; Scatter the peoples who take
delight in war.
68:31 公侯要从埃及出来朝见神；古实人要急忙向神举手祷告。
Nobles will come out of Egypt; Cush will quickly stretch out its hands to God.
68:32 地上的列国阿，你们要向神歌唱，要向主歌颂， 细拉
O kingdoms of the earth, Sing to God, Sing psalms to the Lord,
68:33 祂是那驾行在自古就有，天上之天以上的主。看哪，祂发出声音，是极大的声音。
To Him who rides upon the ancient heaven of heavens. Behold, He utters His voice, a mighty voice.
68:34 你们要将能力归给神；祂的威荣在以色列之上，祂的能力是在穹苍。
Ascribe strength to God; His excellence is over Israel, And His strength is in the skies.
68:35 神阿，你从圣所显为可畏；以色列的神，是那将力量权能赐给百姓的。神是当受颂赞的！
You are awesome, O God, from Your sanctuaries. The God of Israel, He gives strength and power to the people. Blessed be God!
诗篇 Psalms 第 69 篇
69:1 神阿，求你救我；因为众水威胁我的性命。
Save me, O God; for the waters Threaten my life.
69:2 我陷在深淤泥中，没有立脚之地；我到了深水中，洪水漫过我身。
I sink in deep mire, And there is no place to stand; I have come to the depths of water, And the flood flows over me.
69:3 我因呼求困乏，喉咙发干；我因等候我的神，眼睛失明。
I am weary of my crying; My throat is parched; My eyes fail While I wait for my God.
69:4 无故恨我的，比我头发还多；无理与我为仇，要把我除灭的，极为强盛；我没有抢夺的，竟要我偿还。
More numerous than the hairs of my head Are those who hate me without cause; Mighty are those who would destroy me, Those who are wrongly my enemies.
What I did not steal, I must then restore.
69:5 神阿，我的愚昧你原知道；我的罪愆不能向你隐瞒。
O God, You know my foolishness, And my sins of guilt are not hidden from You.
69:6 万军的主耶和华阿，求你叫那等候你的，不要因我蒙羞；以色列的神阿，求你叫那寻求你的，不要因我受辱。
Do not let those who wait on You be put to shame because of me, O Lord Jehovah of hosts; Do not let those who seek You be humiliated because of me, O God
of Israel.
69:7 因我为你的缘故担受了辱骂，满面羞愧。
Because for Your sake I have borne reproach; Humiliation has covered my face.
69:8 我的兄弟看我是外路人；我母亲的儿子看我是外邦人。
I have become a stranger to my brothers, And a foreigner to my mother's children.
69:9 因我为你的家，心里焦急，如同火烧；并且辱骂你之人的辱骂，都落在我身上。
For the zeal of Your house has devoured me, And the reproaches of those who reproach You have fallen on me.
69:10 我哭泣，以禁食刻苦我魂，这倒成了我的羞辱。
When I wept, when my soul was in fasting, That became a reproach to me.
69:11 我拿麻布当衣裳，就成了他们的笑谈。
When I made sackcloth my clothing, I became a proverb to them.
576
69:12 坐在城门口的谈论我，酒徒也以我为歌曲。
Those who sit in the gate talk about me, And I am the mocking song of those who drink liquor.
69:13 但耶和华阿，我在悦纳的时候，向你祷告；神阿，求你按你丰盛的慈爱，凭你拯救的信实，应允我。
But as for me, my prayer is to You, O Jehovah, in an acceptable time; O God, in the abundance of Your lovingkindness answer me, In the faithfulness of Your
salvation.
69:14 求你救我出离淤泥，不让我沉陷下去；求你救我脱离那些恨我的人，救我出离深水。
Deliver me out of the mire, and let me not sink; May I be delivered from those who hate me, And out of the depths of water.
69:15 求你不让洪水漫过我，不让深渊吞灭我，不让坑坎在我以上合口。
Do not let the flood of water flow over me, Nor let the deep swallow me, Nor let the pit close its mouth over me.
69:16 耶和华阿，求你应允我，因为你的慈爱本为美好；求你按你丰盛的怜恤，回转眷顾我。
Answer me, O Jehovah; for Your lovingkindness is good; According to the abundance of Your compassions turn to me.
69:17 不要向你的仆人掩面，因我是在急难之中；求你速速的应允我。
And do not hide Your face from Your servant, For I am in distress; hurry and answer me.
69:18 求你亲近我，救赎我；求你因我的仇敌把我赎回。
Draw near to my soul; redeem it; Ransom me because of my enemies.
69:19 你知道我受的辱骂、欺凌、羞辱；我的敌人都在你面前。
You know my reproach And my shame and my humiliation; All my adversaries are before You.
69:20 辱骂伤破了我的心，我又忧愁难过；我指望有人体恤，却没有一个；我指望有人安慰，却找不着一个。
Reproach has broken my heart, And I am sick; I looked for pity, but there was none; And for comforters, but I found none.
69:21 他们拿苦胆给我当食物；我渴了，他们拿醋给我喝。
But they gave me gall for my food, And for my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink.
69:22 愿他们的筵席，在他们面前变为网罗，在他们平安的时候，变为陷阱。
May their table become a snare before them And a trap when they are at peace.
69:23 愿他们的眼睛昏蒙，不能看见；愿你使他们的腰常常战抖。
May their eyes be darkened so that they cannot see; And make their loins shake continually.
69:24 求你将你的恼恨，倒在他们身上；愿你的烈怒，追上他们。
Pour out Your indignation upon them; And may the burning fierceness of Your anger overtake them.
69:25 愿他们的营寨，变为荒凉；愿他们的帐棚，无人居住。
May their camp be desolate; May there be no one to dwell in their tents.
69:26 因为他们逼迫你所击打的人，数说你所击伤之人的伤痛。
For they persecute him whom You have stricken, And they recount the pain of those whom You have wounded.
69:27 求你在他们的罪孽上加罪孽，不要让他们进入你的义。
Add iniquity to their iniquity, And do not let them come into Your righteousness.
69:28 愿他们从生命册上被涂抹，不得与义人一同登录。
May they be blotted out of the book of life, And may they not be written with the righteous.
69:29 但我是困苦伤痛的；神阿，愿你的救恩将我安置在高处。
But I am poor and pained; May Your salvation, O God, set me on high.
69:30 我要以诗歌赞美神的名，以感谢尊祂为大；
I will praise the name of God with a song And will magnify Him with thanksgiving;
69:31 这便叫耶和华看为美，胜似献牛，或是献有角有蹄的公牛。
And it will be better to Jehovah than an ox Or a bull with horns and hooves.
69:32 温柔的人看见了，就喜乐。寻求神的人，愿你们的心苏醒。
The meek have seen it; they rejoice. You who seek God, let your heart revive.
69:33 因为耶和华垂听了穷乏人，不藐视属祂被囚的人。
For Jehovah listens to the needy, And He does not despise His prisoners.
69:34 愿天和地，洋海和其中一切的动物，都赞美祂。
Let the heavens and the earth praise Him, The seas and everything that moves in them.
69:35 因为神要拯救锡安，建造犹大的城邑；祂的民要在那里居住，得以为业。
For God will save Zion And build the cities of Judah; And they will abide there and possess it.
69:36 祂仆人的后裔要承受为业，爱祂名的人也要住在其中。
And the seed of His servants will inherit it, And those who love His name will dwell in it.
诗篇 Psalms 第 70 篇
70:1 神阿，求你快快搭救我；耶和华阿，求你快快帮助我。
O God, hasten to deliver me; O Jehovah, hasten to help me.
70:2 愿那些寻索我命的，抱愧蒙羞；愿那些喜悦我遭难的，退后受辱。
May those who seek my life Be put to shame and confounded; May those who take delight in my misfortune Be turned back and humiliated;
70:3 愿那些对我说，阿哈，阿哈的，因羞愧退去。
May those who say, Aha! Aha! Turn away because of their shame;
70:4 愿一切寻求你的，因你欢喜快乐；愿那些爱你救恩的，常说，当尊神为大！
May all those who seek You Be glad and rejoice in You; And may those who love Your salvation Say continually, May God be magnified!
70:5 但我是困苦穷乏的；神阿，求你速速到我这里来。你是帮助我的，搭救我的；耶和华阿，求你不要耽延。
But I am poor and needy; O God, hasten to me. You are my help and my Deliverer; O Jehovah, do not delay.
577
诗篇 Psalms 第 71 篇
71:1 耶和华阿，我投靠你；求你叫我永不羞愧。
In You, O Jehovah, do I take refuge; Never let me be put to shame.
71:2 求你凭你的公义搭救我，救拔我；求你侧耳听我，拯救我。
In Your righteousness deliver me and rescue me; Incline Your ear to me and save me.
71:3 求你作我居住的磐石，使我可以常常进入其中。你已经命定要救我，因为你是我的岩石，我的山寨。
Be to me a rock of habitation for me to come to continually. You have given command to save me, For You are my rock and my fortress.
71:4 我的神阿，求你救我脱离恶人的手，脱离不义和残暴之人的手；
My God, rescue me from the hand of the wicked, From the hand of the unjust and cruel;
71:5 因为主耶和华阿，你是我所盼望的，是我从年幼所倚靠的。
For You are my hope, O Lord Jehovah, My trust from my youth.
71:6 我从母胎中就受你扶持；使我出母腹的是你；我必常常赞美你。
On You I have been sustained since birth; It was You who took from my mother's womb; My praise is continually of You.
71:7 许多人以我为怪，但你是我坚固的避难所。
I am like a wonder to many, But You are my strong refuge.
71:8 我的口必终日满了赞美你、歌颂你荣耀的话。
My mouth is filled with Your praise, With Your glory, all day long.
71:9 我年老的时候，求你不要丢弃我；我力气衰弱的时候，求你不要离弃我。
Do not cast me off in the time of old age; When my strength fails, do not forsake me.
71:10 我的仇敌议论我，那些窥探要害我命的一同商议，
For my enemies speak concerning me, And those who watch for my soul take counsel together,
71:11 说，神已经离弃他；我们追赶他，捉拿他罢，因为没有人搭救他。
Saying, God has forsaken him; Pursue and lay hold of him, for there is no one to deliver him.
71:12 神阿，求你不要远离我；我的神阿，求你速速帮助我。
O God, do not be far away from me; My God, hasten to help me.
71:13 愿那些与我性命为敌的，羞愧灭没；愿那些谋害我的，受辱蒙羞。
May those who are the adversaries to my soul Be put to shame and consumed; May those who seek my misfortune Wrap themselves in reproach and
humiliation.
71:14 我却要常常盼望，并要越发赞美你。
But I will hope continually And will add yet more to all Your praise.
71:15 我的口终日要述说你的公义，和你的救恩，因我不知其数。
My mouth will recount Your righteousness, Your salvation, all day long; For I do not know its full numbers.
71:16 我要来见证主耶和华大能的作为；我要题说你独有的公义。
I will come with the proof of the mighty acts of the Lord Jehovah; I will remind men of Your righteousness, Yours alone.
71:17 神阿，自我年幼时，你就教训我；直到如今，我传扬你奇妙的作为。
O God, You have taught me from my youth; And until now I have declared Your wondrous deeds.
71:18 神阿，即使到我年老发白的时候，求你仍不离弃我，等我将你的能力指示下代，将你的大能指示后世的人。
So even into my old age and greyheadedness, O God, do not forsake me, Until I have declared Your strength Unto the next generation, Your might unto everyone
who is to come.
71:19 神阿，你是行过大事的，你的公义甚高。神阿，谁能像你？
And Your righteousness, O God, is so high, You who have done great things. O God, who is like You?
71:20 你是叫我多经历重大急难的，必使我复活，使我从地的深处再上来。
You who have shown me Many great troubles Will revive me again And bring me up again From the depths of the earth.
71:21 你要使我越发昌大，且转来安慰我。
You will increase my greatness And will turn and comfort me.
71:22 我的神阿，我也要鼓瑟赞美你，赞美你的信实；以色列的圣者阿，我要弹琴歌颂你。
I will also praise You with the harp, I will praise Your faithfulness, my God; I will sing psalms to You with the lyre, O Holy One of Israel.
71:23 我歌颂你的时候，我的嘴唇，和你所救赎我的魂，都必欢呼。
My lips will give a ringing shout When I sing psalms to You, And my soul, which You have redeemed.
71:24 并且我的舌头，要终日讲论你的公义；因为那些谋害我的人，已经蒙羞受辱了。
My tongue also will declare Your righteousness all day long; For they are put to shame, for they are confounded, They who seek my misfortune.
诗篇 Psalms 第 72 篇
72:1 神阿，求你将你的判断赐给王，将你的公义赐给王的儿子。
O God, give Your judgments to the king, And Your righteousness to the son of the king.
72:2 祂要按公义审判你的民，按公平审判你的穷苦人。
He will judge Your people in righteousness, And Your poor with justice.
72:3 大山小山，都要在公义中给民结出平安的果子。
The mountains will bear peace to the people, And the hills, in righteousness.
72:4 祂必为民中的穷苦人伸冤，拯救穷乏之辈，压碎那欺压人的。
He will judge the poor of the people; He will save the children of the needy And crush the oppressor.
72:5 太阳还存，月亮还在，人要敬畏你，直到万代。
They will fear You as long as the sun endures And as long as the moon endures Throughout the generations.
578
72:6 祂必降临，像雨降在已割的草地上，如甘霖浇灌大地。
He will drop like rain upon mown grass, Like abundant showers dripping on the earth.
72:7 在祂的日子义人要发旺，大有平安，直到月亮不存。
In His days the righteous will flourish, And there will be an abundance of peace Until the moon is no more.
72:8 祂要执掌权柄，从这海直到那海，从大河直到地极。
And He will have dominion from sea to sea And from the River unto the ends of the earth.
72:9 住在荒野的，必在祂面前下拜，祂的仇敌必要舔土。
The desert dwellers will bow down before Him, And His enemies will lick the dust.
72:10 他施和海岛并沿海一带的王要进贡；示巴和西巴的王要献礼物。
The kings of Tarshish and of the coastlands Will pay tribute; The kings of Sheba and Seba Will present gifts.
72:11 诸王都要叩拜祂；万国都要事奉祂。
And all the kings will bow down before Him; All the nations will serve Him.
72:12 因为穷乏人呼求的时候，祂要搭救，没有人帮助的穷苦人，祂也要搭救。
For He will deliver the needy man when he cries, And the poor man who has no one to help him.
72:13 祂要怜惜贫寒和穷乏的人，拯救穷乏人的性命。
He will have pity on the weak and needy, And the souls of the needy He will save.
72:14 祂要救赎他们的性命脱离欺压和强暴，他们的血在祂眼中看为宝贵。
From oppression and violence He will redeem their soul, And their blood will be precious in His sight.
72:15 祂要长久活着，示巴的金子要奉给祂；人要常常为祂祷告，终日颂赞祂。
So He shall live and to Him shall be given The gold of Sheba; And prayer shall be made continually for Him; He shall be blessed all the day long.
72:16 在地上，甚至在山顶上，五谷必然茂盛。所结的谷实，要摇曳如利巴嫩的树林；城里的人要发旺如地上的草。
There will be an abundance of grain on the earth, Even at the tops of the mountains. Its fruit will wave like the forests of Lebanon, And those of the city will
blossom like the foliage of the earth.
72:17 祂的名要存到永远，要留传如日之久；人要因祂蒙福；万国要称祂有福。
His name will be forever; As long as the sun endures, His name will spread; And men will be blessed in Him; All the nations will call Him blessed.
72:18 独行奇事的耶和华神，以色列的神，是当受颂赞的；
Blessed be Jehovah God, the God of Israel, Who alone does wondrous deeds;
72:19 祂荣耀的名也当受颂赞，直到永远；愿祂的荣耀充满全地。阿们，阿们。
And blessed be His glorious name forever; And may His glory fill the whole earth. Amen and Amen.
72:20 耶西的儿子大卫的祷告完毕。
The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended.
诗篇 Psalms 第 73 篇
73:1 神实在善待以色列那些清心的人。
Surely God is good to Israel, To those who are pure in heart.
73:2 至于我，我的脚几乎失闪；我的脚步险些滑跌。
But as for me, my feet were nearly turned aside; My steps had almost slipped.
73:3 我见恶人兴旺，就嫉妒狂傲人。
For I was envious of the arrogant, When I saw the prosperity of the wicked.
73:4 他们死的时候没有疼痛，他们的身体也肥壮。
For they have no pangs in their death, And their body is well nourished.
73:5 他们没有别人所受的苦，也不像别人遭灾难。
They do not find themselves in the hardship of men, Nor are they plagued like other men.
73:6 所以，骄傲是他们的项链；强暴像他们遮身的衣裳。
Therefore pride is a necklace for them, Violence covers them like a garment.
73:7 他们的眼睛因体胖而凸出，他们心里的幻想肆意泛滥。
Their eyes bulge out from fatness; The imaginations of their heart overflow.
73:8 他们讥笑人，凭恶意说欺压人的话；他们说话高傲。
They mock and wickedly speak of oppression; They speak loftily.
73:9 他们的口亵渎诸天，他们的舌毁谤全地。
They set their mouth against the heavens, And their tongue walks about on the earth.
73:10 所以祂的民归回这里，充盈的水都被他们喝尽了；
Therefore his people return here, And waters of abundance are drained by them;
73:11 他们说，神怎能晓得？至高者岂有知识么？
And they say, How does God know? And is there knowledge with the Most High?
73:12 看哪，这些就是恶人；他们常享安逸，积聚财宝。
Behold, these are the wicked; And always at ease, they heap up riches.
73:13 我实在徒然洁净了我的心，徒然洗手表明无辜；
Surely I have purified my heart in vain, And I have washed my hands in innocence.
73:14 因为我终日遭灾难，每早晨受惩治。
For I have been plagued all day long And chastened every morning.
73:15 我若说，我要这样讲；看哪，我就是对你这一代的众子不忠了。
If I had said, I will speak thus; Behold, I would have betrayed the generation of Your children.
73:16 我思索要明白这事，眼看实系为难；
579
When I considered this in order to understand it, It was a troublesome task in my sight,
73:17 等我进了神的圣所，我才看清他们的结局。
Until I went into the sanctuary of God; Then I perceived their end.
73:18 你实在把他们安在滑地，使他们掉在荒废之中。
Surely You set them in slippery places; You cast them down into ruins.
73:19 他们转眼之间，成了何等的荒凉！他们被惊恐灭尽了。
How they are made desolate in a moment! They are utterly consumed by terrors.
73:20 人睡醒了怎样看梦，主阿，你醒了，也必照样轻看他们的影像。
Like a dream, when one awakes, You, O Lord, Upon arising, will despise their image.
73:21 当时我心里酸苦，肺腑被刺，
When my heart was embittered, And inwardly I was pricked;
73:22 我是蠢笨无知，在你面前如畜类一般。
I was brutish and knew nothing; I was like a beast before You.
73:23 然而我常与你同在；你紧握着我的右手。
Nevertheless I am continually with You; You have taken hold of my right hand.
73:24 你要以你的劝言引导我，以后必接我到荣耀里。
You will guide me with Your counsel, And afterward You will receive me in glory.
73:25 除你以外，在天上我有谁呢？除你以外，在地上我也没有所爱慕的。
Whom do I have in heaven but You? And besides You there is nothing I desire on earth.
73:26 我的肉体和我的心肠衰残，但神是我心里的磐石，又是我的业分，直到永远。
My flesh and my heart fail, But God is the rock of my heart and my portion forever.
73:27 看哪，远离你的，必要灭亡；凡离弃你行邪淫的，你都灭绝了。
For behold, those who are far from You will perish; You destroy all who go about as harlots away from You.
73:28 但我亲近神是与我有益；我以主耶和华为我的避难所，好叫我述说你一切的作为。
But as for me, drawing near to God is good for me; I have made the Lord Jehovah my refuge, That I may declare all Your works.
诗篇 Psalms 第 74 篇
74:1 神阿，你为何永远丢弃我们呢？你的怒气为何向你草场的羊如烟冒出呢？
Why, O God, have You cast us off forever? Why does Your anger smoke against the sheep of Your pasture?
74:2 求你记念你古时所买来的会众，就是你所赎作你产业支派的，并记念你所居住的锡安山。
Remember Your assembly, which You have purchased of old, Which You have redeemed as the tribe of Your inheritance, And Mount Zion, where You dwell.
74:3 求你举步到那长久荒凉之地；仇敌在圣所中将一切尽行毁灭。
Lift up Your steps unto the perpetual ruins; The enemy has damaged everything in the sanctuary.
74:4 你的敌人在你会所中吼叫；他们竖了自己的旗号为标帜。
Your adversaries have roared in the midst of Your assembly place; They have set up their symbols as signs.
74:5 他们好像人扬起斧子，砍伐林中的树。
It looked like when men bring up axes On the thicket of the trees.
74:6 圣所中一切的雕刻，现在他们都用斧子、锤子打坏了。
And now they have struck down with hatchet and hammer Its carved work altogether.
74:7 他们用火焚烧你的圣所，亵渎你名的住处，拆毁到地。
They have set fire to Your sanctuary; They have defiled the dwelling place of Your name to the ground.
74:8 他们心里说，我们要把这些尽行毁灭；他们就把神在地上的会所都烧毁了。
They said in their heart, Let us oppress them completely. They have burned down all God's assembly places in the land.
74:9 我们不见我们的标帜；不再有申言者；我们内中也没有人知道这灾祸要到几时。
We do not see our signs; there is no longer a prophet, Nor is there anyone among us who knows how long.
74:10 神阿，敌人辱骂要到几时呢？仇敌藐视你的名，要到永远么？
How long, O God, will the adversary reproach? Will the enemy despise Your name forever?
74:11 你为什么缩回你的手，缩回你的右手？求你从怀中伸出来，毁灭他们。
Why do You withdraw Your hand, even Your right hand? Bring it forth from the midst of Your bosom; destroy them .
74:12 但神自古以来为我的王，在全地中施行拯救。
But God is my King of old, Accomplishing salvation in the midst of the earth.
74:13 你曾用能力把海分开，将水上海蛇的头打破。
You divided the sea by Your strength; You broke the heads of the sea serpents on the waters.
74:14 你曾砸碎鳄鱼的头，把它给荒野的禽兽为食物。
You crushed the heads of the leviathan; You gave him as food to the creatures of the desert.
74:15 你曾开出泉源和急流；你使长流的江河干了。
You broke open the fountain and the torrent; You dried up the ever-flowing streams.
74:16 白昼属你，黑夜也属你；月亮和日头是你所预备的。
The day is Yours; the night also is Yours; You prepared the moon and the sun.
74:17 地的一切疆界，是你所立的；夏天和冬天是你所定的。
You established all the borders of the earth: You formed the summer and the winter.
74:18 耶和华阿，仇敌辱骂你，愚顽民藐视你的名，求你记念这事。
Remember this: The enemy has reproached Jehovah, And a foolish people has despised Your name.
74:19 不要将你斑鸠的性命交给野兽；不要永远忘记你穷苦人的生命。
580
Do not give the soul of Your turtledove to the wild beast; Do not forget the life of Your poor forever.
74:20 求你顾念所立的约，因为地上黑暗之处，都满了强暴的居所。
Regard the covenant, For the dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of violence.
74:21 不要叫受欺压的人蒙羞回去。愿困苦穷乏的人赞美你的名。
Do not let him who is oppressed return ashamed. May the poor and needy praise Your name.
74:22 神阿，求你起来，为自己伸诉；要记念愚顽人怎样终日辱骂你。
Arise, O God; contend for Your own cause; Remember how the foolish man reproaches You all day long.
74:23 不要忘记你敌人的声音；那起来敌你之人的喧哗时常上升。
Do not forget the voice of Your adversaries; The roar of those who rise up against You goes up continually.
诗篇 Psalms 第 75 篇
75:1 神阿，我们称谢你，我们称谢你，因为你的名相近，人都述说你奇妙的作为。
We give thanks to You, O God; we give thanks, For Your name is near; men tell of Your wondrous deeds.
75:2 你说，我选定日期，必按公正施行审判。
When I choose the appointed time, It is I who judge with equity.
75:3 地和其上一切的居民，都融化了；我曾立了地的柱子。 细拉
The earth and all who dwell in it melt; I have established its pillars.
75:4 我对狂傲人说，不要狂傲；对凶恶人说，不要举角；
I said to the boastful, Do not boast; And to the wicked, Do not lift up the horn.
75:5 不要把你们的角高举；不要挺着颈项说狂妄话。
Do not lift your horn on high; Do not speak arrogantly with a haughty neck.
75:6 因为高举非从东，非从西，也非从南而来。
For neither from the east nor from the west, And neither from the south, does exaltation come;
75:7 惟有神断定：祂使这人降卑，使那人升高。
For God is the Judge: He puts this one down and exalts that one.
75:8 耶和华手里有杯，其中的酒起沫；杯内满了搀杂之物，祂倒出来；地上的恶人必都喝这酒的渣滓，而且喝尽。
For there is a cup in the hand of Jehovah, And the wine foams; it is full of mixture, And He pours from it; indeed its dregs will all the wicked of the earth Drain off
and drink up.
75:9 至于我，我要宣扬直到永远；我要歌颂雅各的神。
But as for me, I will declare forever, I will sing psalms to the God of Jacob.
75:10 恶人一切的角，我要砍断；惟有义人的角，必被高举。
And all the horns of the wicked will I cut off, But the horns of the righteous man will be exalted.
诗篇 Psalms 第 76 篇
76:1 在犹大神为人所认识；在以色列祂的名为大。
God is known in Judah; His name is great in Israel.
76:2 在撒冷有祂的帐幕；在锡安有祂的居所。
And in Salem is His tabernacle, And His dwelling place, in Zion.
76:3 祂在那里折断弓上的火箭，并盾牌、刀剑、和争战的兵器。 细拉
There He broke the flashing arrows of the bow, The shield and the sword and the battle.
76:4 你比富有猎物的山，更有光华和荣美。
More glorious are You, More excellent than the mountains of prey.
76:5 心中勇敢的人，都被掠夺；他们睡了长觉，没有一个勇士能措手。
The stouthearted are despoiled; They slept their sleep, And none of the men of strength Have found their hands.
76:6 雅各的神阿，你的斥责一发，坐车的和骑马的都沉睡了。
At Your rebuke, O God of Jacob, Both chariot and horse fall into deep sleep.
76:7 惟独你是可畏的；你的怒气一发，谁能在你面前站得住呢？
You, indeed You, are to be feared; And who may stand before You once You are angry?
76:8 你从天上使人听见判断；地惧怕而静默，
You caused judgment to be heard from the heavens; The earth feared and was still,
76:9 那时神起来施行审判，要救地上一切卑微的人。 细拉
When God rose for judgment, To save all the meek of the earth.
76:10 人的忿怒，要使你得称赞；你要以你的余怒束腰。
For the wrath of man will praise You; You will gird Yourself with the remainder of wrath.
76:11 你们要许愿，并向耶和华你们的神还愿；在祂四围的人，都当拿贡物献给那可畏的主。
Make vows and pay them to Jehovah your God; Let all who are around Him bring gifts to Him who is to be feared.
76:12 祂要挫折众领袖的骄气；祂向地上的君王，显为可畏。
He will cut off the spirit of the princes; He is terrible to the kings of the earth.
诗篇 Psalms 第 77 篇
77:1 我要向神发声呼求；我向神发声，祂必侧耳听我。
581
My voice calls out to God, and I will cry out; My voice calls out to God, and He will give ear to me.
77:2 我在急难之日寻求主；我在夜间伸手祷告，总不懈怠。我的魂不肯受安慰。
In the day of my distress I sought the Lord; My hand was stretched out in the night, and it did not drop. My soul refused to be comforted.
77:3 我想念神，就悲叹不安；我哀怨不平，灵便发昏。 细拉
I remember God, and I moan; I complain, and my spirit faints.
77:4 你叫我不能闭眼；我烦乱不安，不能说话。
You hold open my eyelids; I am disturbed and cannot speak.
77:5 我追想古时之日，上古之年；
I consider the days of old, The years of ancient times;
77:6 我想起我夜间的歌曲；我的心沉思默想，我的灵也仔细省察。
I remember my song in the night; I muse with my own heart, and my spirit carefully searches.
77:7 难道主要永远丢弃我们，不再喜悦我们么？
Will the Lord cast us off forever, And will He never be favorable to us again?
77:8 难道祂的慈爱永远止息，祂的应许世世断绝么？
Has His lovingkindness ceased forever? Has the promise come to an end for all generations?
77:9 难道神忘记开恩，因发怒就止住祂的怜恤么？ 细拉
Has God forgotten to be gracious? Or has He in anger shut up His compassions?
77:10 我便说，这是我的懦弱；但我要追念至高者右手所赐的年代。
Then I said, This is my infirmity; These are the years given me from the right hand of the Most High.
77:11 我要回想耶和华所行的，因我要记念你古时的奇事。
I will bring to remembrance the deeds of Jehovah, For I will remember Your wonders from of old.
77:12 我也要默想你一切所行的，默念你的作为。
And I will meditate on all that You have done And muse on Your doings.
77:13 神阿，你的道路是在圣所中；有何神明大如神呢？
O God, Your way is in the sanctuary; Who is so great a god as God?
77:14 你是行奇事的神；你曾在众民中，使人得知你的能力。
You are the God who does wonders; You have made known Your strength among the peoples.
77:15 你曾用你的膀臂赎了你的民，就是雅各和约瑟的子孙。 细拉
You redeemed Your people with Your arm, The sons of Jacob and Joseph.
77:16 神阿，诸水见你；诸水一见，就都惊惶；深渊也都战抖。
The waters saw You, O God; The waters saw You; they were afraid; Indeed the depths trembled.
77:17 云中倒出水来；天空发出响声；你的箭也闪射四方。
The clouds poured forth water; The skies sent forth a sound; Indeed Your arrows went here and there.
77:18 你的雷声在旋风中；闪电照亮世界；大地战抖震动。
The sound of Your thunder was in the whirlwind; Lightning illuminated the world; The earth trembled and quaked.
77:19 你的道路在海中，你的路径在大水中；你的脚踪无人知道。
Your way was in the sea, And Your paths in the great waters; And Your footsteps were not known.
77:20 你曾藉摩西和亚伦的手，引导你的百姓，好像羊群一般。
You led Your people like a flock By the hand of Moses and Aaron.
诗篇 Psalms 第 78 篇
78:1 我的民哪，你们要留心听我的教训，侧耳听我口中的话。
Give ear, O my people, to my instruction; Incline your ears to the words of my mouth.
78:2 我要开口说比喻；我要说出古时的谜语，
I will open my mouth in a parable; I will utter riddles from of old,
78:3 是我们所听见所知道的，也是我们的祖宗向我们所述说的。
Which we have heard and known, And our fathers have related to us.
78:4 我们不将这些事向他们的子孙隐瞒，要将耶和华当得的赞美，和祂的能力，并祂所作的奇事，述说给后代听。
We will not hide them from their children, But will relate to the generation to come The praises of Jehovah and His strength And His wondrous deeds that He has
done.
78:5 因为祂在雅各中立了见证，在以色列中设了律法，是祂吩咐我们祖宗，要他们给子孙知道的；
Indeed He has established a testimony in Jacob And appointed a law in Israel, Which He commanded our fathers That they should make them known to their
children;
78:6 使将要生的后代子孙，可以晓得；他们也要起来向他们的子孙述说；
That the generation to come, The children to be born, may know them, Who should arise and relate them to their children;
78:7 好叫他们寄望于神，不忘记神的作为，惟要遵守祂的命令；
That they might set their hope in God, And not forget the deeds of God, But observe His commandments;
78:8 不至像他们的祖宗，是顽梗悖逆、居心不正之辈，他们的灵向着神不忠信。
That they might not be like their fathers, A stubborn and rebellious generation, A generation that did not set their heart right, And whose spirit was not faithful to
God.
78:9 以法莲的子孙，带着兵器，拿着弓箭，临阵之日却转身退后。
The children of Ephraim, armed archers with bows, Turned back in the day of battle.
78:10 他们不遵守神的约，不肯遵行祂的律法；
They did not keep the covenant of God, And they refused to walk in His law.
582
78:11 又忘记祂所行的，和祂向他们所显奇妙的作为。
And they forgot His doings And His wondrous deeds that He had shown them.
78:12 祂在埃及地，在琐安田，在他们祖宗的眼前，施行奇事。
He did something wonderful in the sight of their fathers In the land of Egypt, in the field of Zoan.
78:13 祂将海分开，使他们过去，又叫水立起如垒。
He divided the sea and caused them to pass through, And He made the water stand as a heap.
78:14 祂白日用云彩，终夜用火光，引导他们。
And He led them with the cloud by day And all the night with a light of fire.
78:15 祂在旷野裂开磐石，多多的给他们水喝，如从深渊而出。
He split rocks in the wilderness And gave them abundant drink, as from the depths.
78:16 祂使水从磐石涌出，叫水如江河流下。
He also brought forth streams from the rock And made water run down like rivers.
78:17 他们却仍旧得罪祂，在干旱之地悖逆至高者。
Yet they still continued to sin against Him, To rebel against the Most High in the desert.
78:18 他们心中试探神，随自己所欲的求食物；
And they put God to the test in their heart, By asking for food according to their desire.
78:19 并且出言顶撞神，说，神岂能在旷野摆设筵席么？
They also spoke against God; They said, Can God prepare a table in the wilderness?
78:20 看哪，祂曾击打磐石，使水涌出，如同江河泛滥；祂还能赐粮食么？还能为祂的百姓预备肉么？
Behold, He struck the rock, And water gushed out, And streams overflowed; Can He also give us bread, Or provide meat for His people?
78:21 所以耶和华听见，就发怒。有火向雅各烧起，有怒气向以色列上腾；
Therefore Jehovah heard and was angry. And a fire was kindled against Jacob, And also anger went up against Israel;
78:22 因为他们不相信神，不倚靠祂的救恩。
Because they did not believe in God, And they did not trust in His salvation.
78:23 祂却吩咐在上的穹苍，又敞开天上的门，
Yet He commanded the skies above And opened the doors of heaven;
78:24 降吗哪像雨给他们吃，将天上的粮食赐给他们。
And He rained down upon them manna to eat And gave them the food of heaven.
78:25 人吃大能者的食物；祂差下粮食，使他们饱足。
Man ate the bread of the mighty; He sent them full provision.
78:26 祂使东风在天空刮起，又用能力引来南风。
He made the east wind blow in the heavens And guided the south wind by His strength.
78:27 祂降肉像雨给他们，多如尘土，又降飞鸟，多如海沙，
And He rained upon them meat like dust, And winged birds like the sand of the seas.
78:28 落在他们的营中，在他们住处的四围。
And He made it fall in the midst of their camp, Around their habitations.
78:29 他们吃了，而且极其饱足；这样，祂就随了他们所欲的。
So they ate and were well filled; Indeed what they desired He brought to them.
78:30 他们贪而无厌，食物还在口中的时候，
They were not estranged from what they desired; Their food was still in their mouths
78:31 神的怒气就向他们上腾，杀了他们内中的肥壮人，打倒以色列的少年人。
When the anger of God went up against them And slew some of their fattest ones And struck down the choice men of Israel.
78:32 虽经这一切，他们仍旧犯罪，不相信祂奇妙的作为。
In spite of all this they still sinned And did not believe in His wondrous deeds.
78:33 因此祂使他们的日子在虚空中耗尽，使他们的年岁在惊恐中度完。
Therefore He consumed their days with vanity, And their years with terror.
78:34 祂杀他们的时候，他们才求问祂，回转过来，切切的寻求神。
When He slew them, they inquired after Him, And they returned and diligently sought God.
78:35 他们也追念神是他们的磐石，至高的神是他们的救赎主。
And they remembered that God was their rock, And the Most High God, their Redeemer.
78:36 他们却用口谄媚祂，用舌向祂说谎。
But they flattered Him with their mouth And lied to Him with their tongue.
78:37 因他们的心向祂不坚定，在祂的约上也不忠信。
For their heart was not steadfast toward Him, Nor were they faithful to His covenant.
78:38 但祂有怜悯，遮盖他们的罪孽，不灭绝他们；而且屡次使自己的怒气转消，不发尽祂的忿怒。
But He, being merciful, forgave their iniquity And did not destroy them; Indeed He turned back His anger many times And did not stir up all His wrath.
78:39 祂想到他们不过是肉体，是一阵去而不返的风。
And He remembered that they were flesh, A wind that goes away and does not return.
78:40 他们在旷野悖逆祂，在荒地叫祂担忧，何其多呢！
How often they rebelled against Him in the wilderness And grieved Him in the desert!
78:41 他们再三试探神，惹动以色列的圣者。
And they repeatedly put God to the test And provoked the Holy One of Israel.
78:42 他们不追念祂的能力，和赎他们脱离敌人的日子；
They did not remember His hand, The day when He ransomed them from the adversary;
78:43 那时祂在埃及显神迹，在琐安田显奇事，
When He set His signs in Egypt And His wonders in the field of Zoan;
583
78:44 把他们的江河与溪流都变为血，使他们不能喝。
And He turned their rivers into blood, As well as their streams, so that they could not drink.
78:45 祂打发苍蝇成群，落在他们中间，嘬尽他们；又打发青蛙毁坏他们；
He sent among them a swarm offlies, which devoured them; And frogs, which destroyed them.
78:46 祂把他们地里的出产交给毁蝗，把他们劳碌得来的交给群蝗。
And He gave their increase to the consuming locust, And their labor to the swarming locust.
78:47 祂用冰雹打坏他们的葡萄树，用严霜打坏他们的桑树；
And He killed their vines with hail, And their sycamores with ice stones.
78:48 又把他们的牲畜交给冰雹，把他们的群畜交给闪电。
He gave over their cattle also to the hail And their herds to the lightning bolts.
78:49 祂打发猛烈的怒气、盛怒、恼恨和苦难，成了一群降灾祸的使者，进入他们中间。
He sent among them the burning fierceness of His anger, Overflowing wrath and indignation and trouble, A mission of angels of evils.
78:50 祂为自己的怒气修平了路，不使他们的魂免于死亡，乃将他们的生命交给瘟疫。
He leveled a path for His anger; He did not spare their soul from death, But gave their life over to the pestilence.
78:51 祂在埃及击杀一切头生的，在含的帐棚中，击杀他们力量强壮时头生的。
And He struck all the firstborn in Egypt, The first of their vigor in the tents of Ham.
78:52 祂却领出自己的民如羊，在旷野引他们如羊群。
But He set forth His people like sheep And led them like a flock in the wilderness.
78:53 祂领他们稳稳妥妥的，使他们不至害怕；海却淹没他们的仇敌。
And He led them to safety, so that they did not fear; But the sea covered their enemies.
78:54 祂带他们到自己圣地的境界，到祂右手所得的这山。
And He brought them forth to His holy border, The mountain, which His right hand had acquired.
78:55 祂在他们面前赶出外邦人，用绳子将外邦的地量给他们，拈阄分给他们为业，叫以色列支派的人在那里住在他们的帐棚里。
And He drove out the nations before them And allotted them as an inheritance by line, And He made the tribes of Israel dwell there in their tents.
78:56 他们仍旧试探、悖逆至高的神，不持守祂的见证；
Yet they put Him to the test and rebelled against God the Most High, And did not keep His testimonies.
78:57 反倒退后，行诡诈，像他们的祖宗一样；他们翻转，如同诡诈的弓。
And they turned back and dealt treacherously, as their fathers had done; They turned aside like a deceitfulbow.
78:58 他们用邱坛惹了祂的怒气，用雕制的偶像触动祂的妒忌。
Indeed they provoked Him to anger with their high places And made Him jealous with their graven images.
78:59 神听见就发怒，极其厌恶以色列人。
God heard, and He was angered; And He greatly abhorred Israel.
78:60 于是祂离弃示罗的帐幕，就是祂在人间所搭的帐棚；
Thus He forsook the tabernacle in Shiloh, The tent in which He dwelt among men;
78:61 又将祂的约柜交与人掳去，将祂的荣美交在敌人手中。
And He gave over His ark into captivity, And His glory into the hand of the adversary.
78:62 并将祂的百姓交与刀剑，向祂的产业发怒。
He also delivered His people to the sword And was angry with His inheritance.
78:63 他们的少年人被火烧灭，他们的处女也无喜歌。
Fire devoured their young men, And their virgins had no marriage song.
78:64 他们的祭司倒在刀下，他们的寡妇却不哀哭。
Their priests fell by the sword, And their widows did not lament.
78:65 那时主如同睡醒，像勇士因饮酒呼喊。
Then the Lord awoke as if from sleep, Like a mighty man who shouts because of wine.
78:66 祂打退了祂的敌人，叫他们永蒙羞辱。
And He struck His adversaries and sent them back; He put an everlasting reproach upon them.
78:67 并且祂弃掉约瑟的帐棚，不拣选以法莲支派，
And He rejected the tent of Joseph, And the tribe of Ephraim He did not choose.
78:68 却拣选犹大支派，祂所爱的锡安山。
Rather He chose the tribe of Judah, Mount Zion, which He loved.
78:69 祂盖造祂的圣所，好像高峰，又像祂所建立永存之地。
And He built His sanctuary like the heights, Like the earth that He has founded forever.
78:70 又拣选祂的仆人大卫，从羊圈中选取了他；
Moreover He chose David His servant And took him from the sheepfolds;
78:71 叫他不再跟从那些带奶的母羊，为要牧养自己的百姓雅各，和自己的产业以色列。
From following after the ewes He brought him To shepherd Jacob His people And Israel His inheritance.
78:72 于是，他按心中的纯全牧养他们，用手中的巧妙引导他们。
And he shepherded them according to the integrity of his heart, And guided them by the skillfulness of his hands.
诗篇 Psalms 第 79 篇
79:1 神阿，外邦人进入你的产业，污秽你的圣殿，使耶路撒冷变成了荒堆。
O God, the nations have come into Your inheritance; They have defiled Your holy temple; They have turned Jerusalem into heaps.
79:2 他们把你仆人的尸首，交与天空的飞鸟为食，把你圣民的肉，交与地上的野兽；
They have given the dead bodies of Your servants As food for the birds of heaven, The flesh of Your saints to the animals of the earth.
584
79:3 在耶路撒冷周围流他们的血如水，无人葬埋。
They have poured out their blood like water around Jerusalem, And there was no one to bury them.
79:4 我们成为邻国所羞辱的，成为我们四围人所嗤笑讥刺的。
We have become a reproach to our neighbors, A mocking and a derision to those around us.
79:5 耶和华阿，这要到几时呢？你要动怒到永远么？你的妒忌要如火焚烧么？
How long, O Jehovah? Will You be angry forever? Will Your jealousy burn like fire?
79:6 愿你将你的忿怒倒在那不认识你的外邦，和那不呼求你名的国度。
Pour out Your wrath upon the nations Who do not know You, And upon the kingdoms Who do not call upon Your name.
79:7 因为他们侵吞了雅各，使他的住处变为荒凉。
For they have devoured Jacob And have desolated his habitation.
79:8 求你不要记念我们先祖的罪孽，向我们追讨；愿你的怜恤快快迎着我们，因为我们落到极卑微的地步。
Do not remember against us the iniquities of our forefathers; May Your compassions quickly meet us, For we have been brought very low.
79:9 拯救我们的神阿，求你因你名的荣耀，帮助我们；为你名的缘故，搭救我们，遮盖我们的罪。
Help us, O God of our salvation, For the glory of Your name; And deliver us and expiate our sins, For Your name's sake.
79:10 为何容外邦人说，他们的神在那里呢？愿你使我们亲眼看见，外邦人得知你伸了你仆人流血的冤。
Why should the nations say, Where is their God? May the avenging of the blood of Your servants, which has been poured out, Be known among the nations in
our sight.
79:11 愿被囚之人的叹息，达到你面前。愿你按你的大能力，使那些命定要死的人得以存活。
May the sighing of the prisoner come before You. According to the greatness of Your power preserve those appointed to die,
79:12 主阿，愿你将我们邻国所羞辱你的羞辱，七倍归还到他们怀中。
And render to our neighbors sevenfold into their bosom Their reproach, with which they have reproached You, O Lord.
79:13 我们，就是你的民并你草场的羊，要称谢你，直到永远；我们要述说赞美你的话，直到万代。
And we, Your people and the sheep of Your pasture, Will give You thanks forever; From generation to generation we will tell out Your praise.
诗篇 Psalms 第 80 篇
80:1 领约瑟如领羊群之以色列的牧者阿，求你侧耳听；坐在二基路伯之间的阿，求你发出光来。
O Shepherd of Israel, give ear, You who lead Joseph like a flock; You who sit between the cherubim, shine forth.
80:2 求你在以法莲、便雅悯、玛拿西前面施展你的大能，来救我们。
Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh Stir up Your might, And come to save us.
80:3 神阿，求你恢复我们，使你的脸发光，我们便要得救。
O God, restore us; And cause Your face to shine, and we will be saved.
80:4 耶和华万军之神阿，你向你百姓的祷告发怒，要到几时呢？
O Jehovah God of hosts, How long will You fume Against the prayer of Your people?
80:5 你以眼泪当食物给他们吃，又多量出眼泪给他们喝。
You have fed them with the bread of tears And have made them drink tears in large measure.
80:6 你使邻国因我们纷争；我们的仇敌在他们中间戏笑我们。
You have made us a cause of strife to our neighbors, And our enemies deride us among themselves.
80:7 万军之神阿，求你恢复我们，使你的脸发光，我们便要得救。
O God of hosts, restore us; And cause Your face to shine, and we will be saved.
80:8 你从埃及挪出一棵葡萄树，赶出外邦人，把这树栽上。
You brought a vine out of Egypt; You drove out nations and planted it;
80:9 你在这树前预备了地方，它就深深扎根，爬满了地。
You cleared the ground before it, And it took deep root and filled the land.
80:10 它的影子遮满了山，枝子好像神的香柏树。
The mountains were covered with its shadow, And its boughs were like the cedars of God.
80:11 它发出枝子，直到大海，发出嫩枝，直到大河。
It put forth its branches unto the sea, And its shoots unto the River.
80:12 你为何拆毁这树的篱笆，任凭一切过路的人摘取？
Why have You broken down its hedges, So that all who pass by on the way pluck it?
80:13 林中出来的野猪把它蹧蹋，野地的走兽拿它当食物。
The boar from the forest ravages it, And that which moves through the field feeds on it.
80:14 万军之神阿，求你回转，从天上垂看鉴察，眷顾这葡萄树，
O God of hosts, turn, we beseech You; Look down from heaven and see, And visit this vine,
80:15 就是你右手所栽的枝干，和你为自己所坚固的枝子。
Even the stock which Your right hand has planted And the son whom You have strengthened for Yourself.
80:16 这树已经被火焚烧，被刀砍伐；他们因你脸上所显的斥责灭亡了。
It is burned with fire; it is cut down; They perish at the rebuke of Your countenance.
80:17 愿你的手护庇你右边的人，就是你为自己所坚固的人子。
Let Your hand be upon the man of Your right hand, Upon the son of man whom You have strengthened for Yourself;
80:18 这样，我们便不退后离开你；求你救活我们，我们就要呼求你的名。
Then we will not turn back from You. Revive us, and we will call upon Your name.
80:19 耶和华万军之神阿，求你恢复我们，使你的脸发光，我们便要得救。
O Jehovah God of hosts, restore us; Cause Your face to shine, and we will be saved.
585
诗篇 Psalms 第 81 篇
81:1 你们当向神我们的力量欢唱，向雅各的神欢呼。
Sing for joy to God our strength; Make a joyful noise to the God of Jacob.
81:2 要唱起诗歌，击手鼓，弹奏美妙的琴瑟。
Lift up a song and sound the tambourine, The pleasant lyre with the harp.
81:3 当在月朔，在月望，在我们过节的日期吹角。
Blow the trumpet at the new moon, At the full moon, on our feast day.
81:4 因这是以色列的律例，是雅各之神的典章。
For that is a statute of Israel, An ordinance of the God of Jacob.
81:5 祂出去攻击埃及地的时候，在约瑟中间立此为证。我听见我所不明白的言语，说，
He appointed it as a testimony in Joseph When He went out over the land of Egypt. I heard a language that I did not know:
81:6 我使你的肩得脱重担，你的手放下筐子。
I turned your shoulder from the burden; Your hands were freed from the basket.
81:7 你在患难中呼求，我就搭救你；我在雷的隐密处应允你；我在米利巴水那里试验你。 细拉
You called in trouble, and I delivered you; I answered you from the secret place of thunder; I proved you at the waters of Meribah.
81:8 我的民哪，你当听，我要警戒你：以色列阿，甚愿你肯听从我！
Hear, O My people, and I will testify against you: O Israel, if you would listen to Me!
81:9 在你当中不可有别的神；外邦的神，你也不可下拜。
There shall be no strange god among you, Neither shall you worship any foreign god.
81:10 我是耶和华你的神，是把你从埃及地领上来的；你要大大张口，我就给你充满。
I am Jehovah your God, Who brought you up out of the land of Egypt; Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it.
81:11 无奈我的民不听我的声音，以色列不肯服从我。
But My people did not listen to My voice, And Israel would not consent to Me.
81:12 我便任凭他们心里顽梗，随自己的计谋而行。
So I gave them over to the stubbornness of their heart: They walked after their own counsels.
81:13 甚愿我的民肯听从我，以色列肯遵行我的道路！
Oh that My people had listened to Me, That Israel had walked in My ways!
81:14 我便速速制伏他们的仇敌，反手攻击他们的敌人。
I would have soon subdued their enemies And turned My hand against their adversaries.
81:15 恨耶和华的人必来归顺，祂百姓的时日必延到永远。
Those who hate Jehovah would have come cringing to Him, And their time would be forever.
81:16 祂也必拿上好的麦子给他们吃；我必拿磐石所出的蜂蜜，叫你们饱足。
And He would have fed them with the finest of wheat; Indeed with honey from the rock I would have satisfied you.
诗篇 Psalms 第 82 篇
82:1 神站在神的会中；在诸神中行审判，
God stands in the congregation of God; He judges in the midst of the gods.
82:2 说，你们审判不秉公义，徇恶人的情面，要到几时呢？ 细拉
How long will you judge unjustly And respect the persons of the wicked?
82:3 你们当为贫寒的人和孤儿伸冤，为困苦和贫穷的人施行公理；
Judge the poor and the orphan; Execute justice for the afflicted and the destitute;
82:4 当救护贫寒和穷乏的人，搭救他们脱离恶人的手。
Rescue the poor and the needy; Deliver them from the hand of the wicked.
82:5 你们仍不知道，也不明白，在黑暗中走来走去；地的根基都摇动了。
You do not know, nor do you understand; You go about in darkness; All the foundations of the earth are shaken.
82:6 我曾说，你们是神，都是至高者的儿子。
I said, You are gods, And all of you are sons of the Most High.
82:7 然而，你们要死，与众人一样；要仆倒，像首领中的一位。
Nevertheless you will die like men And fall like one of the princes.
82:8 神阿，求你起来，审判这地；因为你要得万邦为业。
Arise, O God; judge the earth; For You will inherit all the nations.
诗篇 Psalms 第 83 篇
83:1 神阿，求你不要静默；神阿，求你不要闭口，也不要不作声；
O God, do not keep silent; Do not be quiet, and do not be still, O God.
83:2 因为看哪，你的仇敌喧嚷；恨你的抬起头来。
For, behold, Your enemies are in tumult, And those who hate You lift up their heads.
83:3 他们同谋奸诈要害你的百姓，彼此商议要害你所隐藏的人。
They devise crafty counsel against Your people, And conspire against Your hidden ones.
83:4 他们说，来罢，我们将他们除灭，使他们不再成国，使以色列的名不再被人记念。
They have said, Come and let us destroy them from being a nation, That the name of Israel may no longer be remembered.
586
83:5 他们同心商议，彼此结盟，要抵挡你；
For they have conspired together with one heart; It is against You that they have made an alliance:
83:6 就是以东帐棚的人和以实玛利人，摩押人和夏甲人，
The tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites, Moab and the Hagarites,
83:7 迦巴勒、亚扪和亚玛力，非利士同推罗的居民；
Gebal and Ammon and Amalek, Philistia along with the inhabitants of Tyre;
83:8 亚述也与他们联合；他们作了罗得子孙的帮手。 细拉
Assyria is also joined with them; They have been a help to the children of Lot.
83:9 求你待他们如待米甸，如在基顺河待西西拉和耶宾一样：
Do with them as with Midian, As with Sisera and Jabin, at the brook Kishon:
83:10 他们在隐多珥灭亡，成了地上的粪土。
They were destroyed at Endor; They became dung for the earth.
83:11 求你叫他们的贵胄像俄立和西伊伯，叫他们的首领都像西巴和撒慕拿；
Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb, And all their princes like Zebah and Zalmunna,
83:12 这些人曾说，我们要得神的住处，作为自己的产业。
Who said, Let us possess for ourselves The habitations of God.
83:13 我的神阿，求你叫他们像随风滚转的草，像风前的碎秸。
O my God, make them like a tumbleweed, Like stubble before the wind.
83:14 火怎样焚烧树林，火焰怎样烧着山岭，
Like fire that burns a forest And like a flame that sets mountains on fire,
83:15 求你也照样用你的狂风追赶他们，用你的暴雨恐吓他们。
So pursue them with Your tempest, And terrify them with Your storm.
83:16 耶和华阿，愿你使他们满面羞愧，好叫他们寻求你的名。
Fill their faces with shame, That they may seek Your name, O Jehovah.
83:17 愿他们永远羞愧惊惶，愿他们抱愧灭亡；
May they be ashamed and dismayed forever, And may they be confounded and perish;
83:18 使他们知道惟独你名为耶和华的，是管理全地的至高者。
That they may know that You alone, whose name is Jehovah, Are the Most High over all the earth.
诗篇 Psalms 第 84 篇
84:1 万军之耶和华阿，你的居所何等可爱！
How lovely are Your tabernacles, O Jehovah of hosts!
84:2 我的魂羡慕，甚至渴想耶和华的院宇；我的心肠，我的肉体，向活神呼吁。
My soul longs, indeed even faints, For the courts of Jehovah; My heart and my flesh cry out To the living God.
84:3 万军之耶和华，我的王我的神阿，在你的两座坛那里，连麻雀也找着房屋；燕子也为自己找着菢雏之窝。
At Your two altars even the sparrow has found a home; And the swallow, a nest for herself, Where she may lay her young, O Jehovah of hosts, my King and my
God.
84:4 住在你殿中的，便为有福；他们仍要赞美你。 细拉
Blessed are those who dwell in Your house; They will yet be praising You.
84:5 因你有力量，心中想往锡安大道的，这人便为有福。
Blessed is the man whose strength is in You, In whose heart are the highways to Zion.
84:6 他们经过流泪谷，叫这谷变为泉源之地；并有秋雨之福，盖满了这谷。
Passing through the valley of Baca, They make it a spring; Indeed the early rain covers it with blessings.
84:7 他们行走，力上加力，各人到锡安朝见神。
They go from strength to strength; Each appears before God in Zion.
84:8 耶和华万军之神阿，求你听我的祷告；雅各的神阿，求你侧耳听。 细拉
O Jehovah God of hosts, hear my prayer; Give ear, O God of Jacob.
84:9 神阿，求你垂顾我们的盾牌；求你观看你受膏者的面。
Behold our shield, O God; And look upon the face of Your anointed.
84:10 在你的院宇住一日，胜似在别处住千日；我宁愿站在我神殿的门槛，也不愿住在恶人的帐棚里。
For a day in Your courts is better than a thousand; I would rather stand at the threshold of the house of my God Than dwell in the tents of the wicked.
84:11 因为耶和华神是日头，是盾牌；耶和华赐下恩典和荣耀；祂未尝留下一样好处，不给那些行动正直的人。
For Jehovah God is a sun and a shield; Jehovah gives grace and glory; He does not withhold anything good From those who walk uprightly.
84:12 万军之耶和华阿，信靠你的人，便为有福。
O Jehovah of hosts, blessed is the man Who trusts in You.
诗篇 Psalms 第 85 篇
85:1 耶和华阿，你喜悦了你的地，使雅各从被掳归回。
You have been pleased, O Jehovah, with Your land; You have turned the captivity of Jacob.
85:2 你赦免了你百姓的罪孽，遮盖了他们一切的罪。 细拉
You have forgiven the iniquity of Your people; You have covered all their sin.
85:3 你收去了所发的忿怒，使你猛烈的怒气转消。
587
You have taken away all Your wrath; You have turned from the fierceness of Your anger.
85:4 拯救我们的神阿，求你恢复我们，止住你向我们所发的恼怒。
Restore us, O God of our salvation, And cause Your indignation toward us to cease.
85:5 你要向我们发怒到永远么？你要将你的怒气延留到万代么？
Will You be angry with us forever? Will You extend Your anger from generation to generation?
85:6 你不再将我们救活，使你的百姓因你喜乐么？
Will You not again revive us, That Your people may rejoice in You?
85:7 耶和华阿，求你向我们显示你的慈爱，又将你的救恩赐给我们。
Show us, O Jehovah, Your lovingkindness, And grant us Your salvation.
85:8 我要听神耶和华所说的话，因为祂必向祂的百姓，祂的虔诚人，说平安的话；他们却不可再转向愚妄。
I will hear what God Jehovah will speak, For He will speak peace To His people and to His faithful ones; But let them not turn again unto folly.
85:9 祂的救恩，诚然与敬畏祂的人相近，叫荣耀住在我们的地上。
Surely His salvation is near to those who fear Him, That glory may dwell in our land.
85:10 慈爱和真实，彼此相遇；公义和平安，彼此相亲。
Lovingkindness and truth have met together; Righteousness and peace have kissed each other.
85:11 真实从地生出，公义从天俯视。
Truth has sprung forth from the earth, And righteousness has looked down from heaven.
85:12 耶和华必赐下好处，我们的地要多出土产。
Indeed Jehovah will give what is good, And our land will give its increase.
85:13 公义要行在祂面前，叫祂的脚踪成为可走的路。
Righteousness will go before Him And make His footsteps a way to walk in.
诗篇 Psalms 第 86 篇
86:1 耶和华阿，求你侧耳应允我，因我是困苦穷乏的。
Incline Your ear, O Jehovah; answer me; For I am poor and needy.
86:2 求你保存我的性命；因我是忠信的。你是我的神，求你拯救这信靠你的仆人。
Keep my soul; for I am faithful; Save Your servant who trusts in You, O You who are my God.
86:3 主阿，求你恩待我，因我终日呼求你。
Be gracious to me, O Lord; For to You do I call out all day long.
86:4 主阿，求你使仆人的魂喜乐；因为我的魂仰望你。
Cause the soul of Your servant to rejoice, For unto You, O Lord, do I lift up my soul.
86:5 主阿，你本为良善，乐意饶恕人，对一切呼求你的人，有丰盛的慈爱。
For You, O Lord, are good and ready to forgive And abundant in lovingkindness to all who call upon You.
86:6 耶和华阿，求你侧耳听我的祷告，垂听我恳求的声音。
Give ear, O Jehovah, to my prayer, And give heed to the voice of my supplications.
86:7 我在患难之日要呼求你，因为你必应允我。
In the day of my distress I call upon You, For You answer me.
86:8 主阿，诸神之中没有可比你的；你的作为也无可比。
There is none like You among the gods, O Lord; Nor are there any works like Yours.
86:9 主阿，你所造的万邦，都要来到你面前下拜；他们也要荣耀你的名。
All the nations which You have made will come And worship before You, O Lord; And they will glorify Your name.
86:10 因你为大，且行奇妙的事；惟独你是神。
For You are great, and You do wondrous deeds; You alone are God.
86:11 耶和华阿，求你将你的道路指教我；我要行在你的真理中。求你使我专心敬畏你的名。
Teach me, O Jehovah, Your way; I will walk in Your truth. Make my heart single in fearing Your name.
86:12 主我的神阿，我要全心赞美你；我要荣耀你的名，直到永远。
I will praise You, O Lord my God, with all my heart; And I will glorify Your name forever.
86:13 因为你向我发的慈爱是大的，你救了我的魂，免入极深的阴间。
For Your lovingkindness is great toward me, And You have delivered my soul from the lowest Sheol.
86:14 神阿，骄傲的人起来攻击我，又有一伙强横的人寻索我的命；他们不将你摆在面前。
O God, the proud have risen up against me, And a company of violent men seek my life; And they do not set You before them.
86:15 但主阿，你是有怜恤有恩典的神，不轻易发怒，并有丰盛的慈爱和真实。
But You, O Lord, are a compassionate and gracious God, Long-suffering and abundant in lovingkindness and truth.
86:16 求你转向我，恩待我；将你的力量赐给你仆人，救你婢女的儿子。
Turn to me and be gracious to me; Give Your strength to Your servant, And save the son of Your female servant.
86:17 求你向我显出善待我的凭据，叫恨我的人看见便羞愧；因为你耶和华帮助了我，安慰了我。
Show me a token of goodness, That those who hate me may see it and be ashamed; For You, O Jehovah, have helped me and comforted me.
诗篇 Psalms 第 87 篇
87:1 耶和华所立的根基在圣山上。
His foundation is in the holy mountains.
87:2 祂爱锡安的门，胜于爱雅各一切的住处。
588
Jehovah loves the gates of Zion More than all the dwellings of Jacob.
87:3 神的城阿，有荣耀的事是指着你说的。 细拉
Glorious things are spoken of you, O city of God.
87:4 我要题起拉哈伯和巴比伦人，他们是认识我的人；看哪，还有非利士和推罗并古实人，他们说，这一个生在那里。
I will make mention of Rahab and Babylon as those who know Me; Behold, Philistia and Tyre along with Cush: This one was born there, they say .
87:5 但论到锡安必说，这一个那一个都生在其中；而且至高者必亲自坚立这城。
But of Zion it will be said, This one and that one were born in her, And the Most High Himself will establish her.
87:6 当耶和华记录众民的时候，祂要数点出，这一个生在那里。 细拉
Jehovah will count When He records the peoples: This One was born there.
87:7 歌唱的同跳舞的都要说，我的泉源都在你里面。
Then singing as well as dancing, they will say, All my springs are in you.
诗篇 Psalms 第 88 篇
88:1 耶和华拯救我的神阿，我昼夜在你面前呼求。
O Jehovah, the God of my salvation, I have cried out by day and in the night before You.
88:2 愿我的祷告达到你面前；求你侧耳听我的呼求。
May my prayer come before You; Incline Your ear to my cry.
88:3 因为我的魂里饱受患难，我的性命临近阴间。
For my soul is full of troubles, And my life draws near to Sheol.
88:4 我算在下坑的人之中，如同没有帮助的人一样。
I am accounted among those who go down into the pit; I am like a man without any help,
88:5 我被丢弃在死人之中，好像被杀的人躺在坟墓里；他们是你不再记念的，与你的手隔绝了。
Abandoned among the dead, Like the slain that lie in the grave, Whom You remember no more, And they are cut off from Your hand.
88:6 你把我放在极深的坑里，在黑暗的地方，在深处。
You have put me in the lowest pit, In the dark places, in the depths.
88:7 你的忿怒重压着我，你用你一切的波浪使我受苦。 细拉
Your wrath lies heavily upon me, And You have afflicted me with all Your waves.
88:8 你使我的知友远离我，使我为他们所憎恶。我被拘困，不得出来。
You have put my acquaintances far from me; You have made me an abomination to them. I am shut in and cannot go out.
88:9 我的眼睛因困苦而干瘪；耶和华阿，我天天呼求你，向你展开双手祷告。
My eye wastes away at the affliction; I have called out to You, O Jehovah, every day; I have spread out my hands to You.
88:10 你岂要行奇事给死人看么？难道阴魂还能起来赞美你么？ 细拉
Will You perform wonders for the dead? Will the deceased rise up and praise You?
88:11 岂能在坟墓里述说你的慈爱么？岂能在灭亡中述说你的信实么？
Will Your lovingkindness be declared in the grave, Or Your faithfulness in Abaddon?
88:12 你的奇事岂能在幽暗里被知道么？你的公义岂能在忘记之地被知道么？
Will Your wonders be made known in the darkness, Or Your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness?
88:13 耶和华阿，我却呼求你；早晨我的祷告要达到你面前。
But I, O Jehovah, have cried out to You; And in the morning my prayer comes before You.
88:14 耶和华阿，你为何丢弃我的魂？为何掩面不顾我？
Why, O Jehovah, have You rejected my soul? Why do You hide Your face from me?
88:15 我自幼受苦，几乎死亡；我忍受你的惊恐，慌张不安。
I have been afflicted and about to die since my youth; I bear Your terrors; I am overwhelmed.
88:16 你的烈怒漫过我身；你的惊吓把我剪除。
Your fierce wrath has gone over me; Your terrors have cut me off.
88:17 这些终日如水环绕我，一齐来围困我。
They surrounded me like water all day long; They altogether encompassed me.
88:18 你使我的爱友良朋远离我；我的知友都在黑暗里。
You have put far from me Lover and friend; My acquaintances are in darkness.
诗篇 Psalms 第 89 篇
89:1 我要歌唱耶和华的慈爱，直到永远；我要用口将你的信实传与万代。
I will sing of the lovingkindness of Jehovah forever; From generation to generation I will make known Your faithfulness with my mouth.
89:2 因我曾说，你的慈爱必建立到永远；你必将你的信实，坚立在诸天之上。
For I have said, Lovingkindness will be built up forever; In the heavens themselves You will establish Your faithfulness.
89:3 我与我所拣选的人立了约；我向我的仆人大卫起了誓：
I have made a covenant with My chosen one; I have sworn to David My servant:
89:4 我要坚立你的后裔，直到永远；我要建立你的宝座，直到万代。 细拉
I will establish your seed forever, And I will build up your throne from generation to generation.
89:5 耶和华阿，诸天要称赞你的奇事；在圣者的会中，要称赞你的信实。
And the heavens will praise Your wonders, O Jehovah, Indeed Your faithfulness in the congregation of the holy ones.
89:6 在天空谁能比耶和华呢？大能者的众子中，有谁像耶和华呢？
589
For who in the skies can be compared to Jehovah? Who among the sons of the mighty is like Jehovah,
89:7 祂在圣者的议会中，是大可畏的神，比一切在祂四围的更可畏惧。
Like God, greatly feared in the council of the holy ones And awesome beyond all around Him?
89:8 耶和华万军之神阿，谁能像你这大能的耶和华呢？你的信实是在你的四围。
O Jehovah God of hosts, who is like You, the mighty Jah? Your faithfulness also surrounds You.
89:9 你管辖海的狂涛：波浪翻腾，你使它平静。
You rule the swelling of the sea: When its waves rise up, You still them.
89:10 你把拉哈伯打碎，如同被杀的人；你用有能的膀臂打散了你的仇敌。
You crushed Rahab like one slain; You scattered Your enemies with the arm of Your strength.
89:11 诸天属你，地也属你；世界和其中所充满的，都是你建立的。
The heavens are Yours; the earth also is Yours; The world and its fullness You have founded.
89:12 南北都是你创造的；他泊和黑门都因你的名欢呼。
You created the north and the south; Tabor and Hermon shout for joy at Your name.
89:13 你有大能的膀臂；你的手有力，你的右手也高举。
You have an arm with might; Your hand is strong; Your right hand is high.
89:14 公义和公平，是你宝座的根基；慈爱和真实，行在你面前。
Righteousness and justice are the foundation of Your throne; Lovingkindness and truth go before Your face.
89:15 知道向你欢呼的，那民是有福的；耶和华阿，他们在你的面光中行走。
Blessed are the people who know the joyful shout; They walk, O Jehovah, in the light of Your countenance.
89:16 他们因你的名终日欢腾，因你的公义得以高举。
In Your name they exult all day long, And in Your righteousness they are exalted.
89:17 你是他们力量的荣耀；因着你的恩惠，我们的角必被高举。
For You are the glory of their strength, And in Your favor our horn is exalted.
89:18 我们的盾牌属耶和华，我们的王属以色列的圣者。
For our shield belongs to Jehovah, And our king, to the Holy One of Israel.
89:19 当时你在异象中论到你的圣者，说，我已把救助之力，加给那有能者；我已高举那从民中所拣选的。
Then You spoke in vision Of Your Holy One, and You said, I have given help to One who is mighty; I have exalted One chosen from My people.
89:20 我寻得我的仆人大卫，用我的圣膏油膏了祂。
I have found David My Servant; With My holy oil I have anointed Him,
89:21 我的手必坚定的与祂同在；我的膀臂也必坚固祂。
With whom My hand will be established; My arm will also strengthen Him.
89:22 仇敌必不勒索祂，凶恶之子也不苦害祂。
The enemy will not exact anything from Him, Nor will the son of wickedness afflict Him.
89:23 我要在祂面前打碎祂的敌人，击败那些恨祂的人。
And I will crush His adversaries before Him, And I will strike those who hate Him.
89:24 我的信实和我的慈爱，要与祂同在；因我的名，祂的角必被高举。
And My faithfulness and My lovingkindness will be with Him, And in My name His horn will be exalted.
89:25 我要使祂的左手伸到海上，右手伸到河上。
And I will set His hand on the sea And His right hand on the rivers.
89:26 祂要称呼我说，你是我的父，是我的神，是拯救我的磐石。
He will call upon Me, saying, You are My Father, My God and the rock of My salvation.
89:27 我也要立祂为长子，为地上最高的君王。
I will also make Him the Firstborn, The highest of the kings of the earth.
89:28 我要向祂守住我的慈爱，直到永远；我与祂立的约，必要坚定。
I will keep My lovingkindness for Him forever, And My covenant will stand firm with Him.
89:29 我也要使祂的后裔存到永远，使祂的宝座如天之久。
And I will establish His seed forever, And His throne as the days of heaven.
89:30 倘若祂的子孙离弃我的律法，不遵行我的典章，
If His children forsake My law And do not walk in My ordinances,
89:31 渎犯我的律例，不遵守我的诫命，
If they profane My statutes And do not keep My commandments,
89:32 我就要用杖责罚他们的过犯，用鞭责罚他们的罪孽。
I will punish their transgression with a rod And their iniquity with stripes.
89:33 只是我必不将我的慈爱，全然从祂挪去，也必不背弃我的信实。
But My lovingkindness I will not utterly take away from Him, Nor will I be false to My own faithfulness.
89:34 我必不违犯我的约，也不改变我嘴唇所出的。
I will not profane My covenant, Nor will I change what has gone forth from My lips.
89:35 我一次指着自己的圣别起誓；我必不向大卫说谎。
Once I have sworn by My holiness; I will not lie to David.
89:36 祂的后裔要存到永远，祂的宝座在我面前，如日之恒一般；
His seed shall endure forever, And His throne, like the sun before Me;
89:37 又如月亮永远坚立；这天上的见证是确实的。 细拉
It shall be established forever like the moon; And the witness in the skies is firm.
89:38 但你已丢掉弃绝他；你已恼怒你的受膏者。
But You have cast off and rejected; You have been angry with Your anointed.
89:39 你厌恶了与你仆人所立的约，将他的冠冕抛掷于地，玷污了。
590
You have abhorred the covenant of Your servant; You have profaned his crown by casting it to the ground.
89:40 你拆毁了他一切的围墙；你使他的保障变为荒场。
You have broken down all his walls; You have brought his strongholds to ruin.
89:41 凡过路的人都抢夺他；他成了邻国所羞辱的。
All who pass by on the way plunder him; He has become a reproach to his neighbors.
89:42 你高举了他敌人的右手；你叫他一切的仇敌喜乐。
You have exalted the right hand of his adversaries; You have caused all his enemies to rejoice.
89:43 你叫他的刀剑卷刃，叫他在争战之中站立不住。
Indeed You have turned back the edge of his sword And have not made him stand in the battle.
89:44 你使他的光辉止息，将他的宝座推倒于地。
You have made his brightness cease And have cast down his throne to the ground.
89:45 你减少他青年的日子；你使他披上羞愧。 细拉
You have shortened the days of his youth; You have covered him with shame.
89:46 耶和华阿，这要到几时呢？你要将自己隐藏到永远么？你的忿怒如火焚烧，要到几时呢？
How long, O Jehovah? Will You hide Yourself forever? How long will Your wrath burn like fire?
89:47 求你记念我的时候是何等的短少－你所创造的一切世人，你要使他们归于何等的虚空！
Remember how short my time is-For what vanity You have created all the sons of men!
89:48 什么人能常活而不见死？他能救自己的魂脱离阴间的权势么？ 细拉
What man will live and not see death? Will he deliver his soul from the power of Sheol?
89:49 主阿，你先前所施行的慈爱，就是你凭自己的信实向大卫起誓的，在那里呢？
Where are Your former acts of lovingkindness, O Lord, Which You swore to David in Your faithfulness?
89:50 主阿，求你记念仆人们所受的羞辱，记念我怎样将一切强盛之民的羞辱承当在我怀里；
Remember, O Lord, the reproach of Your servants, How I bear in my bosom the reproach of all the mighty peoples,
89:51 耶和华阿，你的仇敌，用这羞辱羞辱了你的仆人，羞辱了你受膏者的脚踪。
With which Your enemies have reproached, O Jehovah, With which they have reproached the footsteps of Your anointed.
89:52 耶和华是当受颂赞的，直到永远。阿们，阿们。
Blessed be Jehovah forever. Amen and Amen.
诗篇 Psalms 第 90 篇
90:1 主阿，你世世代代作我们的居所。
O Lord, You have been our dwelling place In all generations.
90:2 诸山未曾生出，地与世界你未曾造成，从亘古到永远，你是神。
Before the mountains were brought forth, And before You gave birth to the earth and the world, Indeed from eternity to eternity, You are God.
90:3 你使人归回尘土，说，你们世人要归回。
You return man to dust And say, Return, you sons of men.
90:4 在你看来，千年如刚过的昨日，又如夜间的一更。
For a thousand years in Your sight Are like yesterday when it passes by And like a watch in the night.
90:5 你仿佛用暴雨将他们冲去；他们如睡一觉；早晨，他们如重新生长的草；
You sweep them away as with a rain flood; they are as in a sleep: In the morning they are like grass that comes up anew.
90:6 早晨发旺，重新生长，晚上割下枯干。
In the morning it flourishes and comes up anew; In the evening it is cut down, and it dries up.
90:7 我们因你的怒气而消灭，因你的忿怒而惊惶。
For we have been consumed by Your anger, And by Your wrath we have been troubled.
90:8 你将我们的罪孽摆在你面前，将我们隐藏的罪摆在你面光之中。
You have set our iniquities before You, Our secret sins in the light of Your countenance.
90:9 我们经过的日子，都在你盛怒之中；我们度尽的年岁，好像一声叹息。
For all our days have passed away in Your overflowing wrath; We bring our years to an end like a sigh.
90:10 我们一生的年日是七十岁，若是强壮可到八十岁；但其中所矜夸的，不过是劳苦愁烦，转眼成空，我们便如飞而去。
The days of our years are seventy years, Or, if because of strength, eighty years; But their pride is labor and sorrow, For it is soon gone, and we fly away.
90:11 谁晓得你怒气的威势？谁按着你该受的敬畏晓得你的盛怒？
Who knows the power of Your anger, And Your overflowing wrath according to the fear that is due You?
90:12 求你指教我们怎样数算自己的日子，好叫我们得着智慧的心。
Teach us then to number our days That we may gain a heart of wisdom.
90:13 耶和华阿，我们要等到几时呢？求你转回，为你的仆人后悔。
Return, O Jehovah! How long? And repent concerning Your servants.
90:14 求你使我们在早晨饱得你的慈爱，好叫我们一生欢呼喜乐。
Satisfy us in the morning with Your lovingkindness That we may give a ringing shout and rejoice all our days.
90:15 求你照着你使我们受苦的日子，照着我们遭难的年岁，叫我们喜乐。
Cause us to rejoice according to the days that You have afflicted us, According to the years that we have seen evil.
90:16 愿你的作为向你仆人显现，愿你的威荣向他们子孙显明。
Let Your work appear to Your servants, And Your splendor, to their children.
90:17 愿主我们神的恩惠，归于我们身上；愿你坚立我们手所作的工，归于我们身上；我们手所作的工，愿你坚立。
And let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us, And establish the work of our hands upon us; Indeed the work of our hands, establish it.
591
诗篇 Psalms 第 91 篇
91:1 住在至高者隐密处的，必住在全能者的荫下。
He who dwells in the secret place of the Most High Will abide in the shadow of the Almighty.
91:2 我要论到耶和华说，祂是我的避难所，是我的山寨，是我的神，是我所信靠的！
I say of Jehovah, My refuge and My fortress, My God in whom I trust!
91:3 因为祂必救你脱离捕鸟人的网罗，脱离毒害的瘟疫。
For He will deliver You From the snare of the fowler, From the deadly pestilence.
91:4 祂必用自己的翎毛遮蔽你，你要投靠在祂的翅膀底下；祂的真实，是大小的盾牌。
With His pinions He will cover You, And under His wings You will take refuge; His truth is a shield and a buckler.
91:5 你必不怕黑夜的惊骇，或是白日的飞箭；
You will not be afraid of the terror by night, Or of the arrow that flies by day,
91:6 也不怕黑暗中流行的瘟疫，或是午间损毁人的毒病。
Or of the pestilence that walks in darkness, Or of the destruction that lays waste at noon.
91:7 虽有千人仆倒在你旁边，万人仆倒在你右边，灾害却不得临近你。
A thousand will fall at Your side, And ten thousand at Your right hand; But it will not come near to You.
91:8 不过你要亲眼观看，见恶人遭报。
You will only look on with Your eyes And see the recompense of the wicked.
91:9 因你已将至高者，耶和华我的避难所，当你的居所；
For You have made Jehovah, who is my refuge, Even the Most High, Your habitation,
91:10 祸患必不临到你，灾害也不挨近你的帐棚。
No evil will befall You, Nor will any plague come near Your tent.
91:11 因祂要为你吩咐祂的使者，在你所行的一切道路上保护你。
For He will give His angels charge concerning You To keep You in all Your ways.
91:12 他们要用手托着你，免得你的脚碰在石头上。
They will bear You up in their hands, Lest You dash Your foot against a stone.
91:13 你要踹在狮子和虺蛇的身上，践踏少壮狮子和大蛇。
You will tread upon the lion and the cobra; You will trample the young lion and the serpent.
91:14 神说，因为祂专一爱我，我要搭救祂；因为祂认识我的名，我要把祂安置在高处。
Because He has set His love upon Me, I will rescue Him; I will set Him on high, because He has known My name.
91:15 祂要呼求我，我就应允祂。祂在急难中，我要与祂同在；我要搭救祂，使祂尊贵。
He will call upon Me, and I will answer Him. I will be with Him in distress; I will deliver Him and honor Him.
91:16 我要使祂足享长寿，将我的救恩显明给祂。
With an extension of His days I will satisfy Him, And I will show Him My salvation.
诗篇 Psalms 第 92 篇
92:1 称谢耶和华，歌颂你至高者的名，
It is good to give thanks to Jehovah And to sing psalms to Your name, O Most High;
92:2 早晨传扬你的慈爱，夜间传扬你的信实，
To declare Your lovingkindness in the morning And Your faithfulness in the nights,
92:3 弹奏十弦的乐器和瑟，用琴弹出幽雅的声音；这本为美事。
Upon an instrument of ten strings and upon a harp, Upon the higgaion of the lyre.
92:4 因为耶和华阿，你借着你所作的使我喜乐；因你手的工作，我要欢呼。
For You have made me rejoice, O Jehovah, because of what You have done; Because of the works of Your hands I will shout for joy.
92:5 耶和华阿，你的工作何其大！你的意念极其深！
How great are Your works, O Jehovah! So very deep are Your thoughts!
92:6 无知人不晓得，愚顽人也不明白。
A senseless man does not know them, Nor does a fool understand them.
92:7 恶人茂盛如草，一切作孽之人发旺的时候，正是他们要灭亡，直到永远。
When the wicked sprout like grass, And all the workers of iniquity blossom, It is so that they may be destroyed forever.
92:8 耶和华阿，惟有你为至高，直到永远。
But You are on high forever, O Jehovah.
92:9 耶和华，看哪，你的仇敌；看哪，你的仇敌都要灭亡；一切作孽的都要离散。
For behold, Your enemies, O Jehovah; For behold, Your enemies will perish; All the workers of iniquity will be scattered.
92:10 你却高举了我的角，如野牛的角；我是被新油膏了的。
But You have exalted my horn like that of a wild ox; I am anointed with fresh oil.
92:11 我眼睛看见我的仇敌遭报；我耳朵听见那些起来攻击我的作恶之人受罚。
And my eye has seen its desire for my enemies; My ears have heard their desire for the evildoers who rise up against me.
92:12 义人要发旺如棕树，生长如利巴嫩的香柏树。
The righteous man will flourish like the palm tree; He will grow like a cedar in Lebanon.
92:13 他们栽植于耶和华的殿中，发旺在我们神的院里。
Planted in the house of Jehovah, They will flourish in the courts of our God.
92:14 他们年老的时候，仍要结果子；要满了汁浆而常发青；
They will still bring forth fruit in old age; They will be full of sap and green;
592
92:15 好显明耶和华是正直的；祂是我的磐石，在祂毫无不义。
To declare that Jehovah is upright; He is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in Him.
诗篇 Psalms 第 93 篇
93:1 耶和华作王；祂以威严为衣穿上。耶和华以能力为衣，以能力束腰。世界就坚立，必不动摇。
Jehovah reigns; He is clothed with majesty. Jehovah is clothed, He has girded Himself, with strength. Indeed the world has been established; it will not be moved.
93:2 你的宝座自古就立定；你从亘古就有。
Your throne is established from of old; You are from eternity.
93:3 耶和华阿，大水扬起了；大水扬起了声音，扬起了波浪的响声。
The floods have lifted up, O Jehovah; The floods have lifted up their voice; The floods lift up their roaring.
93:4 耶和华在高处大有能力，胜过众水的声音，胜过洋海的大浪！
More than the voices of many waters, Than the mighty breakers of the sea, Jehovah on high is mighty!
93:5 耶和华阿，你的法度极为确定；你的殿称为圣别，是合宜的，直到永远。
Your testimonies are very sure; Holiness befits Your house, O Jehovah, forevermore.
诗篇 Psalms 第 94 篇
94:1 耶和华阿，你是伸冤的神；伸冤的神阿，求你发出光来！
O God of vengeance, O Jehovah, O God of vengeance, shine forth!
94:2 审判全地的主阿，求你挺身而立，使骄傲人受应得的报应。
Lift Yourself up, O Judge of the earth; Render the reward upon the proud.
94:3 耶和华阿，恶人欢跃要到几时呢？要到几时呢？
How long, O Jehovah, will the wicked, How long will the wicked exult?
94:4 他们絮絮叨叨，说狂妄的话；一切作孽的人都夸耀自己。
They burst out; they speak arrogantly; All the workers of iniquity boast.
94:5 耶和华阿，他们强压你的百姓，苦害你的产业。
They crush Your people, O Jehovah, And afflict Your inheritance.
94:6 他们杀死寡妇和寄居的，又杀害孤儿。
They slay the widow and the stranger, And they murder orphans.
94:7 他们说，耶和华必看不见，雅各的神必不思念。
And they say, Jehovah does not see, And the God of Jacob does not consider.
94:8 你们民间的无知人当思想；你们愚顽人，到几时才有智慧呢？
Consider, you senseless ones among the people; And you foolish ones, when will you become wise?
94:9 设置耳朵的，难道自己听不见么？造作眼睛的，难道自己看不见么？
He who planted the ear, does He not hear? And He who formed the eye, does He not see?
94:10 管教列邦的，就是教导人知识的，难道自己不责备人么？
He who disciplines the nations, He who teaches man knowledge, does He not reprove?
94:11 耶和华知道人的意念是虚妄的。
Jehovah knows the thoughts of man, That they are vanity.
94:12 耶和华阿，你所管教，用律法所教训的人，是有福的；
Blessed is the man Whom You discipline, O Jehovah, And teach out of Your law;
94:13 你使他在遭难的日子，得享安息，等到为恶人预备的坑挖好。
That You may give him rest from the days of evil Until the pit is dug for the wicked.
94:14 因为耶和华必不丢弃祂的百姓，也不离弃祂的产业。
For Jehovah will not abandon His people, Nor will He forsake His inheritance.
94:15 审判要归向公义，心里正直的必都随从。
For judgment will return unto righteousness, And all the upright in heart will follow it.
94:16 谁肯为我起来攻击作恶的？谁肯为我站起抵挡作孽的？
Who will rise up for me against the evildoers? Who will stand up for me against the workers of iniquity?
94:17 若不是耶和华帮助我，我的魂早已住在寂静之中了。
Unless Jehovah had been my help, My soul would have soon dwelt in silence.
94:18 我正说我失了脚，耶和华阿，那时你的慈爱扶持了我。
When I said, My foot has slipped, Your lovingkindness, O Jehovah, upheld me.
94:19 我里面思虑繁多，那时你的安慰使我的魂欢乐。
When my disquieting thoughts within me are many, Your comfortings delight my soul.
94:20 那借着律例制造祸患，在位上行毁坏的，岂能与你相交么？
Shall the seat of destruction be united with You, Which devises trouble through its statutes?
94:21 他们结党攻击义人的性命，将无辜的人定为死罪。
They band together against the soul of the righteous man And condemn innocent blood.
94:22 但耶和华向来作我的高台，我的神作了我投靠的磐石。
But Jehovah has been my high tower, And my God the rock of my refuge;
94:23 祂叫他们的罪孽归到他们身上；祂要因他们的恶灭绝他们；耶和华我们的神要把他们灭绝。
And He will return their iniquity upon them And destroy them in their own evil; Jehovah our God will destroy them.
593
诗篇 Psalms 第 95 篇
95:1 来阿，我们要向耶和华欢唱，向拯救我们的磐石欢呼。
Come, let us sing for joy to Jehovah; Let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation.
95:2 我们要到祂面前来称谢祂，用诗歌向祂欢呼。
Let us come before His presence with thanksgiving; Let us make a joyful noise to Him with psalms.
95:3 因耶和华是大神，是大君王，超乎万神之上。
For Jehovah is a great God And a great King above all gods.
95:4 地的深处在祂手中，山的高峰也属祂。
In His hand are the depths of the earth, The heights of the mountains are His also.
95:5 海洋属祂，是祂造的；旱地也是祂手造成的。
The sea is His, and He made it; And His hands formed the dry land.
95:6 来阿，我们要屈身敬拜，在造我们的耶和华面前跪下。
Come, let us worship and bow down; Let us kneel before Jehovah our Maker.
95:7 因为祂是我们的神，我们是祂草场上的民，是祂手下的羊。你们今日若听见祂的声音，
For He is our God, And we are the people of His pasture And the flock of His hand. Today, if you hear His voice,
95:8 就不可硬着心，像在米利巴，像在旷野玛撒的日子一样；
Do not harden your heart as at Meribah, As in the day of Massah in the wilderness;
95:9 那时你们的祖宗虽然看见我的作为，还是试探我，试验我。
When your fathers tested Me; They tried Me, even though they had seen My work.
95:10 四十年之久，我厌烦那一代的人，说，他们是心里迷糊的百姓，竟不晓得我的法则；
For forty years I loathed that generation, And I said, They are a people who go astray in heart; And they do not know My ways;
95:11 所以我在怒中起誓，说，他们绝不可进入我的安息！
Therefore I swore in My anger: They shall by no means enter into My rest!
诗篇 Psalms 第 96 篇
96:1 你们要向耶和华唱新歌；全地都要向耶和华歌唱。
Sing to Jehovah a new song; Sing to Jehovah, all the earth.
96:2 要向耶和华歌唱，颂赞祂的名，天天传扬祂的救恩。
Sing to Jehovah, bless His name; Proclaim His salvation from day to day.
96:3 要在列邦中述说祂的荣耀，在万民中述说祂的奇事。
Declare His glory among the nations, His wondrous deeds among all the peoples.
96:4 因耶和华为大，当受极大的赞美；祂在万神之上当受敬畏。
For Jehovah is great and much to be praised; He is to be feared above all gods.
96:5 众民的神都属虚无，惟独耶和华造作诸天。
For all the gods of the peoples are idols, But Jehovah made the heavens.
96:6 有尊荣和威严在祂面前，有能力与华美在祂圣所。
Majesty and splendor are before Him; Strength and beauty are in His sanctuary.
96:7 众民中的各族阿，你们要将荣耀能力归给耶和华，都归给耶和华；
Ascribe to Jehovah, O families of the peoples, Ascribe to Jehovah, glory and strength;
96:8 要将耶和华的名所当得的荣耀归给祂，拿供物来进入祂的院宇。
Ascribe to Jehovah the glory of His name; Bring an offering, and come into His courts.
96:9 当以圣别的妆饰敬拜耶和华；全地要在祂面前战抖。
Worship Jehovah in holy splendor; Tremble before Him, all the earth.
96:10 要在列邦中说，耶和华作王；世界就坚立，必不动摇；祂要按公正审判众民。
Say among the nations, Jehovah reigns; Indeed the world has been established; it will not be moved; He will judge the peoples with equity.
96:11 愿天喜乐，愿地欢腾；愿海和其中所充满的澎湃；
Let the heavens rejoice and the earth be glad; Let the sea and its fullness roar.
96:12 愿田和其中所有的都欢乐；那时，林中的树木都要在耶和华面前欢唱，
Let the field and all that is in it exult; Then all the trees of the forest will sing for joy
96:13 因为祂来了；祂来要审判这地；祂要按公义审判世界，按祂的真实判断众民。
Before Jehovah, for He is coming; For He is coming to judge the earth; He will judge the world with righteousness, And the peoples with His truth.
诗篇 Psalms 第 97 篇
97:1 耶和华作王！愿地欢腾，愿众海岛喜乐。
Jehovah reigns! Let the earth be glad; Let the many islands rejoice.
97:2 密云和幽暗，在祂的四围；公义和公平，是祂宝座的根基。
Clouds and deep darkness surround Him; Righteousness and justice are the foundation of His throne.
97:3 有火在祂前头行，烧灭祂四围的敌人。
A fire goes before Him And burns up His adversaries all around.
97:4 祂的闪电光照世界；地看见便震动。
594
His lightning illumines the world; The earth sees and trembles.
97:5 诸山见耶和华的面，就是全地之主的面，便镕化如蜡。
The mountains melt like wax at the presence of Jehovah, At the presence of the Lord of the whole earth.
97:6 诸天传扬祂的公义，万民看见祂的荣耀。
The heavens declare His righteousness, And all the peoples see His glory.
97:7 愿一切事奉雕制的偶像，靠虚无之神像自夸的，都蒙羞愧；万神哪，你们都当拜祂。
Let all who serve a graven image be ashamed, Who make their boast in idols; Worship Him, all you gods.
97:8 耶和华阿，因你的判断，锡安听见就喜乐，犹大的女子也欢腾。
Zion hears and rejoices, And the daughters of Judah are glad, Because of Your judgments, O Jehovah.
97:9 因为耶和华阿，你是管理全地的至高者；你被尊崇，远超万神之上。
For You, O Jehovah, are most high over all the earth; You are exalted far above all gods.
97:10 你们爱耶和华的，当恨恶邪恶！祂保护虔诚人的性命，搭救他们脱离恶人的手。
O you who love Jehovah, hate evil! He preserves the souls of His faithful ones; He delivers them from the hand of the wicked.
97:11 撒播亮光是为义人，撒播喜乐是为心里正直的人。
Light is sown for the righteous man, And rejoicing for the upright in heart.
97:12 义人哪，你们当因耶和华喜乐，赞美祂可记念的圣名。
Rejoice in Jehovah, O righteous ones; And praise His holy memorial.
诗篇 Psalms 第 98 篇
98:1 你们要向耶和华唱新歌，因为祂行了奇妙的事。祂的右手和圣臂，为祂行了拯救。
Sing to Jehovah a new song, For He has done wonderful things. His right hand and His holy arm Have accomplished salvation for Him.
98:2 耶和华使人知道祂的救恩，在列邦人眼前显出祂的公义。
Jehovah has made His salvation known; In the sight of the nations He has revealed His righteousness.
98:3 祂记念祂向以色列家所施的慈爱与信实；地的四极，都看见我们神的救恩。
He remembered His lovingkindness and His faithfulness Toward the house of Israel; All the ends of the earth have seen The salvation of our God.
98:4 全地都要向耶和华欢呼；要发出大声，欢呼歌颂。
Make a joyful noise to Jehovah, all the earth; Break forth, and sing for joy, and sing psalms.
98:5 要用琴歌颂耶和华，用琴和诗歌的声音歌颂祂。
Sing psalms to Jehovah with the lyre, With the lyre and the sound of melody.
98:6 要用号和角声，在君王耶和华面前欢呼。
With trumpets and the sound of the horn Make a joyful noise before the King, Jehovah.
98:7 愿海和其中所充满的澎湃，世界和住在其间的也要发声。
Let the sea and its fullness roar, The world and those who inhabit it.
98:8 愿江河拍手；愿诸山在耶和华面前一同欢呼，
Let the rivers clap their hands; Let the mountains sing for joy together
98:9 因为祂来，要审判地；祂要按公义审判世界，按公正判断众民。
Before Jehovah, for He is coming To judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness And the peoples with equity.
诗篇 Psalms 第 99 篇
99:1 耶和华作王；众民当战抖。祂坐在二基路伯之间；地当动摇。
Jehovah reigns; let the peoples tremble. He sits between the cherubim; let the earth shake.
99:2 耶和华在锡安为大；祂被尊崇，超乎万民之上。
Jehovah is great in Zion, And He is exalted over all the peoples.
99:3 他们当赞美你大而可畏的名，这名是圣别的；
Let them praise Your great and awesome name-It is holy -
99:4 又当赞美王的能力，祂喜爱公平。你坚立公正，在雅各中施行公理和公义。
And the strength of the King, who loves justice. You have established equity; You have executed Justice and righteousness in Jacob.
99:5 你们当尊崇耶和华我们的神，在祂脚凳前下拜；祂是圣别的。
Exalt Jehovah our God, And worship at His footstool; Holy is He.
99:6 在祂的祭司中有摩西和亚伦，在呼求祂名的人中有撒母耳，他们呼求耶和华，祂就应允他们。
Moses and Aaron among His priests, And Samuel among those who called on His name-They called out to Jehovah, And He answered them.
99:7 祂在云柱中对他们说话；他们遵守祂的法度，和祂所赐给他们的律例。
In the pillar of cloud He spoke to them; They kept His testimonies and the statute that He gave them.
99:8 耶和华我们的神阿，你应允了他们；你是赦免他们的神，却也是按他们所行施行报应的一位。
O Jehovah our God, You answered them; You were a forgiving God to them, Yet One avenging their deeds.
99:9 你们要尊崇耶和华我们的神，在祂的圣山下拜；因为耶和华我们的神是圣别的。
Exalt Jehovah our God, And worship on His holy mountain; For holy is Jehovah our God.
诗篇 Psalms 第 100 篇
100:1 全地当向耶和华欢呼。
Make a joyful noise to Jehovah, all the earth.
595
100:2 你们当欢喜的事奉耶和华；当欢唱着到祂面前来。
Serve Jehovah with rejoicing; Come before His presence with joyful singing.
100:3 你们当晓得耶和华是神；我们是祂造的，也是属祂的；我们是祂的民，也是祂草场的羊。
Know that it is Jehovah who is God; It is He who has made us and not we ourselves. We are His people and the sheep of His pasture.
100:4 当称谢着进入祂的门，赞美着进入祂的院；当感谢祂，颂赞祂的名。
Enter His gates with thanksgiving, His courts with praise; Give thanks to Him; bless His name.
100:5 因为耶和华本为善；祂的慈爱存到永远，祂的信实直到万代。
For Jehovah is good; His lovingkindness is forever, And His faithfulness is to all generations.
诗篇 Psalms 第 101 篇
101:1 我要歌唱慈爱和公平；耶和华阿，我要向你歌颂。
I will sing of lovingkindness and justice; To You, O Jehovah, I will sing psalms.
101:2 我要谨慎遵行完全的道路。你几时到我这里来呢？我要存完全的心，行在我家中。
I will give careful heed to the way of the perfect. When will You come to me? I will walk in the perfectness of my heart Within my house.
101:3 卑下的事，我都不摆在我眼前；偏离正路之人所作的事，我甚恨恶，不容沾在我身上。
I will not set anything base Before my eyes; I hate what those who turn aside do; It will not cling to me.
101:4 弯曲的心必远离我；一切的恶事，我不认识。
A perverse heart will depart from me; No evil will I know.
101:5 在暗中谗谤他邻居的，我必灭绝；眼目高傲，心里骄纵的，我必不容忍。
He who secretly slanders his neighbor, Him I will destroy; He who is of a haughty look and a proud heart, Him I will not tolerate.
101:6 我眼要看这地忠信的人，叫他们与我同住；行在完全道路上的，他要伺候我。
My eyes are on the faithful of the land, That they may abide with me; He who walks in the way of the perfect, He will minister to me.
101:7 行诡诈的，必不得住在我家里；说谎话的，必不得在我眼前坚立。
He who practices deceit Will not dwell within my house; He who speaks lies will not be maintained In my sight.
101:8 我每日早晨，要灭绝这地所有的恶人，好把一切作孽的，从耶和华的城里剪除。
Morning by morning I will destroy All the wicked of the land, In order to cut off from the city of Jehovah All the workers of iniquity.
诗篇 Psalms 第 102 篇
102:1 耶和华阿，求你听我的祷告；愿我的呼求达到你那里。
O Jehovah, hear my prayer; And let my cry come unto You.
102:2 我在急难的日子，求你不要向我掩面；求你向我侧耳；我呼求的日子，求你快快应允我。
Do not hide Your face from me On the day of my distress; Incline Your ear to me; On the day when I call out, answer me quickly.
102:3 因为我的年日如烟消逝，我的骨头如柴烧焦。
For my days are consumed in smoke, And my bones burn like a hearth.
102:4 我的心被击打，如草枯干，甚至我忘记吃饭。
My heart is stricken like grass and dried up; Indeed I have even forgotten to eat my bread.
102:5 因我唉哼的声音，我的骨头紧贴着肉。
Because of the voice of my groaning My bones cling to my flesh.
102:6 我如同旷野的鹈鹕；我好像荒场的鸱鸮。
I am like a pelican of the wilderness; I have become like an owl of the desolate places.
102:7 我儆醒不睡，就像房顶上孤单的麻雀。
I watch, and I am like A lone sparrow on a housetop.
102:8 我的仇敌终日辱骂我；向我猖狂的人，指着我赌咒。
All day long my enemies reproach me; Those who deride me use me as a curse.
102:9 我吃过炉灰，如同吃饭，用眼泪与我所喝的搀和。
For I have eaten ashes like bread, And have mixed my drink with weeping,
102:10 这都因你的恼恨和忿怒；因你把我拾起，又把我抛去。
Because of Your indignation and Your wrath; For You have taken me up and cast me away.
102:11 我的年日如日影偏斜；我也如草枯干。
My days are like a shadow that declines, And I am dried up like grass.
102:12 耶和华阿，你却永远长存；你可记念的名，也存到万代。
But You, O Jehovah, abide forever; And Your memorial is from generation to generation.
102:13 你必起来怜恤锡安，因现在是恩待她的时候；所定的日期已经到了。
You will arise and have compassion on Zion, For it is time to be gracious to her; the appointed time has come.
102:14 你的仆人原来喜悦她的石头，恩待她的尘土。
For Your servants take pleasure in her stones, And show favor to her soil.
102:15 列国要敬畏耶和华的名，地上诸王都要敬畏你的荣耀；
And the nations will fear the name of Jehovah, And all the kings of the earth, Your glory;
102:16 因为耶和华建造了锡安，在祂荣耀里显现了。
For Jehovah has built up Zion; He has appeared in His glory.
102:17 祂垂顾穷乏人的祷告，并不藐视。
He has regarded the prayer of the destitute, And has not despised their prayer.
596
102:18 这必为后代的人记下，将来受造的民要赞美耶和华。
This will be written for a generation to come, And a people to be created will praise Jehovah.
102:19 因为祂已从至高的圣所俯视；耶和华从天向地观看，
For He has looked down from the height of His sanctuary; From heaven Jehovah beheld the earth,
102:20 要垂听被囚之人的叹息，释放那些命定要死的人；
To hear the groaning of the prisoner, To release those appointed to die;
102:21 使人在锡安传述耶和华的名，在耶路撒冷传述赞美祂的话；
That the name of Jehovah may be declared in Zion, And His praise, in Jerusalem,
102:22 就是在众民和列国一同聚集，事奉耶和华的时候。
When the peoples are gathered together, And the kingdoms, to serve Jehovah.
102:23 祂使我的力量中途衰弱，使我的年日短少。
He has weakened my strength in the way; He has shortened my days.
102:24 我说，我的神阿，不要在我中年把我提去；你的年数世世无穷。
I said, My God, Do not take me away in the middle of my days; Your years are throughout all generations.
102:25 你起初立了地的根基，诸天也是你手的工作。
Of old You laid the foundation of the earth, And the heavens are the work of Your hands.
102:26 天地都要灭没，你却长存；天地都要像衣服渐渐旧了；你要将天地如衣裳更换，天地就改变了。
They will perish, but You endure; Indeed all of them will wear out like a garment; Like clothing You will change them, And they will be changed.
102:27 惟有你仍是一样，你的年数也没有穷尽。
But You are the same, And Your years are without end.
102:28 你仆人的子孙要长久安居，他们的后裔要坚立在你面前。
The children of Your servants will continue, And their seed will be established before You.
诗篇 Psalms 第 103 篇
103:1 我的魂哪，你要颂赞耶和华；在我里面的一切，都要颂赞祂的圣名。
Bless Jehovah, O my soul; And all that is within me, bless His holy name.
103:2 我的魂哪，你要颂赞耶和华，不可忘记祂的一切恩惠：
Bless Jehovah, O my soul; And do not forget all His benefits:
103:3 祂赦免你的一切罪孽，医治你的一切疾病；
He pardons all your iniquities; He heals all your diseases;
103:4 祂救赎你的命不见朽坏，以慈爱和怜恤为你的冠冕；
He redeems your life from the pit; He crowns you with lovingkindness and compassions;
103:5 祂用美物使你所愿的得以满足，以致你如鹰反老还童。
He satisfies the prime of your life with good, So that your youth is renewed like the eagle.
103:6 耶和华施行公义，为一切受欺压的伸冤。
Jehovah executes righteous acts, And judgments for all who are oppressed.
103:7 祂使摩西知道祂的法则，叫以色列人晓得祂的作为。
He made His ways known to Moses; His acts, to the children of Israel.
103:8 耶和华有怜恤，有恩典，不轻易发怒，且有丰盛的慈爱。
Jehovah is compassionate and gracious, Long-suffering and abundant in lovingkindness.
103:9 祂不长久责备，也不永远怀怒。
He will not always contend with us, Nor will He keep His anger forever.
103:10 祂没有按我们的罪过对待我们，也没有照我们的罪孽报应我们。
He has not dealt with us according to our sins, Nor has He recompensed us according to our iniquities.
103:11 天离地何等的高，祂的慈爱向敬畏祂的人，也是何等的大。
For as high as the heavens are above the earth, So great is His lovingkindness upon those who fear Him.
103:12 东离西有多远，祂叫我们的过犯，离我们也有多远。
As far as the east is from the west, So far has He removed our transgressions from us.
103:13 父亲怎样怜恤他的儿女，耶和华也怎样怜恤敬畏祂的人。
As compassionate as a father is toward his children, So compassionate is Jehovah toward those who fear Him.
103:14 因为祂知道我们的本体，记念我们不过是尘土。
For He knows our frame; He remembers that we are dust.
103:15 至于世人，他的年日如草一样；他发旺如野地的花：
Man-his days are like grass; He flourishes like a field flower:
103:16 经风一吹，便归无有；原处也不再认识它。
For the wind passes over it, and it is no more; And its own place knows of it no longer.
103:17 但耶和华的慈爱，临及敬畏祂的人，从亘古到永远；祂的公义，也归于子子孙孙；
But Jehovah's lovingkindness is from eternity Unto eternity upon those who fear Him, And His righteousness is to the children's children;
103:18 就是那些遵守祂的约，记念祂的训辞而遵行的人。
To those who keep His covenant And remember His precepts so as to do them.
103:19 耶和华在天上立定宝座，祂的国统管万有。
Jehovah has established His throne in the heavens, And His kingdom rules over all.
103:20 你们作祂天使，就是听从祂的命令，大有能力执行祂话语的，都要颂赞耶和华。
Bless Jehovah, you His angels, Who are mighty in strength to perform His word, By obeying the voice of His word.
597
103:21 你们作祂众军，作祂仆役，行祂所喜悦的，都要颂赞耶和华。
Bless Jehovah, all you His hosts, You His ministers who execute His will.
103:22 你们一切被祂造的，在祂所治理的各处，都要颂赞耶和华。我的魂哪，你要颂赞耶和华。
Bless Jehovah, all you His works, In all places of His dominion. Bless Jehovah, O my soul.
诗篇 Psalms 第 104 篇
104:1 我的魂哪，你要颂赞耶和华。耶和华我的神阿，你为至大。你以尊荣威严为衣服，
Bless Jehovah, O my soul. O Jehovah my God, You are very great. You are clothed with majesty and splendor,
104:2 披上亮光，如披外袍；铺张诸天，如铺幕幔。
Wrapped with light as with a garment; You stretch out the heavens like a tent curtain.
104:3 耶和华在诸水中立楼阁的栋梁，用云彩为车辇，借着风的翅膀而行。
He lays the beams of His upper chambers in the waters; He makes the clouds His chariot; He walks upon the wings of the wind.
104:4 祂以风为使者，以火焰为仆役；
He makes winds His messengers, Flames of fire His ministers.
104:5 将地立在根基上，使地永永远远不动摇。
He established the earth upon its foundations, So that it cannot be moved forever and ever.
104:6 你用深渊如衣裳覆盖地面；诸水立于山岭之上。
You covered it with the deep as with a garment; The waters stood above the mountains.
104:7 你的斥责一发，水便奔逃；你的雷声一发，水便奔流，
At Your rebuke they fled; At the voice of Your thunder they rushed away -
104:8 (诸山升上，诸谷沉下，)归你为诸水所建立之处。
The mountains rose, the valleys sank-To the place that You established for them.
104:9 你定了界限，使水不能过去，不再转回覆盖地面。
You set a border that they may not pass over, That they may not turn back to cover the earth.
104:10 耶和华使泉源涌在山谷，流在山间；
He makes the springs gush forth in the valleys; They run among the mountains;
104:11 使野地的走兽有水喝；野驴得解其渴。
They give drink to every beast of the field; The wild asses quench their thirst.
104:12 天上的飞鸟在水旁住宿，在枝叶间鸣叫。
The birds of heaven dwell alongside them; They utter their voice among the branches.
104:13 祂从楼阁中浇灌山岭。因祂作为的果效，地就丰足。
He waters the mountains from His upper chambers. The earth is satisfied with the fruit of Your works.
104:14 祂使草生长，给牲畜吃；使菜蔬生长，供给人用，使人从地里出产食物：
He causes the grass to grow for the cattle, And herbage for man's use, That he may bring forth food from the earth:
104:15 有酒使人心喜悦，有油使人容光焕发，有粮给人加添心力。
Even wine that cheers man's heart, Oil that makes his face shine, And bread that sustains man's heart.
104:16 耶和华的树木，就是祂所栽种，利巴嫩的香柏树，都满了汁浆，
The trees of Jehovah are full of sap, The cedars of Lebanon, which He planted,
104:17 雀鸟在其上搭窝；至于鹳，松树是它的房屋。
Where the birds build their nests; As for the stork, the cypresses are her house.
104:18 高山为野山羊的住所；岩石为石獾的藏处。
The high mountains are for the wild goats; The cliffs are a refuge to the rockbadgers.
104:19 耶和华造月亮为定节令；日头自知何时沉落。
He made the moon to mark seasons; The sun knows the time of its going down.
104:20 你安设黑暗，便有了夜晚；夜间林中的百兽就四处爬动。
You make darkness, and it is night, In which all the beasts of the forest creep about.
104:21 少壮狮子吼叫，要抓食，向神寻求食物。
The young lions roar after their prey, Even to seek their food from God.
104:22 日头一出，兽便退隐，卧在洞里。
The sun rises: they retreat And lie down in their dens.
104:23 人出去作工，劳碌直到晚上。
Man goes forth to his work And to his labor until evening.
104:24 耶和华阿，你所造的何其多！这些都是你用智慧造成的；遍地满了你的造物。
How many are Your works, O Jehovah! In wisdom You have made all of them; The earth is full of Your creatures.
104:25 那边有海，又大又广；其中有爬物无数，大小活物都有。
Yonder is the sea, great and extensively wide; There the creeping things are, even without number, The small animals with the great.
104:26 那里有船航行；有你所造的鳄鱼，在其中嬉戏。
There the ships go; Leviathan is there, whom You have formed To play in it.
104:27 这一切都仰望你按时给它们食物。
They all wait for You, That You may give them food at the proper time.
104:28 你给它们，它们便拾取；你张开手，它们就饱得美食。
You give to them; they gather. You open Your hand; they are satisfied with good.
104:29 你掩面，它们便惊惶；你收回它们的气，它们就死亡，归于尘土。
You hide Your face; they are troubled. You take away their breath; they perish, And return to their dust.
598
104:30 你发出你的灵，它们便受造，你也使地面更换一新。
You send forth Your Spirit; they are created, And You renew the surface of the ground.
104:31 愿耶和华的荣耀存到永远！愿耶和华因自己所造的喜乐；
May the glory of Jehovah endure forever! May Jehovah rejoice in His works,
104:32 祂看地，地便震动；祂摸山，山就冒烟！
He who looks on the earth, and it trembles; He who touches the mountains, and they smoke!
104:33 我要一生向耶和华唱诗；我还活的时候，要向我神歌颂。
I will sing to Jehovah while I live; I will sing psalms to my God while I yet have being.
104:34 愿祂以我的默念为甘甜；我要因耶和华喜乐。
May my musing be sweet to Him; I will rejoice in Jehovah.
104:35 愿罪人从地上灭绝，愿恶人归于无有。我的魂哪，你要颂赞耶和华。阿利路亚。
May the sinners be consumed from off the earth, And may the wicked be no more. Bless Jehovah, O my soul. Hallelujah.
诗篇 Psalms 第 105 篇
105:1 你们要称谢耶和华，呼求祂的名，在万民中传扬祂的作为。
Give thanks to Jehovah; call upon His name; Make known His deeds among the peoples.
105:2 要向祂唱诗、歌颂，谈论祂一切奇妙的作为。
Sing to Him; sing psalms to Him; Muse upon all His wondrous deeds.
105:3 要因祂的圣名夸耀；寻求耶和华的人，心中应当喜乐。
Glory in His holy name; Let the heart of those who seek Jehovah rejoice.
105:4 要寻求耶和华与祂的能力，时常寻求祂的面。
Seek Jehovah and His strength; Seek His face continually.
105:5 祂仆人亚伯拉罕的后裔，祂所拣选雅各的子孙哪，你们要记念祂所行奇妙的作为，和祂的奇事，并祂口中的判语。
Remember His wondrous deeds, which He has done, His signs and the judgments of His mouth,
105:6
O seed of Abraham His servant, O children of Jacob, His chosen ones.
105:7 祂是耶和华我们的神，全地都有祂的判断。
He is Jehovah our God; His judgments are in all the earth.
105:8 祂记念祂的约，直到永远；记念祂所吩咐的话，直到千代，
He has remembered His covenant forever, The word that He commanded to a thousand generations,
105:9 就是祂与亚伯拉罕所立的约，向以撒所起的誓。
The covenant that He made with Abraham, And His oath unto Isaac.
105:10 祂又将这约向雅各定为律例，向以色列定为永远的约，
And He confirmed it unto Jacob as a statute, Unto Israel as an eternal covenant,
105:11 说，我必将迦南地赐给你，作你们产业的分。
Saying, To you I will give the land of Canaan, The portion of your inheritance;
105:12 当时他们人数有限，非常稀少，并且在那地为寄居的。
When they were men few in number, Indeed very few and strangers in the land.
105:13 他们从这邦游到那邦，从这国行到那国。
And they went about from nation to nation, From one kingdom to another people.
105:14 祂不容什么人欺压他们，为他们的缘故责备君王，
He allowed no man to oppress them; Indeed He rebuked kings for their sake.
105:15 说，不可触犯我所膏的人，也不可加害我的申言者。
Saying, Do not touch My anointed ones, And do My prophets no harm.
105:16 祂命饥荒降在那地上，将所倚靠的粮食，全行断绝。
And He called a famine upon the land; He broke the whole staff of bread.
105:17 祂在他们以先打发一个人去；约瑟被卖为奴仆。
He sent a man before them; Joseph was sold as a servant.
105:18 人用脚镣伤他的脚，他被铁链捆拘。
They afflicted his feet with fetters; He himself was placed in irons.
105:19 耶和华的话试炼他，直等到他所说的应验了。
Until the time when his word came to pass, The word of Jehovah tried him.
105:20 王打发人把他解开，治理众民的，把他释放了；
The king sent men and freed him, Even the ruler of the peoples, and let him go.
105:21 立他作王家之主，掌管王一切所有的，
He made him lord of his house And ruler over all his possessions,
105:22 使他随意捆绑王的臣宰，将智慧教导王的长老。
To imprison his princes at will, And to teach his elders wisdom.
105:23 于是以色列到了埃及，雅各在含地寄居。
Then Israel came into Egypt, And Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham.
105:24 耶和华使祂的百姓极其繁多，使他们比敌人强盛；
And He made His people very fruitful, And caused them to be mightier than their adversaries.
105:25 使敌人的心转去恨祂的百姓，并用诡计待祂的仆人。
He turned their heart to hate His people, To deal craftily with His servants.
599
105:26 祂打发祂的仆人摩西，和祂所拣选的亚伦。
He sent Moses His servant, And Aaron, whom He had chosen.
105:27 他们在敌人中间施行祂的神迹，在含地施行祂的奇事。
They set His signs among them, And wonders in the land of Ham.
105:28 祂打发黑暗，使那地黑暗；他们没有违背祂的话。
He sent darkness and made it dark; And they did not rebel against His words.
105:29 祂叫埃及的水变为血，叫他们的鱼死了。
He turned their waters into blood, And killed their fish.
105:30 在他们的地上，甚至在他们君王的内室，青蛙多多滋生。
Their land teemed with frogs, Even in the chambers of their kings.
105:31 祂说一声，苍蝇就成群而来，并且他们四境之内都有了虱子。
He spoke, and a swarm of flies came; There were gnats within all their borders.
105:32 祂给他们降下冰雹为雨，在他们的地上降下火焰。
He gave them hail for rain, And flaming fire in their land.
105:33 祂也击打他们的葡萄树和无花果树，打坏他们境内的树木。
He struck their vines and their fig trees, And He broke the trees of their borders.
105:34 祂说一声，群蝗和舔蝗就来，不计其数，
He spoke, and the swarming locusts came, And the licking locusts, even without number.
105:35 吃尽了他们地上各样的菜蔬，和土地的出产。
And they ate every herb in their land, And they ate the fruit of their ground.
105:36 祂又击杀他们那地一切的长子，就是他们强壮时头生的。
He struck all the firstborn in their land, The first of all their vigor.
105:37 祂领自己的百姓带银子金子出来，祂支派中没有一个软弱的。
And He brought them out with silver and gold, And there was none among His tribes who stumbled.
105:38 他们出来的时候，埃及人便欢喜；因为埃及人惧怕他们。
Egypt rejoiced at their going forth, For a dread of them had fallen upon them.
105:39 祂铺张云彩当遮盖，夜间使火光照。
He spread a cloud for a covering, And a fire to give light by night.
105:40 他们一求，祂就使鹌鹑飞来，并用天上的粮食，叫他们饱足。
They asked, and He brought quails; And He satisfied them with the bread of heaven.
105:41 祂打开磐石，水就涌出；在干旱之处，水流成河。
He opened the rock, and water gushed forth; It ran in the dry places like a river.
105:42 这都因祂记念祂的圣言，和祂的仆人亚伯拉罕。
For He remembered His holy word And Abraham His servant.
105:43 祂带领百姓欢乐而出，带领选民欢呼前往。
And He brought forth His people with gladness, His chosen ones with a ringing shout.
105:44 祂将列国的地赐给他们，他们便承受众民劳碌得来的，
And He gave them the lands of the nations, And they took possession of the labor of the peoples,
105:45 好使他们谨守祂的律例，遵守祂的律法。阿利路亚。
So that they might keep His statutes And observe His laws. Hallelujah.
诗篇 Psalms 第 106 篇
106:1 阿利路亚。你们要称谢耶和华，因祂本为善，祂的慈爱永远长存。
Hallelujah. Give thanks to Jehovah, for He is good, For His lovingkindness is forever.
106:2 谁能述说耶和华大能的作为？谁能宣告一切赞美祂的话？
Who can utter the mighty acts of Jehovah, Or declare all His praise?
106:3 那些维护公理，常行公义的人，是有福的。
Blessed are those who maintain justice, Who execute righteousness at all times.
106:4 耶和华阿，你用恩惠待你的百姓，求你也用这恩惠记念我；求你用你的救恩眷顾我，
Remember me, O Jehovah, with Your favor toward Your people; Visit me with Your salvation,
106:5 使我得见你的选民享美福，因你国民的喜乐而喜乐，与你的产业一同夸耀。
That I may see the prosperity of Your chosen ones, That I may rejoice in the joy of Your nation, That I may glory with Your inheritance.
106:6 我们与我们的祖宗一同犯罪；我们作了孽，行了恶。
We have sinned with our fathers; We committed iniquity; we have acted wickedly.
106:7 我们的祖宗在埃及不明白你的奇事；他们不记念你丰盛的慈爱，反倒在红海边行了悖逆。
Our fathers in Egypt Did not understand Your wonders; They did not remember the multitude of Your acts of lovingkindness, But rebelled by the sea, at the Red
Sea.
106:8 然而祂因自己的名拯救他们，为要使人知道祂的大能。
But He saved them for His name's sake, That He might make His power known.
106:9 祂斥责红海，海便干了；祂带领他们经过深处，如同经过旷野。
Thus He rebuked the Red Sea, and it dried up; And He led them through the depths as through the wilderness.
106:10 祂拯救他们脱离恨他们之人的手，救赎他们脱离仇敌的手。
And He saved them from the hand of him who hated them, And redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.
106:11 水淹没他们的敌人，没有一个存留。
600
The water then covered their adversaries; Not one of them was left.
106:12 那时他们才信了祂的话，歌唱赞美祂。
Then they believed His words; They sang His praise.
106:13 他们很快就忘了祂的作为，不等候祂的指教，
Soon they forgot His works; They did not wait for His counsel,
106:14 反倒在旷野大起贪欲，在荒地试探神。
But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, And tempted God in the desert.
106:15 祂将他们所求的赐给他们，却使他们的魂衰弱。
And He gave them their request, But He sent leanness into their soul.
106:16 他们又在营中嫉妒摩西，和耶和华的圣者亚伦。
And they were jealous of Moses in the camp And of Aaron, the holy one of Jehovah.
106:17 于是地裂开，吞下大坍，并掩盖亚比兰一党的人。
The earth opened, and it swallowed up Dathan And covered the company of Abiram.
106:18 有火在他们的党中着起，有火焰烧毁了恶人。
And a fire burned among their company; A flame engulfed the wicked.
106:19 他们在何烈山造了牛犊，叩拜铸成的像。
They made a calf in Horeb, And worshipped a molten image.
106:20 如此将他们的荣耀，换为吃草之牛的像。
Thus they exchanged their glory For the image of an ox that eats grass.
106:21 他们竟忘了神他们的救主；祂曾在埃及行大事，
They forgot God their Savior, Who had done great things in Egypt,
106:22 在含地行奇事，在红海边行可畏的事。
Wondrous deeds in the land of Ham, Awesome things by the Red Sea.
106:23 所以祂说要灭绝他们；若非有祂所拣选的摩西站在祂面前，堵住破口，使祂的忿怒转消，不灭绝他们，他们早已灭亡了。
Therefore He said that He would destroy them, And would have, had not Moses His chosen one Stood in the breach before Him To turn away His wrath from
destroying them.
106:24 他们又藐视那可喜爱之地，不信祂的话；
Then they despised the pleasant land; They did not believe in His word;
106:25 反倒在自己帐棚内发怨言，不听耶和华的声音。
Rather they murmured in their tents; They did not listen to the voice of Jehovah.
106:26 所以祂对他们举手起誓，必叫他们倒在旷野，
Therefore He lifted up His hand and swore to them That He would make them fall in the wilderness,
106:27 叫他们的后裔倒在列国之中，分散在各地。
And that He would make their seed fall among the nations, And that He would disperse them among the lands.
106:28 他们又与巴力毗珥连合，且吃了祭死神的物。
Then they joined themselves to Baal-peor, And ate sacrifices offered to the dead.
106:29 这样，他们以所行的惹耶和华发怒，便有瘟疫爆发在他们中间。
Thus they provoked Him to anger by their actions, And the plague broke out among them.
106:30 那时非尼哈站起来干豫，瘟疫才止息。
Then Phinehas stood up and intervened, And the plague was stayed;
106:31 那就算为他的义，世世代代直到永远。
And it has been accounted to him as righteousness From generation to generation unto eternity.
106:32 他们在米利巴水又叫耶和华发怒，甚至摩西也因他们受了亏损；
Then they angered Him at the waters of Meribah, So that it went ill with Moses on account of them;
106:33 是因他们违背祂的灵；摩西用嘴说了急躁的话。
For they rebelled against His Spirit, And he spoke rashly with his lips.
106:34 他们不照耶和华所吩咐的，灭绝外邦民，
They did not destroy the peoples, As Jehovah had commanded them;
106:35 反与他们混杂相合，学习他们的行为，
But they mingled themselves with the nations And learned their practices.
106:36 事奉他们的偶像；这就成了自己的网罗。
And they served their idols, Which became a snare to them.
106:37 他们又把自己的儿女献给鬼魔为祭物，
They also sacrificed their sons And their daughters to demons,
106:38 流无辜人的血，就是自己儿女的血，把他们献给迦南的偶像为祭物；那地就被血污秽了。
And poured out innocent blood, The blood of their sons and daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan; And the land was polluted with bloodshed.
106:39 这样，他们被自己所作的污秽了，在行为上犯了邪淫。
Thus they were defiled by their practices, And went about as harlots by their actions.
106:40 耶和华向祂的百姓发怒，憎恶祂的产业。
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against His people, And He abhorred His inheritance.
106:41 祂将他们交在外邦人的手里：恨他们的人就辖制他们，
And He gave them over into the hand of the nations: And those who hated them ruled over them,
106:42 他们的仇敌也欺压他们，他们就伏在那些人手下。
And their enemies oppressed them, And they were subdued under their hand.
106:43 祂屡次搭救他们，他们却设谋悖逆，就因自己的罪孽降为卑下。
Many times He delivered them, But they were rebellious in their counsel, And they were brought low in their iniquity.
601
106:44 然而祂听见他们呼求的时候，就看顾他们的急难；
Yet He regarded their distress When He heard their cry,
106:45 为他们的缘故记念祂的约，照祂丰盛的慈爱后悔；
And for their sake He remembered His covenant, And repented according to the multitude of His acts of lovingkindness;
106:46 祂也使他们在一切掳掠他们的人面前蒙怜恤。
And He caused them to find compassion With all their captors.
106:47 耶和华我们的神阿，求你拯救我们，从外邦中招聚我们，我们好称谢你的圣名，以赞美你为夸耀。
Save us, O Jehovah our God; And gather us out of the nations, That we may give thanks to Your holy name, That we may glory in Your praise.
106:48 耶和华以色列的神，从亘古直到永远，是当受颂赞的。愿众民都说，阿们。阿利路亚。
Blessed be Jehovah the God of Israel, From eternity to eternity. And let all the people say, Amen. Hallelujah.
诗篇 Psalms 第 107 篇
107:1 你们要称谢耶和华，因祂本为善，祂的慈爱永远长存。
Give thanks to Jehovah, for He is good, For His lovingkindness is forever.
107:2 愿耶和华的赎民说这话，他们是祂从敌人手中所救赎的，
Let the redeemed of Jehovah say so, Whom He redeemed from the hand of the adversary,
107:3 从各地，从东从西，从北从南，所招聚来的。
And gathered out of the lands, From the east and from the west, From the north and from the south.
107:4 他们在旷野，在荒野的路上飘流，寻不见可住的城邑；
They wandered in the wilderness, on the desert way; They found no city of habitation.
107:5 又饥又渴，里面的魂发昏。
Hungry and thirsty, Their soul fainted within them.
107:6 于是他们在患难中哀求耶和华，祂就从他们的祸患中搭救他们；
Then they cried out to Jehovah in their trouble, And He delivered them from their distresses.
107:7 又领他们行走直路，使他们走到可居住的城邑。
And He led them on a straight way That they might come to a city of habitation.
107:8 但愿人因耶和华的慈爱，和祂向世人所行的奇事，都称谢祂。
Let them give thanks to Jehovah for His lovingkindness And for His wondrous deeds to the children of men.
107:9 因祂使干渴的人得以满足，使饥饿的人得饱美物。
For He satisfies the thirsty soul, And the famished soul He fills with good.
107:10 那些坐在黑暗中死荫里的人，被困苦和铁链捆锁，
Some inhabited darkness and the shadow of death, And were bound in affliction and irons,
107:11 是因他们违背神的话语，藐视至高者的指教；
Because they rebelled against the words of God And spurned the counsel of the Most High;
107:12 所以祂用劳苦制伏他们的心；他们跌倒，无人扶助。
Therefore He brought down their heart with labor; They stumbled, and there was no one to help them.
107:13 于是他们在患难中哀求耶和华，祂就从他们的祸患中拯救他们。
Then they cried out to Jehovah in their trouble, And He saved them from their distresses.
107:14 祂从黑暗和死荫里，领他们出来，折断他们的绑索。
He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, And He broke apart their bonds.
107:15 但愿人因耶和华的慈爱，和祂向世人所行的奇事，都称谢祂。
Let them give thanks to Jehovah for His lovingkindness And for His wondrous deeds to the children of men.
107:16 因为祂打破了铜门，砍断了铁闩。
For He breaks down the doors of bronze And cuts down the bars of iron.
107:17 愚妄人因自己过犯的行径，和自己的罪孽受苦。
Some were fools, because of their way of transgression; And because of their iniquities, they were afflicted.
107:18 他们的魂厌恶各样的食物，就临近死门。
Their soul loathed all food, And they drew near to the gates of death.
107:19 于是他们在患难中哀求耶和华，祂就从他们的祸患中拯救他们。
Then they cried out to Jehovah in their trouble, And He saved them out of their distresses.
107:20 祂发出话语医治他们，救他们不见朽坏。
He sent forth His word and healed them, And He delivered them from the pits of destruction .
107:21 但愿人因耶和华的慈爱，和祂向世人所行的奇事，都称谢祂。
Let them give thanks to Jehovah for His lovingkindness And for His wondrous deeds to the children of men.
107:22 愿他们献上感谢祭，用乐歌述说祂的作为。
And let them offer sacrifices of thanksgiving And declare His doings in joyful song.
107:23 那些坐船下到海中，在大水上经理事务的人，
Those who go down to the sea in ships, Conducting business on the mighty waters,
107:24 他们看见耶和华的作为，并祂在深水中的奇事。
These see Jehovah's doings And His wondrous deeds in the deep.
107:25 因祂一吩咐，就兴起狂风，扬起海中的波浪。
For He commanded and raised up a storm wind, And it lifted up the waves of the sea.
107:26 他们上到天空，下到深渊；他们的心因灾难便融化。
They mounted up to the heavens; they went down to the depths; Their soul melted in the calamity.
602
107:27 他们摇摇晃晃，东倒西歪，好像醉酒的人；他们的智慧无法可施。
They reeled and staggered like a drunken man, And were at their wits' end.
107:28 于是他们在患难中哀求耶和华，祂就领他们从祸患中出来。
Then they cried out to Jehovah in their trouble, And He brought them out of their distresses.
107:29 祂使狂风止息，海浪就平静。
He made the storm be still, And the waves of the sea were calm;
107:30 风息浪静，他们便欢喜，祂就引他们到所愿去的港口。
And they rejoiced that they were quiet, And He brought them to the haven they desired.
107:31 但愿人因耶和华的慈爱，和祂向世人所行的奇事，都称谢祂。
Let them give thanks to Jehovah for His lovingkindness And for His wondrous deeds to the children of men.
107:32 愿他们在百姓的大会中尊崇祂，在长老的会集中赞美祂。
And let them exalt Him in the congregation of the people And praise Him in the assembly of the elders.
107:33 祂使江河变为旷野，叫水泉变为干渴之地；
He turns rivers into a wilderness, And springs of water into thirsty ground;
107:34 使多结果实的地变为咸地，这都因其间居民的邪恶。
Fruitful land into a salt flat, Because of the wickedness of those who dwell in it.
107:35 祂使旷野变为水潭，叫旱地变为水泉。
He turns a wilderness into a pool of water, And a dry land into springs of water.
107:36 祂使饥饿的人住在那里，好兴建可住的城邑，
And He makes the hungry dwell there, That they may prepare a city of habitation
107:37 又种田地，栽葡萄园，得着丰盛的出产。
And sow fields and plant vineyards And get a fruitful yield.
107:38 祂又赐福给他们，叫他们大大增多；也不叫他们的牲畜减少。
He also blesses them, and they are multiplied greatly; And He does not let their cattle decrease.
107:39 当他们因暴虐、患难、愁苦，人数减少，并且卑屈，
When they are diminished and bowed down Through oppression, trouble, and sorrow,
107:40 祂使贵胄蒙羞被辱，使他们在荒废无路之地飘流。
He pours contempt on princes, And makes them wander in a pathless waste.
107:41 祂却将穷乏人安置在高处，脱离苦难，使他的家族繁衍，如同羊群。
But He raises the needy man high above affliction And makes his families like flocks.
107:42 正直人看见就喜乐；一切作孽之人都塞口无言。
The upright see it and rejoice; And all iniquity stops its mouth.
107:43 谁有智慧？愿他留意这些事，并思想耶和华的慈爱。
Who is wise? Then let him observe these things And consider the lovingkindness of Jehovah.
诗篇 Psalms 第 108 篇
108:1 神阿，我心坚定；我要以我的荣耀唱诗歌颂。
My heart is fixed, O God; I will sing, indeed I will sing psalms, Even with my glory.
108:2 琴瑟阿，你们当醒起！我要极早醒起。
Awake, O harp and lyre! I will awaken the dawn.
108:3 耶和华阿，我要在众民中称谢你；我要在列邦中歌颂你。
I will give thanks to You among the peoples, O Jehovah; And I will sing psalms to You among the nations.
108:4 因为你的慈爱大过诸天，你的信实达到穹苍。
For Your lovingkindness is higher than the heavens, And Your faithfulness reaches to the sky.
108:5 神阿，愿你被高举，过于诸天；愿你的荣耀遍及全地。
Be exalted above the heavens, O God; And let Your glory be above all the earth.
108:6 求你用右手拯救我们，应允我们，好叫你所亲爱的人得救。
That Your beloved ones may be delivered, Save with Your right hand, and answer us.
108:7 神已经在祂的圣别中说，我要欢乐；我要分开示剑，丈量疏割谷。
God has spoken in His holiness: I will exult; I will divide Shechem And measure out the Valley of Succoth.
108:8 基列是我的；玛拿西是我的；以法莲是我的头盔；犹大是我的杖；
Gilead is Mine; Manasseh is Mine; And Ephraim is the helmet for My head; Judah is My scepter.
108:9 摩押是我的沐浴盆；我要向以东抛鞋；我必向非利士夸胜欢呼。
Moab is My washbowl; Upon Edom I will cast My sandal; Over Philistia I will shout.
108:10 谁能领我进坚固城？谁能引我到以东地？
Who will bring me into the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom?
108:11 神阿，你不是丢弃了我们么？神阿，你不和我们的军兵一同出战么？
Will not You, O God, who rejected us And who did not go forth, O God, with our armies?
108:12 求你帮助我们脱离敌人，因为人的拯救是枉然的。
Give us help from the adversary, For salvation by man is vain.
108:13 我们因神才得奋勇行事，践踏我们敌人的就是祂。
In God we will do valiantly, And it is He who will tread down our adversaries.
603
诗篇 Psalms 第 109 篇
109:1 我所赞美的神阿，求你不要闭口不言；
O God of my praise, do not be silent;
109:2 因为恶人的嘴和诡诈人的口，已经张开攻击我；他们用撒谎的舌头对我说话。
For the mouth of the wicked man and the mouth of deceit are opened against me; They speak to me with a lying tongue.
109:3 他们围绕我，说怨恨的话，又无故的攻打我。
And with words of hatred they have surrounded me And have fought against me without cause.
109:4 他们与我为敌以报我爱，但我专心祷告。
In return for my love they have become my adversaries, But I am all prayer.
109:5 他们向我以恶报善，以恨报爱。
And they have set against me evil in return for good And hatred in return for my love.
109:6 愿你派一个恶人辖制他，派一个对头站在他右边。
Appoint a wicked man over him, And let an adversary stand at his right hand.
109:7 他受审判的时候，愿他被定为恶；愿他的祷告，反成为罪。
When he is judged, let him come forth wicked; And let his prayer be counted as sin.
109:8 愿他的年日短少；愿别人得他的职分。
May his days be few; May another take his office.
109:9 愿他的儿女为孤儿，他的妻子为寡妇。
May his children be orphans, And his wife a widow.
109:10 愿他的儿女飘流讨饭，从他们荒凉之处出来求食。
And may his children wander all about and beg, And may they seek food far from their desolated ruins.
109:11 愿债主设下网罗夺取他一切所有的，愿外人抢走他劳碌得来的。
May the creditor seize all that he has, And may strangers plunder the fruit of his labor.
109:12 愿无人向他延施怜悯；愿无人恩待他的孤儿。
May there be no one to extend him mercy, Nor anyone to be kind to his orphans.
109:13 愿他的后人断绝；愿他的名字在下代就被涂抹。
May his posterity be cut off; In the generation following may his name be blotted out.
109:14 愿他祖宗的罪孽被耶和华记念，愿他母亲的罪过不被涂抹。
May his father's iniquity be remembered before Jehovah, And may his mother's sin not be blotted out.
109:15 愿这些罪常在耶和华面前，以致祂将他们的名号从地上剪除；
May they be before Jehovah continually, So that He may cut off the memory of them from the earth;
109:16 因为他未曾想过要施慈爱，却逼迫困苦、穷乏、和伤心的人，要把他们治死。
Because he did not remember to show lovingkindness, But persecuted the poor and needy and brokenhearted, To put them to death.
109:17 他爱咒骂，咒骂就临到他；他不喜爱祝福，祝福就远离他。
Indeed he loved cursing, so it came on him; And he took no delight in blessing, so it was far from him.
109:18 他拿咒骂当衣服穿上，这咒骂就如水进入他里面，像油进入他的骨头。
And he clothed himself with cursing like his garment, So it came into his inward parts like water And into his bones like oil.
109:19 愿这咒骂当他遮身的衣服，当他常束的腰带。
Let it be to him like the cloak that he wraps around himself, And as a belt with which he constantly girds himself.
109:20 这就是我的对头，和说恶言攻击我的人，从耶和华那里所受的报应。
This is the reward from Jehovah for my adversaries And for those who speak evil against my soul.
109:21 主耶和华阿，求你为你名的缘故恩待我；因你的慈爱美好，求你搭救我；
But You, O Jehovah Lord, deal with me, For Your name's sake; Because Your lovingkindness is good, deliver me.
109:22 因为我困苦穷乏，内心受伤。
For I am poor and needy, And my heart is wounded within me.
109:23 我如日影渐渐偏斜而去；我如蝗虫被抖掉。
I am gone like a shadow that declines; I am shaken off like the locust.
109:24 我因禁食，膝骨软弱，我身上的肉也消瘦无油。
My knees wobble through fasting, And my flesh has become lean, without fatness.
109:25 我也成了他们所羞辱的：他们看见我，便摇头。
I have also become a reproach to them: When they see me, they shake their heads.
109:26 耶和华我的神阿，求你帮助我；求你照你的慈爱拯救我；
Help me, O Jehovah my God; Save me according to Your lovingkindness;
109:27 他们就知道这是你的手，是你耶和华行了这事。
And they will know that this is Your hand, That it is You, O Jehovah, who have done it.
109:28 任凭他们咒骂，惟愿你赐福；他们几时起来，就必蒙羞，你的仆人却要欢喜。
Let them curse, but You bless; When they arise, they will be put to shame, And Your servant will rejoice.
109:29 愿我的对头披戴羞辱，愿他们以自己的羞愧为外袍遮身。
May my adversaries be clothed with humiliation, And may they wrap themselves with their own shame as with a mantle.
109:30 我要用口极力称谢耶和华，我要在众人中间赞美祂；
I will give much thanks to Jehovah with my mouth, And in the midst of the multitude I will praise Him;
109:31 因为祂站在穷乏人的右边，要救他脱离那些审判他魂的人。
For He stands at the right hand of the needy To save him from those who judge his soul.
604
诗篇 Psalms 第 110 篇
110:1 耶和华对我主说，你坐在我的右边，等我使你的仇敌作你的脚凳。
Jehovah declares to my Lord, Sit at My right hand Until I make Your enemies Your footstool.
110:2 耶和华必从锡安伸出你能力的杖来：你要在你的仇敌中间掌权。
Jehovah will send forth The scepter of Your strength from Zion: Rule in the midst of Your enemies.
110:3 当你争战的日子，你的民要以奉献为彩饰，甘心献上自己。你的少年人对你必如清晨的甘露。
Your people will offer themselves willingly In the day of Your warfare, In the splendor of their consecration. Your young men will be to You Like the dew from the
womb of the dawn.
110:4 耶和华起了誓，必不后悔；祂说，你是照着麦基洗德的等次，永远为祭司。
Jehovah has sworn, And He will not change: You are a Priest forever According to the order of Melchizedek.
110:5 主在你右边；祂发怒的日子，必打伤列王。
The Lord is at Your right hand; He will shatter kings in the day of His anger.
110:6 祂要在列邦中施行审判，使那处满了尸首；祂要在大地上打伤仇敌的头。
He will execute judgment among the nations; He will fill the place with corpses; He will shatter the head Over a great land.
110:7 祂要喝路旁的河水；因此祂必抬起头来。
He will drink from the brook by the way; Therefore He will lift up His head.
诗篇 Psalms 第 111 篇
111:1 阿利路亚！我要在正直人的聚集中，并在大会中，全心称谢耶和华。
Hallelujah! I will give thanks to Jehovah with all my heart In the council of the upright and in the assembly.
111:2 耶和华的作为本为大，凡喜爱祂作为的都必究察。
Great are the works of Jehovah, And sought out by all who delight in them.
111:3 祂所行的是尊荣和威严，祂的公义存到永远。
His work is majesty and splendor, And His righteousness endures forever.
111:4 祂行了奇事，使人记念；耶和华有恩典，有怜恤。
He has caused His wondrous deeds to be remembered; Jehovah is gracious and compassionate.
111:5 祂赐粮食给敬畏祂的人；祂永远记念祂的约。
He gives food to those who fear Him; He remembers His covenant forever.
111:6 祂向百姓显出祂作为的大能，把列国赐给他们为业。
He has shown His people the power of His works By giving them the heritage of the nations.
111:7 祂手所作的，是真实公平；祂的训辞都是确实的：
The works of His hands are truth and justice; All His precepts are sure:
111:8 是永永远远坚定的，是按真实正直施行的。
They are maintained forever and ever, They are executed in truth and uprightness.
111:9 祂向百姓施行救赎；祂命定祂的约，直到永远；祂的名圣别可畏。
He has sent redemption to His people; He has commanded His covenant forever; Holy and awesome is His name.
111:10 敬畏耶和华是智慧的开端；凡实行祂训辞的，便为明智；赞美祂的话存到永远。
The fear of Jehovah is the beginning of wisdom; All who practice His precepts have a good understanding. His praise endures forever.
诗篇 Psalms 第 112 篇
112:1 阿利路亚！敬畏耶和华，甚喜爱祂命令的，这人便为有福。
Hallelujah! Blessed is the man who fears Jehovah, Who delights greatly in His commandments.
112:2 他的后裔在地上必强盛；正直人的后代必蒙福。
His seed will be mighty on the earth; The generation of the upright will be blessed.
112:3 他家中有赀财和财富，他的义存到永远。
Wealth and riches are in his house, And his righteousness endures forever.
112:4 正直人在黑暗中，有光向他出现；他有恩惠，有怜恤，有公义。
Light in the darkness arises to the upright; They are gracious and compassionate and righteous.
112:5 施恩与人，借贷与人的，这人必得亨通；他被审判的时候，要诉明自己的冤。
It is well with the man who is gracious and lends; He will maintain his cause in judgment.
112:6 因为他永不动摇；义人必被记念，直到永远。
For he will never be moved; The righteous man will be remembered forever.
112:7 他必不怕凶恶的信息；他心坚定，信靠耶和华。
He will not be afraid of evil tidings; His heart is steadfast, trusting in Jehovah.
112:8 他的心得了扶持，总不惧怕，直到他看见敌人遭报。
His heart is sustained, he is not afraid, Until he sees what should happen to his adversaries.
112:9 他分施赒济贫穷；他的义存到永远。他的角必被高举，而有尊荣。
He has scattered abroad; he has given to the needy; His righteousness endures forever; His horn will be exalted with honor.
112:10 恶人看见便恼恨，必咬牙而融化；恶人的心愿要归灭绝。
The wicked man will see it and be angry; He will gnash his teeth and melt away; The desire of the wicked will perish.
605
诗篇 Psalms 第 113 篇
113:1 阿利路亚！耶和华的仆人哪，你们要赞美，赞美耶和华的名。
Hallelujah! Praise, you servants of Jehovah, Praise the name of Jehovah.
113:2 耶和华的名，是当受颂赞的，从今时直到永远。
Let the name of Jehovah be blessed, From now and to eternity.
113:3 从日出之地到日落之处，耶和华的名是应当赞美的。
From the rising of the sun to its setting The name of Jehovah is to be praised.
113:4 耶和华超乎万国之上，祂的荣耀高过诸天。
Jehovah is high above all the nations, And His glory is above the heavens.
113:5 谁像耶和华我们的神呢？祂坐在至高之处，
Who is like Jehovah our God, Who has set His throne on high,
113:6 降卑自己，观看天上地上的事。
Who humbles Himself to behold The heavens and the earth?
113:7 祂从灰尘里抬举贫寒人，从粪堆中提拔穷乏人；
He raises the poor from the dust; From the ash heap He lifts the needy;
113:8 使他们与尊贵人同坐，就是与祂百姓中的尊贵人同坐。
That He may seat them with princes, With the princes of His people.
113:9 祂使不能生育的妇人安居家中，作多子的快乐母亲。阿利路亚！
He causes the barren woman to keep house As a joyful mother of children. Hallelujah.
诗篇 Psalms 第 114 篇
114:1 以色列出了埃及，雅各家离开说异语之民；
When Israel went forth from Egypt, The house of Jacob from among a people of unintelligible speech,
114:2 那时犹大成为祂的圣所，以色列成为祂所治理的国。
Judah became His sanctuary, Israel, His dominion.
114:3 沧海看见就奔逃，约但河也倒流。
The sea saw and fled; The Jordan turned back.
114:4 大山踊跃如公羊，小山踊跃如羊羔。
The mountains skipped like rams, The hills, like lambs.
114:5 沧海阿，你为何奔逃？约但河阿，你为何倒流？
What troubles you, O sea, that you flee? O Jordan, that you turn back?
114:6 大山哪，你为何踊跃如公羊？小山哪，你为何踊跃如羊羔？
O mountains, that you skip like rams? O hills, like lambs?
114:7 大地阿，你见了主的面，就是雅各神的面，便震动；
Tremble at the presence of the Lord, O earth, At the presence of the God of Jacob,
114:8 祂叫磐石变为水池，叫坚石变为水泉。
Who turns the rock into a pool of water, The flint into a fountain of water.
诗篇 Psalms 第 115 篇
115:1 耶和华阿，荣耀不要归与我们，不要归与我们，要因你的慈爱和真实，归与你的名。
Not to us, O Jehovah, not to us, But to Your name give glory, For the sake of Your lovingkindness and Your truth.
115:2 为何容外邦人说，他们的神在那里呢？
Why should the nations say, Where then is their God?
115:3 然而我们的神在天上；祂随自己的喜悦行事。
But our God is in the heavens; He does whatever He pleases.
115:4 他们的偶像不过是金的银的，是人手所造的；
Their idols are mere silver and gold, The work of human hands.
115:5 有口却不能言，有眼却不能看，
They have mouths, but they do not speak; They have eyes, but they do not see.
115:6 有耳却不能听，有鼻却不能闻，
They have ears, but they do not hear; They have noses, but they do not smell.
115:7 有手却不能摸，有脚却不能走，喉咙也不能出声。
They have hands, but they do not feel; They have feet, but they do not walk; They make no sound in their throat.
115:8 造它们的，并一切倚靠它们的，都要和它们一样。
Those who make them, All who trust in them, Are like them.
115:9 以色列阿，当信靠耶和华；祂是他们的帮助，和他们的盾牌。
O Israel, trust in Jehovah. He is their help and their shield.
115:10 亚伦家阿，当信靠耶和华；祂是他们的帮助，和他们的盾牌。
O house of Aaron, trust in Jehovah. He is their help and their shield.
115:11 你们敬畏耶和华的，当信靠耶和华；祂是他们的帮助，和他们的盾牌。
O you who fear Jehovah, trust in Jehovah. He is their help and their shield.
606
115:12 耶和华向来记念我们；祂还要赐福给我们，要赐福给以色列家，赐福给亚伦家；
Jehovah has been mindful of us; He will bless us; He will bless the house of Israel; He will bless the house of Aaron;
115:13 凡敬畏耶和华的，无论大小，祂必赐福给他们。
He will bless those who fear Jehovah, Both small and great.
115:14 愿耶和华叫你们和你们的子孙，日见加增。
May Jehovah give you increase, Both you and your children.
115:15 愿你们蒙造天地之耶和华的福。
May you be blessed of Jehovah, Maker of heaven and earth.
115:16 天是耶和华的天；地，祂却给了世人。
The heavens are the heavens of Jehovah, But He has given the earth to the children of men.
115:17 死人不能赞美耶和华；下到寂静中的，也都不能。
The dead do not praise Jehovah, Nor do any that go down into silence.
115:18 但我们要颂赞耶和华，从今时直到永远。阿利路亚。
But we will bless Jehovah From now and to eternity. Hallelujah.
诗篇 Psalms 第 116 篇
116:1 我爱耶和华，因为祂听了我的声音，我的恳求；
I love Jehovah because He hears My voice, my supplications,
116:2 祂既向我侧耳，我一生要呼求祂。
Because He inclines His ear to me; Therefore I will call upon Him all my days.
116:3 死亡的绳索围绕我，阴间的痛苦临到我；我遭遇患难愁苦。
The bonds of death encompassed me, And the distresses of Sheol fell upon me; I fell upon trouble and sorrow.
116:4 然而我呼求耶和华的名。耶和华阿，求你救我的性命。
But I called upon the name of Jehovah. O Jehovah, I pray, deliver my soul.
116:5 耶和华有恩典，有公义；我们的神有怜恤。
Jehovah is gracious and righteous, Indeed our God is compassionate.
116:6 耶和华保护愚蒙人：我落到卑微的地步，祂救了我。
Jehovah preserves the simple: I was brought low, and He saved me.
116:7 我的魂哪，你要仍归安息，因为耶和华厚待了你。
Return to your rest, O my soul; For Jehovah has dealt bountifully with you.
116:8 主阿，你救我的性命免了死亡，救我的眼免了流泪，救我的脚免了跌倒。
For You have delivered my soul from death, My eyes from tears, My feet from stumbling.
116:9 我要在耶和华面前，行在活人之地。
I will walk before Jehovah In the land of the living.
116:10 我信，所以我说话；我受了极大的困苦。
I believed, therefore I spoke; I was afflicted greatly.
116:11 我曾急促的说，人都是说谎的。
I said in my haste, All men are liars.
116:12 我拿什么回报耶和华对我的一切厚待？
What shall I return to Jehovah For all His benefits toward me?
116:13 我要举起救恩的杯，呼求耶和华的名。
I will take up the cup of salvation And call upon the name of Jehovah.
116:14 哦，我要在祂众民面前，向耶和华还我的愿。
I will pay my vows to Jehovah, Oh, in the presence of all His people.
116:15 在耶和华眼中看虔诚人的死，极为宝贵。
Precious in the sight of Jehovah Is the death of His faithful ones.
116:16 耶和华阿，我真是你的仆人；我是你的仆人，是你婢女的儿子；你已经解开我的绑索。
Oh, Jehovah! Surely I am Your servant; I am Your servant, the son of Your female servant; You have loosed my bonds.
116:17 我要将感谢祭献给你，又要呼求耶和华的名。
To You I will offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving, And I will call upon the name of Jehovah.
116:18 哦，我要在祂众民面前，向耶和华还我的愿；
I will pay my vows to Jehovah, Oh, in the presence of all His people,
116:19 我要在耶和华殿的院内，耶路撒冷阿，就是在你中间，还我的愿。阿利路亚。
In the courts of the house of Jehovah, In the midst of you, O Jerusalem. Hallelujah.
诗篇 Psalms 第 117 篇
117:1 万国阿，你们都当赞美耶和华；万民哪，你们都当称颂祂。
Praise Jehovah, all you nations; Laud Him, all you peoples.
117:2 因为祂向我们大施慈爱；耶和华的信实，存到永远。阿利路亚。
For His lovingkindness is great toward us, And the faithfulness of Jehovah is forever. Hallelujah.
607
诗篇 Psalms 第 118 篇
118:1 你们要称谢耶和华，因祂本为善，祂的慈爱永远长存。
Give thanks to Jehovah, for He is good, For His lovingkindness is forever.
118:2 愿以色列说，祂的慈爱永远长存。
Let Israel say, His lovingkindness is forever.
118:3 愿亚伦家说，祂的慈爱永远长存。
Let the house of Aaron say, His lovingkindness is forever.
118:4 愿敬畏耶和华的说，祂的慈爱永远长存。
Let those who fear Jehovah say, His lovingkindness is forever.
118:5 我在急难中呼求耶和华，耶和华就应允我，把我安置在宽阔之处。
Out of my distress I called upon Jehovah; Jehovah answered me and set me in a place broad and free.
118:6 有耶和华帮助我，我必不惧怕；人能把我怎么样呢？
Jehovah is for me; I will not be afraid. What can man do to me?
118:7 有耶和华帮助我，作我的帮助者，我必看见那恨我的人遭报。
Jehovah is for me as my Helper, And I will see what should happen to those who hate me.
118:8 投靠耶和华，胜过倚靠人。
It is better to take refuge in Jehovah Than to trust in man.
118:9 投靠耶和华，胜过倚靠尊贵人。
It is better to take refuge in Jehovah Than to trust in princes.
118:10 万民围绕我；我在耶和华的名里，必剿灭他们！
All nations surrounded me; In the name of Jehovah I indeed cut them down!
118:11 他们围绕我，确实围绕我；我在耶和华的名里，必剿灭他们！
They surrounded me; yes, they surrounded me; In the name of Jehovah I indeed cut them down!
118:12 他们如同蜜蜂围绕我，必像烧荆棘的火被扑灭；我在耶和华的名里，必剿灭他们！
They surrounded me like bees; They were extinguished like a fire of thorns; In the name of Jehovah I indeed cut them down!
118:13 人推撞我，要叫我跌倒，但耶和华帮助了我。
I was pushed hard that I might fall; But Jehovah helped me.
118:14 耶和华是我的力量，是我的诗歌，祂也成了我的拯救。
Jehovah is my strength and my song, And He has become my salvation.
118:15 在义人的帐棚里，有欢呼得拯救的声音。耶和华的右手施展大能；
The voice of rejoicing and salvation Is in the tents of the righteous. The right hand of Jehovah does valiantly;
118:16 耶和华的右手高举；耶和华的右手施展大能。
The right hand of Jehovah is exalted; The right hand of Jehovah does valiantly.
118:17 我必不至于死，仍要存活，并要述说耶和华的作为。
I will not die, but live, And declare the works of Jehovah.
118:18 耶和华虽严严的惩治我，却没有将我交于死亡。
Jehovah has severely chastened me, But He has not given me over to death.
118:19 你们要给我敞开义门：我要进去，称谢耶和华。
Open to me the gates of righteousness: I will enter in through them; I will give thanks to Jehovah.
118:20 这是耶和华的门；义人要从这门进去。
This is the gate of Jehovah; The righteous shall enter in through it.
118:21 我要称谢你，因为你已经应允我，并且成了我的拯救。
I will give thanks to You, for You have answered me And have become my salvation.
118:22 匠人所弃的石头，已成了房角的头块石头。
The stone which the builders rejected Has become the head of the corner.
118:23 这是耶和华所作的，在我们眼中看为希奇。
This is from Jehovah; It is wonderful in our sight.
118:24 这是耶和华所定的日子；我们在其中要欢腾喜乐。
This is the day that Jehovah has made; Let us exult and rejoice in it.
118:25 耶和华阿，求你拯救！耶和华阿，求你使我们亨通！
O Jehovah, do save, we pray! O Jehovah, do send prosperity, we pray!
118:26 在耶和华名里来的，是当受颂赞的；我们从耶和华的殿中，为你们祝福。
Blessed is He who comes in the name of Jehovah; We bless you from the house of Jehovah.
118:27 耶和华是神，祂光照了我们；当用绳索把节期的祭牲拴住，牵到坛角那里。
Jehovah is God, And He has given us light; Bind the sacrifice of the feast with cords To the horns of the altar.
118:28 你是我的神，我要称谢你；你是我的神，我要尊崇你。
You are my God, and I give thanks to You. You are my God; I will exalt You.
118:29 你们要称谢耶和华，因祂本为善；祂的慈爱永远长存。
Give thanks to Jehovah, for He is good, For His lovingkindness is forever.
诗篇 Psalms 第 119 篇
119:1 行径完全，遵行耶和华律法的，这样的人是有福的。
Blessed are those whose way is perfect, Who walk in the law of Jehovah.
608
119:2 遵守祂的法度，全心寻求祂的，这样的人是有福的。
Blessed are those who keep His testimonies, Who seek Him with all their heart.
119:3 他们不作不义的事，惟遵行祂的道路。
Surely they do no wrong; They walk in His ways.
119:4 耶和华阿，你曾将你的训辞吩咐我们，要我们殷勤遵守。
You have commanded that Your precepts Be diligently kept.
119:5 但愿我的行径坚定，得以遵守你的律例！
Oh that my ways may be established So as to keep Your statutes!
119:6 我看重你的一切诫命，就不至于羞愧。
Then I will not be put to shame, When I regard all Your commandments.
119:7 我学了你公义的典章，就以正直的心称谢你。
I will give thanks to You with uprightness of heart When I learn Your righteous ordinances.
119:8 我必守你的律例；求你总不要丢弃我。
I will keep Your statutes; Do not utterly forsake me.
119:9 少年人用什么使他的行径纯洁呢？是要遵行你的话。
With what should a young man keep his way pure? By guarding it according to Your word.
119:10 我全心寻求了你，求你不要叫我偏离你的诫命。
With all my heart I have sought You; Do not let me wander from Your commandments.
119:11 我将你的话珍藏在心里，免得我得罪你。
In my heart I have treasured up Your word That I might not sin against You.
119:12 耶和华阿，你是当受颂赞的；求你将你的律例教训我。
Blessed are You, O Jehovah; Teach me Your statutes.
119:13 我用嘴唇述说你口中的一切典章。
With my lips I have declared All the ordinances of Your mouth.
119:14 我喜悦你法度的道路，如同喜悦一切的财物。
I have rejoiced in the way of Your testimonies As much as in all riches.
119:15 我要默想你的训辞，看重你的道路。
I will muse upon Your precepts And regard Your ways.
119:16 我要在你的律例中自乐；我不忘记你的话。
I will take delight in Your statutes; I will not forget Your word.
119:17 求你厚待你的仆人，使我存活，并且遵守你的话。
Deal bountifully with Your servant that I may live And keep Your word.
119:18 求你开我的眼睛，使我看出你律法中的奇妙。
Open my eyes that I may behold Wondrous things out of Your law.
119:19 我是在地上寄居的；求你不要向我隐瞒你的诫命。
I am a sojourner in the earth; Do not hide Your commandments from me.
119:20 我时刻羡慕你的典章，甚至心碎。
My soul is crushed with longing For Your ordinances at all times.
119:21 偏离你诫命，受咒诅的骄傲人，你已经责备他们。
You have rebuked the proud, the cursed, Who wander from Your commandments.
119:22 求你除掉我所受的羞辱和藐视，因我遵守你的法度。
Roll away from me reproach and contempt, For I have kept Your testimonies.
119:23 虽有首领坐着妄论我，你仆人却默想你的律例。
Princes as well have sat and spoken against me, But Your servant mused upon Your statutes.
119:24 你的法度是我所喜乐的，是我的谋士。
Also Your testimonies are my delight; They are my counselors.
119:25 我的性命几乎归于尘土；求你照你的话将我救活。
My soul clings to the dust; Enliven me according to Your word.
119:26 我述说我的行径，你应允了我；求你将你的律例教训我。
I have recounted my ways, and You have answered me; Teach me Your statutes.
119:27 求你使我明白你训辞的道路，我就默想你的奇事。
Cause me to understand the way of Your precepts, And I will muse upon Your wondrous deeds.
119:28 我的心因愁苦而融化；求你照你的话使我坚立。
My soul melts because of grief; Strengthen me according to Your word.
119:29 求你使我离开虚谎的道路，开恩将你的律法赐给我。
Remove from me the way of falsehood, And graciously grant me Your law.
119:30 我拣选了忠信的道路，将你的典章摆在我面前。
I have chosen the way of faithfulness; Your ordinances I have set before me.
119:31 我紧紧跟随你的法度；耶和华阿，求你不要叫我羞愧。
I cling to Your testimonies; O Jehovah, do not put me to shame.
119:32 你既开广我的心，我就奔跑你诫命的道路。
I run the way of Your commandments, For You enlarge my heart.
119:33 耶和华阿，求你将你律例的道路指教我，我必遵守到底。
Teach me, O Jehovah, the way of Your statutes; And I will keep it to the end.
119:34 求你赐我悟性，我便遵守你的律法；且要全心谨守。
Give me understanding, and I will observe Your law; Indeed I will keep it with all my heart.
609
119:35 求你使我行在你诫命的道路上，因为我喜悦这道路。
Cause me to go on the path of Your commandments, For in it I delight.
119:36 求你使我的心趋向你的法度，不趋向不义之财。
Incline my heart to Your testimonies And not to unjust gain.
119:37 求你叫我转眼不看虚假，叫我在你的道路中活着。
Turn my eyes from beholding vanity, And enliven me in Your ways.
119:38 求你坚定你对仆人的话，这话是叫人敬畏你。
Confirm to Your servant Your word, Which is for fearing You.
119:39 求你使我所怕的羞辱远离我；因你的典章本为美。
Turn away my reproach, which I fear; For Your ordinances are good.
119:40 看哪，我羡慕你的训辞；求你使我在你的公义中活着。
Behold, I have longed after Your precepts; Enliven me in Your righteousness.
119:41 耶和华阿，愿你照你的话，使你的慈爱，就是你的救恩，临到我身上。
May Your lovingkindness also come to me, O Jehovah, Your salvation according to Your word.
119:42 我就有话回答那羞辱我的，因我信靠你的话。
Thus I will have an answer for him who reproaches me, For I trust in Your word.
119:43 求你叫真理的话，总不离开我口，因我仰望了你的典章。
And do not take the word of truth utterly from my mouth, For I have hoped in Your ordinances.
119:44 我要常守你的律法，直到永永远远。
Thus I will keep Your law continually, Forever and ever.
119:45 我要行在宽阔之地，因我寻求了你的训辞。
And I will walk at liberty, For I have sought Your precepts.
119:46 我也要在君王面前，论说你的法度，并不以为耻。
I will also speak of Your testimonies before kings And not be ashamed.
119:47 我要在你的诫命中自乐，这些诫命是我所爱的。
And I will take delight in Your commandments, Which I love.
119:48 我要向你的诫命举手，这些诫命是我所爱的；我也要默想你的律例。
And I will lift up my hand to Your commandments, which I love; And I will muse upon Your statutes.
119:49 求你记念向你仆人所说的话，你曾使我在这话中有盼望。
Remember the word to Your servant In which You have made me hope.
119:50 这是我在患难中的安慰，因为你的话将我救活。
This is my comfort in my affliction, For Your word has enlivened me.
119:51 骄傲的人极力讥诮我；我却没有偏离你的律法。
The proud have derided me greatly; I have not swerved from Your law.
119:52 耶和华阿，我记念你从古以来的典章，就得了安慰。
I have remembered Your ordinances from long ago, O Jehovah, and have comforted myself.
119:53 我因恶人离弃你的律法，就怒气发作，犹如火烧。
Raging indignation seizes me because of the wicked, Who forsake Your law.
119:54 在我寄居的住所，你的律例成了我的诗歌。
Your statutes have become my songs of praise In the house of my pilgrimage.
119:55 耶和华阿，我夜间记念你的名，遵守你的律法。
I have remembered Your name In the night, O Jehovah, And have kept Your law.
119:56 我所以如此，是因我守了你的训辞。
This has been mine, That I have kept Your precepts.
119:57 耶和华是我的业分；我曾说，我要遵守你的言语。
Jehovah is my portion; I have promised to keep Your words.
119:58 我全心求过你的恩；愿你照你的话恩待我。
I entreated Your favor with my whole heart; Be gracious to me according to Your word.
119:59 我筹算自己的道路，就转步归向你的法度。
I considered my ways And turned my feet toward Your testimonies.
119:60 我急忙遵守你的诫命，并不迟延。
I hurried and did not delay To keep Your commandments.
119:61 恶人的绳索缠绕我，我却没有忘记你的律法。
The cords of the wicked surround me, But I have not forgotten Your law.
119:62 我因你公义的典章，半夜起来称谢你。
At midnight I rise up to give thanks to You Because of Your righteous ordinances.
119:63 凡敬畏你，守你训辞的人，我都与他作伴。
I am a companion to all who fear You And to those who keep Your precepts.
119:64 耶和华阿，你的慈爱遍满大地；求你将你的律例教训我。
Your lovingkindness, O Jehovah, fills the earth; Teach me Your statutes.
119:65 耶和华阿，你向来是照你的话善待仆人。
You have dealt well with Your servant, O Jehovah, according to Your word.
119:66 求你将明辨和知识教训我，因我相信你的诫命。
Teach me proper discernment and knowledge, For I believe in Your commandments.
119:67 我受苦以先，走迷了路；现在却遵守你的话。
Before I was afflicted, I went astray; But now I keep Your word.
610
119:68 你本为善，所行的也善；求你将你的律例教训我。
You are good and One who does good; Teach me Your statutes.
119:69 骄傲人编造谎言攻击我；我却要全心守你的训辞。
The proud have plastered lies against me; With my whole heart I will keep Your precepts.
119:70 他们的心迟钝，如蒙脂油；我却以你的律法为乐。
Their heart is heavy as with fat; But I delight in Your law.
119:71 我受苦是与我有益，为要使我学习你的律例。
It is good for me that I have been afflicted, That I might learn Your statutes.
119:72 你口中的律法与我有益，胜过千万的金银。
The law of Your mouth is better to me Than thousands of pieces of gold and silver.
119:73 你的手造作我、建立我；求你赐我悟性，可以学习你的诫命。
Your hands have made me and fashioned me; Give me understanding that I may learn Your commandments.
119:74 敬畏你的人看见我就喜乐，因我仰望你的话。
Those who fear You will see me and rejoice, For I have hoped in Your word.
119:75 耶和华阿，我知道你的判语是公义的；你使我受苦，是以信实待我。
I know, O Jehovah, that Your judgments are righteous And that in faithfulness You afflicted me.
119:76 求你照着你对仆人所说的话，以慈爱安慰我。
Let Your lovingkindness, I beseech You, be my comfort, According to Your word to Your servant.
119:77 愿你的怜恤临到我，使我存活；因你的律法是我的喜乐。
Let Your compassions come to me, and I will live; For Your law is my delight.
119:78 愿骄傲人蒙羞，因为他们以谎言屈枉我；但我要默想你的训辞。
Let the proud be put to shame, for they have subverted my cause with a lie; But I will muse upon Your precepts.
119:79 愿敬畏你的人归向我，他们就知道你的法度。
Let those who fear You turn to me, And they will know Your testimonies.
119:80 愿我的心在你的律例上完全，使我不至蒙羞。
May my heart be perfect in Your statutes, That I may not be put to shame.
119:81 我的魂因渴想你的救恩以致衰竭；我仰望你的话语。
My soul faints while longing for Your salvation; I hope in Your word.
119:82 我的眼因盼望你的话语以致昏蒙，我说，你几时才安慰我？
My eyes faint while longing for Your word, As I say, When will You comfort me?
119:83 我好像烟薰的皮袋，但我不忘记你的律例。
For I have become like a wineskin in the smoke; But I do not forget Your statutes.
119:84 你仆人的日子有多少？你几时才向逼迫我的人施行公理呢？
How many are the days of Your servant? When will You execute justice upon my persecutors?
119:85 不依从你律法的骄傲人，为我掘了坑。
The proud have dug pits for me, Those who are not according to Your law.
119:86 你的诫命尽都信实；他们诡诈的逼迫我；求你帮助我。
All Your commandments are faithful; They persecute me falsely; help me.
119:87 他们几乎把我从地上灭绝；但我没有离弃你的训辞。
They have almost consumed me upon the earth; But I have not forsaken Your precepts.
119:88 求你照你的慈爱将我救活，我就遵守你口中的法度。
Enliven me according to Your lovingkindness, And I will keep the testimony of Your mouth.
119:89 耶和华阿，你的话立定在天，直到永远。
Forever, O Jehovah, Does Your word stand firm in heaven.
119:90 你的信实存到万代；你坚定了地，地就长存。
Your faithfulness is from generation to generation; You established the earth, and it abides.
119:91 万物照你的判语存到今日，因为它们都是你的仆役。
They abide to this day according to Your ordinances, For all things are Your servants.
119:92 我若不是以你的律法为乐，早就在患难中灭绝了。
Unless Your law had been my delight, I would have perished in my affliction.
119:93 我永不忘记你的训辞，因你用这训辞将我救活。
I will never forget Your precepts, For by them You have enlivened me.
119:94 我是属你的；求你救我，因我寻求了你的训辞。
I am Yours; save me, For I have sought Your precepts.
119:95 恶人等待我，要灭绝我，我却要揣摩你的法度。
The wicked have waited for me in order to destroy me, But I consider Your testimonies.
119:96 我看一切圆满的事都有尽头，惟有你的诫命极其宽广。
I have seen an end to all perfection, But Your commandment is all-expansive.
119:97 我何等爱你的律法，终日不住的默想。
Oh, how I love Your law! All day long it is my musing.
119:98 你的诫命使我比仇敌有智慧，因这些诫命常与我同在。
Your commandments make me wiser than my enemies, For they are always with me.
119:99 我比我所有的师傅更通达，因我默想你的法度。
I have more insight than all my teachers, For Your testimonies are my musing.
119:100 我比年老的更明白，因我守了你的训辞。
I understand more than the aged, For I have kept Your precepts.
611
119:101 我禁止我的脚走一切的邪路，为要遵守你的话。
I have withheld my feet from every evil way, That I might keep Your word.
119:102 我没有偏离你的典章，因为你教训了我。
I have not turned aside from Your ordinances, For You have taught me.
119:103 你的言语在我上膛何等甘美！在我口中比蜜更甜！
How sweet are Your words to my taste! Sweeter than honey to my mouth!
119:104 我借着你的训辞，得以明白；所以我恨一切虚假的行径。
Through Your precepts I gain understanding; Therefore I hate every false way.
119:105 你的话是我脚前的灯，是我路上的光。
Your word is a lamp to my feet And a light to my path.
119:106 我曾起誓遵守你公义的典章，我必坚守这誓言。
I have sworn and will confirm it, That I will keep Your righteous ordinances.
119:107 我甚是受苦；耶和华阿，求你照你的话将我救活。
I have been greatly afflicted; O Jehovah, enliven me according to Your word.
119:108 耶和华阿，求你悦纳我口中的甘心祭，且将你的典章教训我。
Accept, I pray, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O Jehovah; And teach me Your ordinances.
119:109 我的性命常在危险之中，我却不忘记你的律法。
My soul is continually in my hand, But I do not forget Your law.
119:110 恶人为我设下网罗，我却没有偏离你的训辞而迷失。
The wicked have laid a trap for me, But I do not stray from Your precepts.
119:111 你的法度是我永远的产业，因为这是我心中的欢乐。
Your testimonies are my heritage forever, For they are the gladness of my heart.
119:112 我的心倾向你的律例，要永远遵行，一直到底。
I have inclined my heart to perform Your statutes Forever, to the end.
119:113 心怀二意的人，为我所恨；但你的律法，为我所爱。
I hate those who are double-minded, But I love Your law.
119:114 你是我藏身之处，又是我的盾牌；我仰望你的话语。
You are my hiding place and my shield; In Your word do I hope.
119:115 你们作恶的人离开我罢，我好遵守我神的诫命。
Depart from me, you evildoers, That I may keep the commandments of my God.
119:116 求你照你的话扶持我，使我存活，也不叫我因所盼望的蒙羞。
Uphold me according to Your word that I may live, And do not let me be ashamed of my hope.
119:117 求你扶持我，使我得救，我必时常看重你的律例。
Hold me up that I may be safe, And I will regard Your statutes continually.
119:118 凡偏离你律例的人，你都轻弃他们，因为他们的诡诈必归虚空。
You spurn all those who stray from Your statutes, For their deceitfulness is vain.
119:119 凡地上的恶人，你除掉他们好像除掉渣滓；因此我爱你的法度。
You do away with all the wicked ones of the earth like dross; Therefore I love Your testimonies.
119:120 我因惧怕你，肉就发抖，我也怕你的判语。
My flesh trembles for fear of You, And I am afraid of Your judgments.
119:121 我行过公理和公义；求你不要把我撇给欺压我的人。
I have performed justice and righteousness; Do not leave me to my oppressors.
119:122 求你为仆人作保，使我得好处；不容骄傲人欺压我。
Guarantee Your servant's well-being; Do not let the proud oppress me.
119:123 我的眼因盼望你的救恩和你公义的话，以致昏蒙。
My eyes faint while longing for Your salvation And for Your righteous word.
119:124 求你照你的慈爱待仆人，将你的律例教训我。
Deal with Your servant according to Your lovingkindness, And teach me Your statutes.
119:125 我是你的仆人；求你赐我悟性，使我得知你的法度。
I am Your servant; give me understanding, That I may know Your testimonies.
119:126 这是耶和华行事的时候，因为人干犯了你的律法。
It is time for Jehovah to act, For they have broken Your law.
119:127 所以我爱你的诫命，胜过金子，且胜过精金；
Therefore I love Your commandments More than gold, indeed, more than fine gold;
119:128 因此你一切的训辞，在万事上，我都以为正直；我恨恶一切虚假的行径。
Therefore I esteem all Your precepts concerning all things to be right, And I hate every false way.
119:129 你的法度奇妙；所以我全魂谨守。
Your testimonies are wonderful; Therefore my soul keeps them.
119:130 你的言语一解开，就发出亮光，使愚蒙人通达。
The opening of Your words gives light, Imparting understanding to the simple.
119:131 我张口喘气，因我切慕你的诫命。
I opened my mouth wide and panted, For I longed for Your commandments.
119:132 求你照着你待那些爱你名之人的常例，转向我，恩待我。
Turn to me, and be gracious to me, As is Your custom with those who love Your name.
119:133 求你用你的话使我脚步稳当，不许什么罪孽辖制我。
Establish my footsteps in Your word, And do not let any iniquity have dominion over me.
612
119:134 求你救赎我脱离人的欺压，使我遵守你的训辞。
Redeem me from man's oppression, That I may keep Your precepts.
119:135 求你用脸光照仆人，又将你的律例教训我。
Cause Your face to shine on Your servant, And teach me Your statutes.
119:136 我的眼泪像河水流下，因为他们不守你的律法。
My eyes shed streams of water, Because men do not keep Your law.
119:137 耶和华阿，你是公义的；你的判语也是正直的。
You are righteous, O Jehovah; And Your judgments are upright.
119:138 你凭公义和至大的信实，命定了你的法度。
You have commanded Your testimonies in righteousness And great faithfulness.
119:139 我心里焦急，如同火烧，因我的敌人忘记了你的言语。
My zeal has consumed me, For my adversaries have forgotten Your words.
119:140 你的话极其精炼，为你的仆人所爱。
Your word is very pure, And Your servant loves it.
119:141 我微小被人藐视，却不忘记你的训辞。
I am small and despised, But I do not forget Your precepts.
119:142 你的公义是永远的公义，你的律法尽是真理。
Your righteousness is an eternal righteousness, And Your law is truth.
119:143 我遭遇患难窘迫，你的诫命却是我的喜乐。
Distress and anguish have come upon me, But Your commandments are my delight.
119:144 你的法度永远是公义的；求你赐我悟性，我就活了。
Your testimonies are righteous forever; Give me understanding, and I will live.
119:145 耶和华阿，我全心呼求你，求你应允我。我必遵守你的律例。
I called with my whole heart; answer me, O Jehovah. I will keep Your statutes.
119:146 我向你呼求，求你救我；我要遵守你的法度。
I called upon You; save me, And I will observe Your testimonies.
119:147 我趁天未亮呼求；我仰望了你的言语。
I anticipated the dawn and cried out; I hoped in Your words.
119:148 我趁夜更未换，将眼睁开，为要默想你的话语。
My eyes anticipated the night watches, That I might muse upon Your word.
119:149 求你照你的慈爱，听我的声音；耶和华阿，求你照你的典章将我救活。
Hear my voice according to Your lovingkindness; O Jehovah, according to Your ordinances enliven me.
119:150 意逼迫我的人临近了；他们远离你的律法。
Those who persecute me with evil intent draw near; They are far from Your law.
119:151 耶和华阿，你与我相近；你一切的诫命尽是真理。
You are near, O Jehovah; And all Your commandments are truth.
119:152 我从你的法度，久已知道那是你永远立定的。
Of old I have known from Your testimonies That You have founded them forever.
119:153 求你看顾我的苦难，搭救我；因我没有忘记你的律法。
Look at my affliction, and deliver me; For I have not forgotten Your law.
119:154 求你为我辨屈，救赎我；求你照你的话将我救活。
Plead my case, and redeem me; Enliven me according to Your word.
119:155 救恩远离恶人，因为他们不寻求你的律例。
Salvation is far from the wicked, For they do not seek Your statutes.
119:156 耶和华阿，你的怜恤本为大；求你照你的典章将我救活。
Great are Your compassions, O Jehovah; Enliven me according to Your ordinances.
119:157 逼迫我的和敌挡我的很多，但我没有偏离你的法度。
Many are my persecutors and my adversaries, But I have not swerved from Your testimonies.
119:158 我看见奸诈的人就厌恶，因为他们不遵守你的话。
I saw the treacherous and loathed them, Because they did not keep Your word.
119:159 你看我怎样爱你的训辞；耶和华阿，求你照你的慈爱将我救活。
See how I have loved Your precepts; O Jehovah, enliven me according to Your lovingkindness.
119:160 你话语的总和是真理，你一切公义的典章永远长存。
The sum of Your word is truth, And all Your righteous ordinances are forever.
119:161 首领无故的逼迫我，但我的心畏惧你的言语。
Princes have persecuted me without cause, But my heart stands in awe of Your words.
119:162 我因你的话欢喜，好像人得了许多掳物。
I rejoice at Your word, Like one who finds great spoil.
119:163 虚谎是我所恨恶所憎嫌的，惟你的律法是我所爱的。
I hate and abhor falsehood, But I love Your law.
119:164 我因你公义的典章，一天七次赞美你。
Seven times a day I praise You For Your righteous ordinances.
119:165 爱你律法的人有大平安，什么都不能使他们绊跌。
There is great peace for those who love Your law, And there is no occasion of stumbling for them.
119:166 耶和华阿，我仰望了你的救恩，遵行了你的诫命。
I have hoped for Your salvation, O Jehovah; And I have done Your commandments.
613
119:167 我的魂守了你的法度，这些法度我甚喜爱。
My soul has kept Your testimonies, And I love them very much.
119:168 我遵守了你的训辞和法度，因我一切的行径都在你面前。
I have kept Your precepts and Your testimonies, For all my ways are before You.
119:169 耶和华阿，愿我的呼吁达到你面前；求你照你的话赐我悟性。
Let my cry come before You, O Jehovah; Give me understanding according to Your word.
119:170 愿我的恳求达到你面前；求你照你的话搭救我。
Let my supplication come before You; Deliver me according to Your word.
119:171 愿我的嘴唇倾吐赞美的话，因为你将你的律例教训我。
Let my lips pour forth praise, For You teach me Your statutes.
119:172 愿我的舌头歌唱你的话，因你一切的诫命尽是公义。
Let my tongue sing of Your word, For all Your commandments are righteousness.
119:173 愿你用手帮助我，因我拣选了你的训辞。
Let Your hand be ready to help me, For I have chosen Your precepts.
119:174 耶和华阿，我切慕你的救恩，你的律法也是我的喜乐。
I have longed for Your salvation, O Jehovah, And Your law is my delight.
119:175 愿我的性命存活，可以赞美你；愿你的典章帮助我。
Let my soul live, and it will praise You; And let Your ordinances help me.
119:176 我如亡羊走迷了路；求你寻找仆人，因我没有忘记你的诫命。
I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek Your servant, For I have not forgotten Your commandments.
诗篇 Psalms 第 120 篇
120:1 我在急难中呼求耶和华，祂就应允我。
In my distress I called out to Jehovah, And He answered me.
120:2 耶和华阿，求你救我脱离说谎的嘴唇，脱离诡诈的舌头。
O Jehovah, deliver my soul from lying lips, From a tongue of deceit.
120:3 诡诈的舌头阿，要给你什么呢？要拿什么加给你呢？
What should be given to you, And what further shall be done to you, O tongue of deceit?
120:4 就是勇士的利箭，连同罗腾木的炭火！
The sharp arrows of a mighty man, With the burning coals of the broom tree!
120:5 我有祸了，因我寄居在米设，住在基达帐棚之中。
Woe is me, for I sojourn in Meshech, I dwell among the tents of Kedar.
120:6 我与那恨恶和平的人，许久同住。
Long has my soul had its dwelling With him who hates peace.
120:7 我愿和平；但我发言，他们就要争战。
I am for peace; but when I speak, They are for war.
诗篇 Psalms 第 121 篇
121:1 我要向山举目。我的帮助从何而来？
I will lift up my eyes to the hills. From where will my help come?
121:2 我的帮助从造天地的耶和华而来。
My help comes from Jehovah, Who made heaven and earth.
121:3 祂必不叫你的脚滑跌；保护你的必不打盹。
He will not let your foot slip; He who keeps you will not slumber.
121:4 看哪，保护以色列的，也不打盹，也不睡觉。
Behold, Israel's Keeper Will neither slumber nor sleep.
121:5 保护你的是耶和华；耶和华在你右边荫庇你。
Jehovah is your Keeper; Jehovah is your shade at your right hand.
121:6 白日太阳必不伤你，夜间月亮必不害你。
The sun will not strike you by day, Nor the moon by night.
121:7 耶和华要保护你，免受一切的灾害；祂要保护你的性命。
Jehovah will keep you from all evil; He will keep your soul.
121:8 你出你入，耶和华要保护你，从今时直到永远。
Jehovah will keep your going out and your coming in From now and to eternity.
诗篇 Psalms 第 122 篇
122:1 人对我说，我们往耶和华的殿去，我就欢喜。
I rejoiced when they said to me, Let us go to the house of Jehovah.
122:2 耶路撒冷阿，我们的脚，站在你的门内。
Our feet are standing Within your gates, O Jerusalem.
122:3 耶路撒冷被建造，如同连络整齐的一座城；
614
Jerusalem has been built as a city That has been compacted together;
122:4 众支派，就是耶和华的支派，上那里去，作以色列的见证，称谢耶和华的名。
To which the tribes go up, The tribes of Jehovah-A custom for Israel-To give thanks to the name of Jehovah.
122:5 因为在那里设立了审判的宝座，就是大卫家的宝座。
For there thrones are set for judgment, Thrones of the house of David.
122:6 你们要为耶路撒冷求平安。耶路撒冷阿，爱你的人必然兴旺。
Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. Those who love you will prosper.
122:7 愿你城中平安，愿你宫内兴旺。
Peace be within your bulwarks, And prosperity within your citadels.
122:8 因我弟兄和同伴的缘故，我要说，愿平安在你中间。
For my brothers' and companions' sake I will now say, Peace be within you.
122:9 因耶和华我们神殿的缘故，我要为你求好处。
For the sake of the house of Jehovah our God I will seek your good.
诗篇 Psalms 第 123 篇
123:1 坐在天上的主阿，我向你举目。
To You do I lift up my eyes, You who sit enthroned in heaven.
123:2 看哪，仆人的眼睛怎样望主人的手，使女的眼睛怎样望主母的手，我们的眼睛也照样望耶和华我们的神，直到祂恩待我们。
Behold, as the eyes of the servants Look to the hand of their masters, As the eyes of a servant girl Look to the hand of her mistress, So our eyes look to Jehovah
our God, Until He is gracious to us.
123:3 耶和华阿，求你恩待我们，恩待我们；因为我们饱受藐视，到了极点。
Be gracious to us, O Jehovah, be gracious to us; For we are greatly filled with contempt.
123:4 我们的魂饱受那些安逸人的讥诮，和骄傲人的藐视，到了极点。
Our soul is greatly filled With the scorn of those who are at ease, With the contempt of the proud.
诗篇 Psalms 第 124 篇
124:1 以色列人要说，若不是耶和华在我们这边，
If it had not been Jehovah who was on our side, Oh, let Israel say,
124:2 若不是耶和华在我们这边，当人起来攻击我们，
If it had not been Jehovah who was on our side When men rose up against us;
124:3 向我们发怒的时候，早就把我们活活的吞了；
Then they would have swallowed us up alive When their anger burned against us;
124:4 那时，大水必漫过我们，河水必淹没我们；
Then the waters would have washed us away; The stream would have passed over our soul;
124:5 那时，狂傲的水必淹没我们。
Then the proud waters Would have passed over our soul.
124:6 耶和华是当受颂赞的，祂没有把我们交给敌人，作他们爪牙下的猎物。
Blessed be Jehovah, who has not given us As prey to their teeth.
124:7 我们好像雀鸟从捕鸟人的网罗里逃脱；网罗破裂，我们逃脱了。
Our soul has escaped like a bird, Out of the snare of the fowlers; The snare is broken, And we have escaped.
124:8 我们得帮助，是在于造天地之耶和华的名。
Our help is in the name of Jehovah, Who made heaven and earth.
诗篇 Psalms 第 125 篇
125:1 信靠耶和华的人，好像锡安山，永远存在，总不动摇。
Those who trust in Jehovah are like Mount Zion, Which cannot be moved but abides forever.
125:2 众山怎样围绕耶路撒冷，耶和华也照样围绕祂的百姓，从今时直到永远。
Jerusalem-mountains surround her; And Jehovah surrounds His people From now and to eternity.
125:3 恶人的杖必不落在义人的业分上，免得义人伸手作罪孽。
For the scepter of wickedness will not rest Upon the allotment of the righteous, That the righteous would not put forth Their hands to iniquity.
125:4 耶和华阿，求你善待那些为善，和心里正直的人。
Do good, O Jehovah, to the good And to those upright in their hearts.
125:5 至于那些偏行弯曲道路的人，耶和华必将他们和作孽的人一同带去受刑。愿平安归于以色列。
But as for those who turn aside to their crooked ways, Jehovah will lead them off with the workers of iniquity. Peace be upon Israel.
诗篇 Psalms 第 126 篇
126:1 当耶和华使那些被掳的人归回锡安的时候，我们好像作梦的人。
When Jehovah turned again the captivity of Zion, We were like those who dream.
126:2 那时我们满口喜笑，满舌欢呼。那时列国中有人说，耶和华为他们行了大事。
615
At that time our mouth was filled with laughter And our tongue with a ringing shout. At that time they said among the nations, Jehovah has done great things for
them.
126:3 耶和华为我们行了大事，我们就欢喜。
Jehovah has done great things for us; We are joyful.
126:4 耶和华阿，求你使我们被掳的人归回，好像南地的河水复流。
Turn again, O Jehovah, our captivity Like the streams in the south.
126:5 流泪撒种的，必欢呼收割。
Those who sow in tears Will reap with a ringing shout.
126:6 那带种子流着泪出去撒播的，必要欢呼着带禾捆回来。
He who goes forth and weeps, Bearing seed for scattering, Will no doubt come in with a ringing shout, Bearing his sheaves with him.
诗篇 Psalms 第 127 篇
127:1 若不是耶和华建造房屋，建造的人就枉然劳力；若不是耶和华看守城池，看守的人就枉然儆醒。
Unless Jehovah builds the house, Those who build it labor in vain. Unless Jehovah keeps the city, The guard watches in vain.
127:2 你们清晨早起，夜晚歇卧，吃劳碌得来的饭，本是枉然；耶和华在祂所亲爱的人睡觉时，必仍然赐给他们食物。
It is vain for you to rise up early, To lie down late, To eat the bread of toil; All the same, He gives to His beloved while they sleep.
127:3 看哪，儿女是耶和华所赐的产业；腹中的果子是祂所给的赏赐。
Behold, children are the heritage of Jehovah, The fruit of the womb a reward.
127:4 少年时所生的儿女，好像勇士手中的箭。
Like arrows in the hand of a mighty man, So are the children of one's youth.
127:5 箭袋充满了箭的人，便为有福。他们在城门口和仇敌说话的时候，必不至于羞愧。
Blessed is the man Who fills his quiver with them. He will not be put to shame When he speaks with enemies in the gate.
诗篇 Psalms 第 128 篇
128:1 凡敬畏耶和华、遵行祂道路的人，便为有福。
Blessed is everyone who fears Jehovah, Who walks in His ways.
128:2 你要吃亲手劳碌得来的；你要蒙福，并且顺利。
You will indeed eat the labor of your hands; You will be blessed, and it will go well with you.
128:3 你妻子在你的内室，好像多结果子的葡萄树。你儿女围绕你的桌子，好像橄榄栽子。
Your wife will be like a fruitful vine In the innermost parts of your house. Your children will be like olive shoots Round about your table.
128:4 敬畏耶和华的人，必要这样蒙福。
Thus will the man be blessed Who fears Jehovah.
128:5 愿耶和华从锡安赐福给你；愿你一生的日子，看见耶路撒冷的美福。
Jehovah bless you from Zion; And may you see the prosperity of Jerusalem All the days of your life.
128:6 愿你看见你儿女的儿女。愿平安归于以色列。
May you also see the children of your children. Peace be upon Israel.
诗篇 Psalms 第 129 篇
129:1 以色列当说，从我幼年以来，敌人屡次苦害我，
Many times have they afflicted me since my youth, Oh, let Israel say,
129:2 从我幼年以来，敌人屡次苦害我，却没有胜过我。
Many times have they afflicted me since my youth, Yet they did not prevail against me.
129:3 他们好像扶犁的，在我背上扶犁而耕；耕的犁沟甚长。
The plowers plowed on my back; They made their furrows long.
129:4 耶和华是公义的；祂砍断了恶人的绳索。
Jehovah is righteous; He has cut the cords of the wicked.
129:5 愿恨恶锡安的，都蒙羞退后。
May all who hate Zion Be put to shame and turned back.
129:6 愿他们像房顶上的草，未长成而枯萎；
May they be like grass on the housetops, Which withers before it grows up,
129:7 收割的不够一把，捆禾的也不够满怀。
With which the reaper does not fill his hand, Or he who binds sheaves, his bosom.
129:8 过路的也不说，愿耶和华所赐的福，归于你们；我们在耶和华的名里，给你们祝福。
Nor may those who pass by say, The blessing of Jehovah be upon you! We bless you in the name of Jehovah.
诗篇 Psalms 第 130 篇
130:1 耶和华阿，我从深处向你呼求。
Out of the depths I have called upon You, O Jehovah.
130:2 主阿，求你听我的声音；愿你侧耳听我恳求的声音。
616
O Lord, hear my voice; Let Your ears be attentive To the voice of my supplications.
130:3 耶和华阿，你若察看罪孽，主阿，谁能站得住呢？
If You, O Jehovah, marked iniquities, Who, O Lord, would stand?
130:4 但在你有赦免之恩，要叫人敬畏你。
But with You there is forgiveness, That You would be feared.
130:5 我等候耶和华；我的魂等候，我也仰望祂的话。
I wait for Jehovah; my soul waits, And in His word I hope.
130:6 我的魂等候主，胜于守夜的等候天亮，胜于守夜的等候天亮。
My soul waits for the Lord More than watchmen for the morning, Yes, watchmen for the morning.
130:7 以色列阿，你当仰望耶和华；因耶和华有慈爱，在祂那里有丰盛的救赎；
Hope in Jehovah, O Israel; For with Jehovah there is lovingkindness, And with Him abundantly there is redemption;
130:8 祂必救赎以色列脱离一切的罪孽。
And it is He who will redeem Israel From all its iniquities.
诗篇 Psalms 第 131 篇
131:1 耶和华阿，我的心不狂傲，我的眼不高大；过于重大和希奇的事，我也不去行。
O Jehovah, my heart is not proud, Nor are my eyes haughty; Nor do I go about in things too great Or too wondrous for me.
131:2 我使我的魂平稳安静，好像断过奶的孩子在他母亲怀中；我的魂在我里面真像断过奶的孩子。
Surely I have calmed And quieted my soul, Like a weaned child with its mother; Like a weaned child is my soul within me.
131:3 以色列阿，你当仰望耶和华，从今时直到永远。
Hope in Jehovah, O Israel, From now and to eternity.
诗篇 Psalms 第 132 篇
132:1 耶和华阿，求你记念大卫，记念他所受的一切苦难。
Remember, O Jehovah, for David's sake All his afflictions;
132:2 他怎样向耶和华起誓，向雅各的大能者许愿，说，
How he swore to Jehovah And vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob:
132:3 我必不进我的帐幕，也不上我的床榻；
I shall not go into the tent of my house; I shall not go up onto the couch of my bed;
132:4 我不容我的眼睛睡觉，也不容我的眼皮打盹；
I shall not give sleep to my eyes, Slumber to my eyelids;
132:5 直等我为耶和华寻得所在，为雅各的大能者寻得居所。
Until I find a place for Jehovah, A tabernacle for the Mighty One of Jacob.
132:6 看哪，我们听说约柜在以法他，我们在基列耶琳就寻见了。
Behold, we heard of it in Ephrathah; We found it in the fields of Jaar.
132:7 我们要进祂的居所，在祂脚凳前下拜。
We will go into His tabernacle; We will worship at His footstool.
132:8 耶和华阿，求你兴起，和你有能力的约柜同入你安息之所。
Arise, O Jehovah, unto Your resting place, You and the Ark of Your strength.
132:9 愿你的祭司披上公义，愿你的虔诚人欢呼。
Let Your priests be clothed with righteousness, And let Your faithful ones give a ringing shout.
132:10 求你因你仆人大卫的缘故，不厌弃你的受膏者。
For the sake of David Your servant, Do not turn away the face of Your Anointed One.
132:11 耶和华向大卫凭真实起了誓，必不反覆，说，我要从你本身所生的，立一位坐在你的宝座上。
Jehovah has sworn unto David in truth; He will not turn from it: Of the fruit of your body I will set One upon your throne.
132:12 你的众子若守我的约，和我所教训他们的法度，他们的子孙也必永远坐在你的宝座上。
If your children keep My covenant And My testimonies that I will teach them, Their children also will sit Upon your throne forever.
132:13 因为耶和华拣选了锡安，愿意当作自己的居所，
For Jehovah has chosen Zion; He has desired it for His habitation.
132:14 说，这是我永远安息之所；我要住在这里，因为是我所愿意的。
This is My resting place forever; Here will I dwell, for I have desired it.
132:15 我要丰厚的赐福与其中的粮，使其中的穷人饱得食物。
I will abundantly bless its provision; I will satisfy its poor with bread.
132:16 我要使其中的祭司披上救恩，其中的虔诚人大声欢呼。
And its priests I will clothe with salvation, And its faithful ones will shout with a ringing shout.
132:17 我要叫大卫的角在那里长出；我为我的受膏者预备明灯。
There I will cause a horn of David to shoot forth; I have prepared a lamp for My anointed one.
132:18 我要使他的仇敌披上羞耻，但他的冠冕要在他头上发光。
I will clothe his enemies with shame, But on him his crown will shine.
诗篇 Psalms 第 133 篇
617
133:1 看哪，弟兄和睦同居，是何等的善，何等的美！
Behold, how good and how pleasant it is For brothers to dwell in unity!
133:2 这好比那上好的油，浇在亚伦的头上，流到胡须，又流到他的衣襟；
It is like the fine oil upon the head That ran down upon the beard, Upon Aaron's beard, That ran down upon the hem of his garments;
133:3 又好比黑门的甘露，降在锡安山；因为在那里有耶和华所命定的福，就是永远的生命。
Like the dew of Hermon That came down upon the mountains of Zion. For there Jehovah commanded the blessing: Life forever.
诗篇 Psalms 第 134 篇
134:1 耶和华的众仆人，夜间站在耶和华殿中的，你们当颂赞耶和华。
Bless Jehovah now, All you servants of Jehovah Who stand by night in the house of Jehovah.
134:2 你们当在圣所举手，颂赞耶和华。
Lift up your hands in the sanctuary, And bless Jehovah.
134:3 愿造天地的耶和华，从锡安赐福给你们。
May Jehovah, who made heaven and earth, Bless you from Zion.
诗篇 Psalms 第 135 篇
135:1 阿利路亚！你们要赞美耶和华的名；耶和华的仆人，站在耶和华殿中，站在我们神殿院中的，你们要赞美祂。
Hallelujah! Praise the name of Jehovah; Praise Him, you servants of Jehovah,
135:2
Who stand in the house of Jehovah, In the courts of the house of our God.
135:3 你们要赞美耶和华，耶和华本为善；要歌颂祂的名，因为这名是可喜悦的。
Praise Jehovah, for Jehovah is good; Sing psalms to His name, for it is pleasant.
135:4 耶和华拣选了雅各归祂自己，拣选了以色列作祂自己的珍宝。
For Jehovah has chosen Jacob for Himself, Israel for His personal treasure.
135:5 因为我知道耶和华为大，也知道我们的主超乎万神之上。
For I know that Jehovah is great And that our Lord is above all gods.
135:6 耶和华在天上，在地上，在海中，在一切的深处，都随自己的喜悦而行。
Whatever Jehovah pleases He does In heaven and on earth, In the seas and all the depths.
135:7 祂使云雾从地极上腾，造电随雨而闪，从祂府库中带出风来。
He causes the vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth; He makes lightning for the rain; He brings forth wind from His treasuries.
135:8 祂将埃及头生的，连人带牲畜，都击杀了。
He struck the firstborn of Egypt, Both of man and of beast.
135:9 埃及阿，祂施行神迹奇事在你当中，在法老和他一切臣仆身上。
He sent signs and wonders into your midst, O Egypt, Upon Pharaoh and all his servants.
135:10 祂击打许多国，又杀戮大能的王，
He struck many nations And slew mighty kings:
135:11 就是亚摩利人的王西宏、和巴珊王噩、并迦南一切的国王，
Sihon the king of the Amorites And Og the king of Bashan And all the kingdoms of Canaan.
135:12 将他们的地赐给祂的百姓以色列为业。
And He gave their land as an inheritance, An inheritance to Israel His people.
135:13 耶和华阿，你的名存到永远；耶和华阿，你可记念的名存到万代。
O Jehovah, Your name is forever; O Jehovah, Your memorial is from generation to generation.
135:14 耶和华要为祂的百姓伸冤，祂要怜恤祂的仆人。
For Jehovah will execute judgment for His people, And He will have compassion concerning His servants.
135:15 列国的偶像是银的金的，是人手所造的；
The idols of the nations are mere silver and gold, The work of human hands.
135:16 有口却不能言，有眼却不能看，
They have mouths, but they do not speak; They have eyes, but they do not see.
135:17 有耳却不能听，口中也没有气息。
They have ears, but they do not give ear; And there is no breath in their mouths.
135:18 造它们的，并一切倚靠它们的，都要和它们一样。
Those who make them, All who trust in them, Will be like them.
135:19 以色列家阿，你们要颂赞耶和华。亚伦家阿，你们要颂赞耶和华。
O house of Israel, bless Jehovah. O house of Aaron, bless Jehovah.
135:20 利未家阿，你们要颂赞耶和华。你们敬畏耶和华的，要颂赞耶和华。
O house of Levi, bless Jehovah. O you who fear Jehovah, bless Jehovah.
135:21 住在耶路撒冷的耶和华，当从锡安受颂赞。阿利路亚。
Blessed be Jehovah from Zion, Who dwells in Jerusalem. Hallelujah.
诗篇 Psalms 第 136 篇
136:1 你们要称谢耶和华，因祂本为善；祂的慈爱永远长存。
618
Give thanks to Jehovah, for He is good; For His lovingkindness is forever.
136:2 你们要称谢万神之神，因祂的慈爱永远长存。
Give thanks to the God of gods, For His lovingkindness is forever.
136:3 你们要称谢万主之主，因祂的慈爱永远长存。
Give thanks to the Lord of lords, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:4 要称谢那独行大奇事的，因祂的慈爱永远长存；
To Him who alone does great wonders, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:5 要称谢那用聪明造天的，因祂的慈爱永远长存；
To Him who by understanding made the heavens, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:6 要称谢那铺地在水以上的，因祂的慈爱永远长存；
To Him who spread forth the earth over the waters, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:7 要称谢那造大光的，因祂的慈爱永远长存；
To Him who made the great lights, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:8 祂造日头管白昼，因祂的慈爱永远长存；
The sun for ruling the day, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:9 祂造月亮星宿管黑夜，因祂的慈爱永远长存。
The moon and the stars for ruling the night, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:10 要称谢那击杀埃及人头生的，因祂的慈爱永远长存；
To Him who struck Egypt in their firstborn, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:11 祂领以色列人从他们中间出来，因祂的慈爱永远长存；
And brought forth Israel from their midst, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:12 祂用大能的手和伸出来的膀臂，领他们出来，因祂的慈爱永远长存；
With a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:13 要称谢那使红海分开的，因祂的慈爱永远长存；
To Him who divided the Red Sea apart, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:14 祂领以色列人从其中经过，因祂的慈爱永远长存；
And brought Israel over through the midst of it, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:15 祂把法老和他的军兵推翻在红海里，因祂的慈爱永远长存。
And shook off Pharaoh and his force into the Red Sea, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:16 要称谢那引导自己的民行走旷野的，因祂的慈爱永远长存；
To Him who marched His people through the wilderness, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:17 要称谢那击杀大君王的，因祂的慈爱永远长存；
To Him who struck great kings, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:18 祂杀戮威严的君王，因祂的慈爱永远长存；
And slew majestic kings, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:19 就是杀戮亚摩利人的王西宏，因祂的慈爱永远长存；
Sihon the king of the Amorites, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:20 又杀巴珊王噩，因祂的慈爱永远长存；
And Og the king of Bashan, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:21 祂将他们的地赐给祂的百姓为业，因祂的慈爱永远长存；
And gave their land as an inheritance, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:22 就是赐给祂的仆人以色列为业，因祂的慈爱永远长存。
An inheritance to Israel His servant, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:23 祂记念我们在卑微的地步，因祂的慈爱永远长存；
Who remembered us in our low estate, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:24 祂救拔我们脱离敌人，因祂的慈爱永远长存；
And rescued us from our adversaries, For His lovingkindness is forever;
136:25 祂赐粮食给凡有血肉的，因祂的慈爱永远长存。
Who gives food to all flesh, For His lovingkindness is forever.
136:26 你们要称谢天上的神，因祂的慈爱永远长存。
Give thanks to the God of heaven, For His lovingkindness is forever.
诗篇 Psalms 第 137 篇
137:1 我们曾在巴比伦的河边坐下，一追想锡安就哭了。
By the rivers of Babylon, There we sat down; indeed, we wept When we remembered Zion.
137:2 我们把琴挂在那里的柳树上，
On the willows in the midst of it We hung up our lyres,
137:3 因为在那里，掳掠我们的要我们唱歌，苦待我们的要我们作乐，说，给我们唱一首锡安歌罢。
For there our captors required of us songs, And those who tormented us required of us mirth, saying, Sing for us One of the songs of Zion.
137:4 我们怎能在外邦地唱耶和华的歌呢？
How can we sing the song of Jehovah In a foreign land?
137:5 耶路撒冷阿，我若忘记你，情愿我的右手忘记技巧。
If I forget you, O Jerusalem, Let my right hand forget its skill.
137:6 我若不记念你，若不看耶路撒冷过于我所最喜乐的，情愿我的舌头贴于上膛。
619
Let my tongue cling to the roof of my mouth, If I do not remember you, If I do not prefer Jerusalem Above my chief joy.
137:7 耶和华阿，求你记念以东人在耶路撒冷遭难的日子所行的，他们说，拆毁！拆毁！直拆到根基！
Remember, O Jehovah, Against the children of Edom, The day of Jerusalem, Who said, Lay it bare! Lay it bare, Down to its foundation!
137:8 将要被灭的巴比伦城阿，照你待我们的行为报复你的，那人便为有福。
O daughter of Babylon, who are to be devastated, Happy will he be who repays you The recompense of what you have rendered to us.
137:9 拿你的婴孩摔在磐石上的，那人便为有福。
Happy will he be who seizes your little ones And dashes them against the rock.
诗篇 Psalms 第 138 篇
138:1 我要全心称谢你，在诸神面前歌颂你。
I will give You thanks with all my heart; Before the gods I will sing psalms to You.
138:2 我要向你的圣殿下拜，为你的慈爱和真实称谢你的名；因你使你的话显为大，超过你一切的名声。
I will bow toward Your holy temple And give thanks to Your name For Your lovingkindness and Your truth, For You have magnified Your word above all Your name.
138:3 我呼求的日子，你就应允我，鼓励我，使我魂里有能力。
On the day that I called out, You answered me; You encouraged me with strength in my soul.
138:4 耶和华阿，地上的君王都要称谢你，因他们听见了你口中的言语。
All the kings of the earth will give thanks to You, O Jehovah; For they have heard the words of Your mouth.
138:5 他们要歌颂耶和华的作为，因耶和华大有荣耀。
And they will sing of the ways of Jehovah, For great is the glory of Jehovah.
138:6 耶和华虽高，仍看顾低微的人；祂却从远处认出骄傲的人。
For though Jehovah is high, He regards the lowly; And the haughty He knows from afar.
138:7 我虽行在患难中，你必使我存活；我的仇敌发怒，你必伸手抵挡他们，你的右手也必救我。
Though I walk in the midst of trouble, You will preserve me; Against the wrath of my enemies You will stretch out Your hand, And Your right hand will save me.
138:8 耶和华必成全关乎我的事；耶和华阿，你的慈爱永远长存；求你不要撇弃你亲手所造的。
Jehovah will complete that which concerns me. O Jehovah, Your lovingkindness is forever; Do not forsake the works of Your own hands.
诗篇 Psalms 第 139 篇
139:1 耶和华阿，你已经鉴察我，认识我。
O Jehovah, You have searched me and known me.
139:2 我坐下，我起来，你都晓得；你从远处知道我的意念。
You know when I sit down and when I rise up; You understand my thoughts from afar.
139:3 我行路，我躺卧，你都细察，你也深知我一切所行的。
You thoroughly search my path and my lying down, And You are acquainted with all my ways.
139:4 我的话还未到舌头上，耶和华阿，你已完全知晓。
For a word is not yet on my tongue, And already You, O Jehovah, know it completely.
139:5 你在我前后环绕我，按手在我身上。
You have closed in on me behind and before And have laid Your hand on me.
139:6 这样的知识太奇妙，是我不能测的；至高，是我不能及的。
O knowledge too wonderful for me! It is so high; I cannot attain to it.
139:7 我往那里去躲避你的灵？我往那里逃躲避你的面？
Where shall I go, away from Your Spirit, And where shall I flee from Your presence?
139:8 我若升到天上，你在那里；我若在阴间下榻，你也在那里。
If I ascend into heaven, You are there; If I make my bed in Sheol, there You are.
139:9 我若展开清晨的翅膀，飞到海极居住，
If I take the wings of the dawn And settle at the limits of the sea,
139:10 就是在那里，你的手也必引导我，你的右手必紧握着我。
There also Your hand will lead me, And Your right hand will take hold of me.
139:11 我若说，黑暗必定遮蔽我，我周围的亮光必成为黑夜；
And if I say, Surely darkness will cover me, And the light around me will be night;
139:12 黑暗对你也不是黑暗，黑夜必如白昼发亮；黑暗和光明在你看都是一样。
Even the darkness is not dark to You, And night shines like day; The darkness is like the light.
139:13 我的肺腑是你所造的；我在母腹中，你已把我联络起来。
For it was You who formed my inward parts; You wove me together in my mother's womb.
139:14 我要赞美你，因我受造奇妙可畏；你的作为奇妙，这是我魂深知道的。
I will praise You, for I am awesomely and wonderfully made; Your works are wonderful, And my soul knows it well.
139:15 我在隐密中受造，在地的深处巧妙的形成，那时，我的形体并不向你隐藏。
My frame was not hidden from You When I was made in secret, Skillfully fashioned in the depths of the earth.
139:16 我未成形的体质，你的眼早已看见了；你所定的日子，我尚未度过一日，都写在你的册上了。
Your eyes saw my unformed substance; And in Your book all of them were written: The days that were ordained for me, When not one of them was yet.
139:17 神阿，你的意念对我何等宝贵！其数何等众多！
And how precious are Your thoughts to me, O God! How great is the sum of them!
139:18 我若数点，比海沙更多。我睡醒的时候，仍与你同在。
620
If I should count them, they would be more than the sand. When I awake, I am still with You.
139:19 神阿，愿你杀戮恶人－所以你们好流人血的，离开我去罢－
Oh that You, O God, would slay the wicked-Depart from me therefore, you men of bloodshed -
139:20 就是那些恶意说话顶撞你的人，他们是你的仇敌，妄称你的名。
Those who speak of You with evil intent, Who as Your enemies take Your name in vain.
139:21 耶和华阿，恨恶你的，我岂不恨恶他们么？起来攻击你的，我岂不厌恶他们么？
Do I not hate those who hate You, O Jehovah? And do I not loathe those who rise up against You?
139:22 我切切的恨恶他们；他们成了我的仇敌。
I hate them with a perfect hatred; They have become my own enemies.
139:23 神阿，求你鉴察我，知道我的心；试炼我，知道我的思虑；
Search me, O God, and know my heart; Try me, and know my anxious thoughts;
139:24 看在我里面有什么害人的行径没有，引导我走永远的道路。
And see if there is some harmful way in me, And lead me on the eternal way.
诗篇 Psalms 第 140 篇
140:1 耶和华阿，求你搭救我脱离恶人，保守我脱离强暴的人；
Deliver me, O Jehovah, from evil men; From violent men preserve me;
140:2 他们心中图谋恶事，不断挑启争端。
Who devise evil schemes in their hearts And continually stir up wars.
140:3 他们使舌头尖利如蛇；嘴里有虺蛇的毒气。 细拉
They have sharpened their tongues like that of a serpent; The poison of adders is under their lips.
140:4 耶和华阿，求你保护我脱离恶人的手，保守我脱离强暴的人；他们图谋推我跌倒。
Keep me, O Jehovah, from the hands of the wicked; From violent men preserve me; Who devise schemes to thrust me down.
140:5 骄傲人为我暗设网罗和绳索；他们在路旁铺下网，为我设下圈套。 细拉
The proud have hidden a trap for me and cords; They have spread a net by the wayside; They have set snares for me.
140:6 我曾对耶和华说，你是我的神；耶和华阿，求你侧耳听我恳求的声音。
I said to Jehovah, You are my God; Give ear, O Jehovah, to the voice of my supplications.
140:7 主耶和华，我救恩的力量阿，在争战的日子，你遮护了我的头。
O Jehovah Lord, strength of my salvation, You have covered my head in the day of battle.
140:8 耶和华阿，求你不要遂恶人的心愿；不要成就他们的计谋，免得他们自高。 细拉
O Jehovah, do not grant the desires of the wicked man; Do not let his evil scheme advance, Lest he be exalted.
140:9 至于那些昂首围困我的人，愿他们嘴唇的毒害把自己淹没了。
As for the head of those who surround me, May the mischief of their own lips cover them.
140:10 愿火炭落在他们身上；愿他们被丢在火中，抛在深坑里，不能再起来。
May burning coals drop down upon them; May they be thrown down into the fire, Into deep pits, never to rise again.
140:11 愿说谗言的人，在地上坚立不住；愿祸患猎取强暴的人，将他打倒。
Let no slanderer be established in the land; Let evil hunt down the violent man speedily.
140:12 我知道耶和华必为困苦人伸冤，必为穷乏人辨屈。
I know that Jehovah will maintain the cause of the afflicted And justice for the needy.
140:13 义人必要称谢你的名；正直人必住在你面前。
Surely the righteous will give thanks to Your name; The upright will dwell in Your presence.
诗篇 Psalms 第 141 篇
141:1 耶和华阿，我曾呼求你；求你快快临到我这里。我呼求你的时候，愿你侧耳听我的声音。
O Jehovah, I have called upon You; hasten to me. Give ear to my voice when I call out to You.
141:2 愿我的祷告如香陈列在你面前，愿我举手祈求，如献晚祭。
Let my prayer be set before You as incense, The lifting up of my hands as the evening offering.
141:3 耶和华阿，求你在我的口边设立守卫；求你把守我嘴唇的门户。
Set a watch, O Jehovah, before my mouth; Keep the door of my lips.
141:4 求你不叫我的心偏向恶事，以致我和行罪孽的人一同行恶；也不叫我吃他们的美食。
Do not let my heart turn to anything evil, To practice deeds of wickedness With men who commit iniquity; And let me not eat of their delicacies.
141:5 愿义人凭慈爱击打我，责备我；这算为我头上的膏油，愿我的头不躲闪，因我仍要祷告，抵制人的恶行。
Let the righteous strike me in kindness and reprove me; Let not my head refuse oil upon the head, For still my prayer is against their evil deeds.
141:6 他们的审判官被扔在岩下；他们要听我的话，因为这话令人愉悦。
Their judges are thrown down by the sides of the rock, And they hear my words, that they are pleasant.
141:7 我们的骨头散在阴间门口，好像人耕田刨地掘起的土块。
As when one plows and breaks up the earth, Our bones are scattered at the mouth of Sheol.
141:8 主耶和华阿，我的眼目仰望你；我投奔于你，求你不要将我的性命倾倒出来。
For my eyes are upon You, O Jehovah Lord; In You I take refuge; do not pour out my soul.
141:9 求你保护我脱离他们为我设的网罗，和作孽之人的圈套。
Keep me from the trap they have set for me And from the snares of the workers of iniquity.
141:10 愿恶人落在自己的网里，我却得以安然经过。
621
May the wicked fall into their own nets While I alone pass by.
诗篇 Psalms 第 142 篇
142:1 我发声哀求耶和华，发声恳求耶和华。
With my voice I cry to Jehovah; With my voice I make my supplication to Jehovah.
142:2 我在祂面前倾吐我的苦情，在祂面前诉说我的患难。
I pour out my complaint before Him; I declare my trouble before Him.
142:3 我的灵在我里面发昏的时候，你知道我的路径。在我所行的道路上，人为我暗设网罗。
When my spirit fainted within me, You knew my path. On the way on which I walked They have hidden a trap for me.
142:4 求你向我右边观看，因为没有人认识我；我无处逃避，也没有人眷顾我。
Look on my right hand and see, For there is no one who regards me; Refuge has failed me; No one cares for me.
142:5 耶和华阿，我曾向你哀求；我说，你是我的避难所，是我在活人之地的业分。
I cried to You, O Jehovah; I said, You are my refuge, My portion in the land of the living.
142:6 求你垂听我的呼求，因我落到极卑微的地步；求你救我脱离逼迫我的人，因为他们比我强大。
Give heed to my cry, For I have been brought very low; Deliver me from those who persecute me, For they are stronger than I.
142:7 求你领我出离被囚之地，我好称谢你的名。义人必环绕我，因为你必厚待我。
Bring my soul out of prison, That I may give thanks to Your name. The righteous will surround me, For You will deal bountifully with me.
诗篇 Psalms 第 143 篇
143:1 耶和华阿，求你听我的祷告，侧耳听我的恳求，凭你的信实和公义应允我；
O Jehovah, hear my prayer; Give ear to my supplications; Answer me in Your faithfulness and in Your righteousness;
143:2 求你不要传唤你的仆人去受审，因为在你面前，凡活着的人没有一个是义的。
And do not enter into judgment with Your servant, For no one alive is righteous in Your sight.
143:3 原来仇敌逼迫我，将我的命压倒在地，使我住在幽暗之处，像死了许久的人一样。
For the enemy has persecuted my soul; He has crushed my life down to the ground; He has caused me to dwell in dark places, like those who have been long
dead.
143:4 所以，我的灵在我里面发昏；我的心在我里面惊惧。
Therefore my spirit faints within me; My heart is appalled in the midst of me.
143:5 我追想古时之日，默念你的一切作为，默想你手的工作。
I remember the days of old; I meditate upon all that You have done; I muse upon the work of Your hands.
143:6 我向你伸开双手祷告，我的魂渴想你，如干旱之地盼雨一样。 细拉
I spread out my hands to You; My soul thirsts for You like a parched land.
143:7 耶和华阿，求你速速应允我；我的灵耗尽。不要向我掩面，免得我像那些下坑的人一样。
Hurry and answer me, O Jehovah; My spirit fails. Do not hide Your face from me, Lest I become like those who go down into the pit.
143:8 求你使我清晨得听你的慈爱，因我信靠你。求你使我知道当行的道路，因我的魂仰望你。
Cause me to hear Your lovingkindness in the morning, For in You I trust. Make known to me the way on which I should walk, For to You I lift up my soul.
143:9 耶和华阿，求你救我脱离我的仇敌；我逃往你那里避难。
Deliver me from my enemies, O Jehovah; I have fled to You for a refuge.
143:10 求你指教我遵行你的旨意，因你是我的神；愿你至善的灵引我到平坦之地。
Teach me to do Your will, For You are my God; Let Your good Spirit lead me In a plain country.
143:11 耶和华阿，求你为你的名将我救活；凭你的公义，将我从患难中领出来；
For Your name's sake, O Jehovah, preserve me alive; In Your righteousness bring my soul out of trouble.
143:12 凭你的慈爱剪除我的仇敌，灭绝一切欺压我的人，因我是你的仆人。
And in Your lovingkindness cut off my enemies And destroy all those who oppress my soul, For I am Your servant.
诗篇 Psalms 第 144 篇
144:1 耶和华我的磐石，是当受颂赞的；祂教导我的手争战，教导我的指头打仗。
Blessed be Jehovah my rock, Who teaches my hands for war And my fingers for battle:
144:2 祂是我慈爱的主，我的山寨，我的高台，我的搭救者，我的盾牌，是我所投靠的；祂使我的百姓服在我以下。
My Lord of lovingkindness and my fortress, My high retreat and my Deliverer, My shield and He in whom I take refuge, Who subdues my people under me.
144:3 耶和华阿，人算什么，你竟认识他？世人算什么，你竟顾念他？
O Jehovah, what is man, that You take knowledge of him, And the son of man, that You think of him?
144:4 人好像一口气；他的年日如同影儿过去。
Man is like a breath; His days are like a passing shadow.
144:5 耶和华阿，求你使天下垂，亲自降临；摸山，山就冒烟。
O Jehovah, bow Your heavens down and descend; Touch the mountains, and they will smoke.
144:6 求你发出闪电，使仇敌四散；射出你的箭，使他们溃乱。
Flash forth lightning, and scatter them; Send forth Your arrows, and discomfit them.
144:7 求你从高处伸手救拔我，拯救我出离大水，脱离外邦人的手；
Stretch forth Your hand from on high; Rescue me and deliver me From the great waters, From the hand of foreigners;
144:8 他们的口说虚谎的话，他们的右手是起假誓的右手。
622
Whose mouth speaks deceit, And whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood.
144:9 神阿，我要向你唱新歌；用十弦瑟向你歌颂；
O God, I will sing a new song to You; Upon a harp of ten strings I will sing psalms to You,
144:10 你是那使君王得救的，你是那救仆人大卫脱离害命之刀的。
Who gives salvation to kings, Who rescues David His servant from the hurtful sword.
144:11 求你救拔我，拯救我脱离外邦人的手；他们的口说虚谎的话；他们的右手是起假誓的右手。
Rescue me and deliver me from the hand of foreigners, Whose mouth speaks deceit, And whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood.
144:12 愿我们的儿子，从幼年好像树木长大；愿我们的女儿，如同房角的柱石，是按宫殿的样式凿成的；
May our sons be like plants Grown up in their youth; May our daughters be like corner pillars Hewn out in fashion for a palace;
144:13 愿我们的仓盈满，能出各样的粮食；愿我们的羊，在田间孳生千万。
May our barns be full, Furnishing produce of all kinds; May our sheep bring forth thousands And ten thousands in our fields;
144:14 愿我们的牛驮着满驮；愿无人闯进来抢夺，也无人出去争战，我们的街市上也无哭号的声音。
May our oxen be fully laden; May there be no breaking in to rob or going forth to fight, Or outcry in our streets.
144:15 有这样光景的百姓，便为有福；有耶和华为他们的神，这百姓便为有福。
Blessed are the people who are so; Blessed are the people whose God is Jehovah.
诗篇 Psalms 第 145 篇
145:1 我的神我的王阿，我要尊崇你；我要永永远远颂赞你的名。
I will extol You, O my God and King; And I will bless Your name forever and ever.
145:2 我要天天颂赞你，我要永永远远赞美你的名。
Every day I will bless You, And I will praise Your name forever and ever.
145:3 耶和华本为大，该受大赞美；其大无法测度。
Great is Jehovah, and much to be praised; And His greatness is unsearchable.
145:4 这一代要对另一代称颂你的作为，他们要传扬你的大能。
One generation will laud Your works to another, And they will declare Your mighty acts.
145:5 我要默想你威严的尊荣，和你奇妙的作为。
Upon the glorious splendor of Your majesty And upon Your wondrous works I will muse.
145:6 人要讲说你可畏之事的能力，我也要述说你的伟大。
And men will speak of the might of Your awesome deeds, And I will declare Your greatness.
145:7 他们要记念且说出你至大的美善，并要欢唱你的公义。
They will utter the memory of Your great goodness And will sing for joy of Your righteousness.
145:8 耶和华有恩典，有怜恤，不轻易发怒，大有慈爱。
Jehovah is gracious and compassionate, Long-suffering and great in lovingkindness.
145:9 耶和华善待万有，祂的怜恤覆庇祂一切所造的。
Jehovah is good to all, And His compassions are upon all His works.
145:10 耶和华阿，你一切所造的，都要赞美你；你的虔诚人也要颂赞你。
All Your works will praise You, O Jehovah; And Your faithful ones will bless You.
145:11 他们要讲说你国的荣耀，谈论你的大能，
They will speak of the glory of Your kingdom And tell of Your power,
145:12 好叫世人知道你大能的作为，并你国度的威荣。
To make known to the sons of men Your mighty acts And the glorious splendor of Your kingdom.
145:13 你的国是永远的国，你的管治权存到万代。
Your kingdom is an eternal kingdom, And Your dominion is throughout all generations.
145:14 耶和华扶持一切跌倒的人，扶起一切被压下的人。
Jehovah upholds all who are falling And raises up all who are bowed down.
145:15 众人的眼目都仰望你，你按时给他们食物。
The eyes of everyone wait for You, And You give them their food in due season.
145:16 你张开手，使一切有生命的物都随愿饱足。
You open up Your hand And satisfy the desire of every living thing.
145:17 耶和华在祂一切所行的，无不公义；在祂一切所作的，都有慈爱。
Jehovah is righteous in all His ways, And faithfully kind in all His doings.
145:18 凡呼求耶和华的，就是真实呼求祂的，耶和华便与他们相近。
Jehovah is near to all who call upon Him, To all who call upon Him in truth.
145:19 敬畏祂的，祂必成就他们的心愿，也必听他们的呼求，拯救他们。
He will fulfill the desire of those who fear Him, And He will hear their cry and save them.
145:20 耶和华保护一切爱祂的人，却要灭绝一切的恶人。
Jehovah preserves all who love Him, But He will destroy all the wicked.
145:21 我的口要说出赞美耶和华的话，凡有血肉的都要永永远远颂赞祂的圣名。
My mouth will speak the praise of Jehovah, And all flesh will bless His holy name forever and ever.
诗篇 Psalms 第 146 篇
146:1 阿利路亚！我的魂哪，你要赞美耶和华！
623
Hallelujah! Praise Jehovah, O my soul!
146:2 我一生要赞美耶和华；我还活着的时候，要歌颂我的神。
I will praise Jehovah while I live; I will sing psalms to my God while I yet have being.
146:3 你们不要倚靠尊贵人，不要倚靠世人，他一点不能拯救。
Do not trust in princes, In a son of man, with whom there is no salvation.
146:4 他的气一断，就归回尘土；他所打算的，当日就销灭了。
His breath goes forth; he returns to his earth; On that day his plans perish.
146:5 以雅各的神为帮助，仰望耶和华他神的，这人便为有福。
Blessed is the man whose help is the God of Jacob, Whose hope is in Jehovah his God,
146:6 耶和华造天、地、海、和其中的万物；祂守信实，直到永远；
Who made heaven and earth And the sea, and all that is in them; Who keeps faith forever;
146:7 祂为受欺压的伸冤，赐食物给饥饿的。耶和华释放被囚的；
Who executes judgment for the oppressed; Who gives food to the famished. Jehovah frees the prisoners;
146:8 耶和华开了瞎子的眼睛；耶和华扶起被压下的人；耶和华喜爱义人；
Jehovah opens the eyes of the blind; Jehovah raises up those who are bowed down; Jehovah loves the righteous;
146:9 耶和华保护寄居的，扶持孤儿和寡妇，却使恶人的道路弯曲。
Jehovah preserves the sojourners; He upholds the orphan and the widow; But He subverts the way of the wicked.
146:10 耶和华要作王，直到永远，锡安哪，你的神要作王，直到万代！阿利路亚！
Jehovah will reign forever, Your God, O Zion, forever and ever. Hallelujah!
诗篇 Psalms 第 147 篇
147:1 阿利路亚！歌颂我们的神，这本为美善；赞美的话是合宜的。
Hallelujah! For it is good to sing psalms to our God; For it is pleasant; praise is fitting.
147:2 耶和华建造耶路撒冷，聚集以色列被赶散的人。
Jehovah builds up Jerusalem; He gathers the outcasts of Israel.
147:3 祂医好伤心的人，缠裹他们的伤处。
He heals the brokenhearted And binds up their wounds.
147:4 祂数点星宿的数目，一一给它们起名。
He counts the number of the stars; He calls them all by their names.
147:5 我们的主为大，大有能力；祂的聪明无穷无尽。
Great is our Lord, and mighty in power; His understanding is infinite.
147:6 耶和华扶持卑微的人，将恶人贬降于地。
Jehovah uplifts the lowly; He brings the wicked down to the ground.
147:7 你们要以感谢向耶和华歌唱，用琴向我们的神歌颂；
Sing unto Jehovah with thanksgiving; Sing psalms to our God with the lyre;
147:8 祂用云遮天，为地备雨，使草生长在山上，
Who covers the heavens with clouds, Who prepares rain for the earth, Who causes grass to grow on the mountains,
147:9 赐食物给走兽和啼叫的小乌鸦。
Who gives to the beast its food, And to the young ravens who cry.
147:10 祂不喜悦马的力大，不喜爱人的腿快。
He takes no delight in the strength of horses; Nor pleasure in the legs of man.
147:11 耶和华喜爱敬畏祂和盼望祂慈爱的人。
Jehovah takes pleasure in those who fear Him, In those who hope in His lovingkindness.
147:12 耶路撒冷阿，你要颂赞耶和华；锡安哪，你要称颂你的神；
Laud Jehovah, O Jerusalem; Praise your God, O Zion;
147:13 因为祂坚固了你城门的门闩，赐福给你中间的儿女。
For He has strengthened the bars of your gates; He has blessed your children within you.
147:14 祂使你境内平安；用上好的麦子使你饱足。
He makes peace in your borders; He satisfies you with the finest wheat.
147:15 祂向地发出命令；祂的话速速传开。
He sends forth His command to the earth; His word runs very swiftly.
147:16 祂降雪如羊毛，撒霜如炉灰。
He gives snow like wool; He scatters frost like ashes;
147:17 祂掷下冰雹如碎渣；祂发出寒冷，谁能受得住呢？
He casts His hail like crumbs-Who can stand before His cold?
147:18 祂一发出祂的话，这些就都融化；祂使风刮起，水便流动。
He sends forth His word and melts them; He causes His wind to blow; the waters flow.
147:19 祂将祂的话指示雅各，将祂的律例和典章指示以色列。
He declares His word to Jacob, His statutes and His ordinances to Israel.
147:20 别国祂都没有这样对待过；至于祂的典章，他们向来都不知道。阿利路亚！
He has not dealt so with any other nation; And as for His ordinances, they have not known them. Hallelujah!
624
诗篇 Psalms 第 148 篇
148:1 阿利路亚！你们要从天上赞美耶和华，要在高处赞美祂。
Hallelujah! Praise Jehovah from the heavens; Praise Him in the heights.
148:2 祂的众使者都要赞美祂；祂的众军都要赞美祂。
Praise Him, all His angels; Praise Him, all His hosts.
148:3 日头月亮，你们要赞美祂；放光的众星，你们都要赞美祂。
Praise Him, sun and moon; Praise Him, all stars of light.
148:4 诸天的天，和诸天之上的水，你们都要赞美祂。
Praise Him, you heaven of heavens, And you waters that are above the heavens.
148:5 愿这些都赞美耶和华的名；因祂一吩咐，这些便都造成。
Let them praise the name of Jehovah; For He commanded, and they were created.
148:6 祂将这些立定，直到永永远远；祂颁布了命令，就不能废去。
And He established them forever and ever; He gave the decree which shall not pass away.
148:7 你们要从地上赞美耶和华，大鱼和一切深渊，
Praise Jehovah from the earth, You sea monsters and all the depths;
148:8 火与冰雹，雪和烟雾，执行祂话的狂风，
Fire and hail, snow and smoke; Stormy wind that executes His word;
148:9 大山和一切小山，结果子的树木和一切香柏树，
Mountains and all hills; Fruit trees and all cedars;
148:10 野兽和一切牲畜，爬物和飞鸟，
Animals wild and tame; Creeping things and birds of flight;
148:11 地上的君王和万民，首领和地上一切审判官，
Kings of the earth and all peoples; Princes and all judges of the earth;
148:12 少年人以及处女，老年人并孩童，都当赞美耶和华。
Choice young men as well as virgins; Old men with young men.
148:13 愿这些都赞美耶和华的名，因为独有祂的名被尊崇；祂的荣美超乎天地之上。
Let them praise the name of Jehovah, For His name alone is exalted; His glory is above the earth and the heavens.
148:14 祂已将祂百姓的角举起，使祂一切圣民以色列人，就是与祂相近的百姓，都赞美祂。阿利路亚！
And He has raised up a horn for His people, The praise of all His faithful ones, The children of Israel, a people near to Him. Hallelujah!
诗篇 Psalms 第 149 篇
149:1 阿利路亚！你们要向耶和华唱新歌，在圣民的会中唱出对祂的赞美。
Hallelujah! Sing a new song to Jehovah; Sing His praise in the congregation of His faithful ones.
149:2 愿以色列因造他的主喜乐；愿锡安的民因他们的王欢腾。
Let Israel rejoice in his Maker; Let the children of Zion exult in their King.
149:3 愿他们跳舞赞美祂的名，击鼓弹琴歌颂祂。
Let them praise His name with dancing; Let them sing psalms to Him with the tambourine and the lyre.
149:4 因为耶和华喜爱祂的百姓；祂用救恩给低微的人作妆饰。
For Jehovah takes pleasure in His people; He adorns the lowly with salvation.
149:5 愿圣民在荣耀中欢乐；愿他们在床上欢呼。
Let the faithful ones exult in glory; Let them give a ringing shout upon their beds.
149:6 愿他们口中称赞神为高，愿他们手里有两刃的刀，
Let the high praises of God be in their throats, And a two-edged sword in their hand,
149:7 为要报复列邦，刑罚众民；
To execute vengeance on the nations And punishment among the peoples;
149:8 要用链子捆他们的君王，用铁镣锁他们的尊贵人；
To bind their kings with fetters And their nobles with chains of iron;
149:9 要在他们身上施行所记录的审判。祂的圣民都有这尊荣。阿利路亚！
To execute upon them the judgment written. This honor is for all His faithful ones. Hallelujah!
诗篇 Psalms 第 150 篇
150:1 阿利路亚！你们要在神的圣所赞美祂，在祂显能力的穹苍赞美祂。
Hallelujah! Praise God in His sanctuary; Praise Him in the firmament of His power.
150:2 要因祂大能的作为赞美祂，按着祂的宏伟至大赞美祂。
Praise Him for His mighty acts; Praise Him according to His vast greatness.
150:3 要用角声赞美祂，鼓瑟弹琴赞美祂；
Praise Him with the blast of the trumpet; Praise Him with the harp and lyre;
150:4 击鼓跳舞赞美祂，用丝弦的乐器和箫的声音赞美祂；
Praise Him with the tambourine and with dancing; Praise Him with the stringed instrument and the pipe.
150:5 用大响的钹赞美祂，用高声的钹赞美祂。
Praise Him with the loud cymbals; Praise Him with the loud clanging cymbals.
150:6 凡有气息的，都要赞美耶和华。阿利路亚！
Let everything that has breath praise Jehovah. Hallelujah!