45. 罗马书 Romans
罗马书 Romans 第 1 章
1:1 基督耶稣的奴仆保罗，蒙召的使徒，被分别出来归于神福音的；
Paul, a slave of Christ Jesus, a called apostle, separated unto the gospel of God,
1:2 这福音是神从前借着祂的众申言者，在圣经上所应许的，
Which He promised beforehand through His prophets in the holy Scriptures,
1:3 论到祂的儿子，我们的主耶稣基督：按肉体说，是从大卫后裔生的，
Concerning His Son, who came out of the seed of David according to the flesh,
1:4 按圣别的灵说，是从死人的复活，以大能标出为神的儿子；
Who was designated the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of holiness out of the resurrection of the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord;
1:5 我们借着祂，领受了恩典和使徒的职分，为祂的名在万国中使人顺从信仰，
Through whom we have received grace and apostleship unto the obedience of faith among all the Gentiles on behalf of His name,
1:6 其中也有你们这蒙召属耶稣基督的人；
Among whom you also are the called ones of Jesus Christ;
1:7 写信给一切在罗马，为神所爱，蒙召的圣徒。愿恩典与平安，从神我们的父，并主耶稣基督归与你们。
To all who are in Rome, beloved of God, the called saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1:8 首先，我借着耶稣基督，为你们众人感谢我的神，因你们的信心传遍了全世界。
First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all because your faith is proclaimed throughout the whole world.
1:9 我在祂儿子的福音上，在我灵里所事奉的神，可以见证我怎样在祷告中，常常不住的提到你们，
For God is my witness, whom I serve in my spirit in the gospel of His Son, how unceasingly I make mention of you always in my prayers,
1:10 祈求神，或许在祂的旨意中，终能顺利的往你们那里去。
Beseeching if by any means now at last I may be prospered in the will of God to come to you.
1:11 因为我切切的想见你们，要把些属灵的恩赐分给你们，使你们得以坚固；
For I long to see you that I may impart to you some spiritual gift so that you may be established;
1:12 这样，我在你们中间，因你们与我彼此的信心，就可以同得鼓励。
That is, that I with you may be encouraged among you through the faith which is in one another, both yours and mine.
1:13 弟兄们，我不愿意你们不知道，我屡次定意往你们那里去，要在你们中间也得些果子，如同在其余的外邦人中一样，只是到如今仍有拦阻。
And I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, that often I purposed to come to you (yet was hindered until the present), that I might have some fruit among you
also, even as among the rest of the Gentiles.
1:14 无论对希利尼人还是对化外人，无论对智慧人还是对愚拙人，我都是欠债的。
I am debtor both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to wise and to foolish;
1:15 所以在我，我已经预备好，要将福音也传给你们在罗马的人。
So, for my part, I am ready to announce the gospel to you also who are in Rome.
1:16 我不以福音为耻；这福音本是神的大能，要救一切信的人，先是犹太人，后是希利尼人。
For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one who believes, both to Jew first and to Greek.
1:17 因为神的义在这福音上，本于信显示与信，如经上所记：“义人必本于信得生并活着。”
For the righteousness of God is revealed in it out of faith to faith, as it is written, "But the righteous shall have life and live by faith.''
1:18 原来神的忿怒，从天上显示在那些以不义抑制真理之人一切的不虔不义上。
For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven upon all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold down the truth in unrighteousness,
1:19 因为神的事情，人所能知道的，原显明在人里面，因为神已经给他们显明了。
Because that which is known of God is manifest within them, for God manifested it to them.
1:20 自从创造世界以来，神那看不见永远的大能，和神性的特征，是人所洞见的，乃是借着受造之物，给人晓得的，叫人无法推诿；
For the invisible things of Him, both His eternal power and divine characteristics, have been clearly seen since the creation of the world, being perceived by the
things made, so that they would be without excuse;
1:21 因为他们虽然知道神，却不当作神荣耀祂，也不感谢祂，反倒在他们的推想上变为虚妄，他们无知的心就昏暗了。
Because though they knew God, they did not glorify Him as God or thank Him, but rather became vain in their reasonings, and their heart, lacking understanding,
was darkened.
1:22 他们自称是智慧的，反成了愚拙的，
Professing to be wise, they became fools
1:23 将不能朽坏之神的荣耀，改换为必朽坏的人、飞禽、走兽和爬物之像的样式。
And changed the glory of the incorruptible God into the likeness of an image of corruptible man and of birds and four-footed animals and reptiles.
1:24 所以神任凭他们逞着心里的情欲，陷入污秽中，以致彼此玷辱自己的身体。
Therefore God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to uncleanness, so that they dishonor their bodies among themselves,
1:25 他们将神的真实换为虚谎，去敬拜事奉受造之物，不敬拜事奉那创造者；祂乃是当受颂赞的，直到永远。阿们。
Who exchanged the truth of God for the lie, and worshipped and served the creation rather than the Creator, who is blessed forever. Amen.
1:26 因此，神任凭他们陷入可耻的情欲：他们的女人把顺性的用处换为逆性的用处；
Therefore God gave them up to passions of dishonor; for their females exchanged the natural use for that which is contrary to nature;
1:27 男人也是如此，弃了女人顺性的用处，欲火中烧，彼此贪恋，男和男行可耻的事，就在自己身上受这妄为当得的报应。
And likewise also the males, leaving the natural use of the female, burned in their craving toward one another, males with males committing unseemliness and
fully receiving in themselves the retribution of their error which was due.
1:28 他们既然不以认识神为美，神就任凭他们存可弃绝的心思，行那些不合宜的事，
And even as they did not approve of holding God in their full knowledge, God gave them up to a disapproved mind, to do the things which are not fitting,
1:29 充满了各样不义、邪恶、贪婪、恶毒，满了嫉妒、凶杀、争竞、诡诈、毒恨；
Being filled with all unrighteousness, wickedness, covetousness, malice; full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malignity;
1:30 又是谗毁人的，背后说人的，憎恨神的，侮慢人的，狂傲的，自夸的，捏造恶事的，违背父母的，
Whisperers, slanderers, hateful to God, insolent, arrogant, boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents,
1:31 无知的，背约的，无亲情的，无怜悯的。
Senseless, faithless, affectionless, merciless;
1:32 他们虽明知神公义的判决，行这样事的人是当死的，然而他们不但自己去行，还与那些行这样事的人同欢，以他们为乐。
Who, though fully knowing the righteous judgment of God, that those who practice such things are worthy of death, not only do them, but also have fellow delight
in those who practice them.
罗马书 Romans 第 2 章
2:1 人哪，每一个审判人的！你是无法推诿的，你在什么事上审判人，就在什么事上定自己的罪；因你这审判人的，也行同样的事。
Therefore you are without excuse, O every man who judges, for in what you judge another you condemn yourself; for you who judge practice the same things.
2:2 我们知道行这样事的人，神必按真理审判他。
But we know that the judgment of God is according to truth upon those who practice such things.
2:3 人哪，你审判行这样事的人，自己却照样行，你以为能逃脱神的审判么？
And do you consider this, O man, who judge those who practice such things and do the same yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God?
2:4 还是你藐视祂丰富的恩慈、宽容与恒忍，不晓得神的恩慈是领你悔改？
Or do you despise the riches of His kindness and forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing that God's kindness is leading you to repentance?
2:5 你竟任着你刚硬不悔改的心，为自己在神动怒并显示祂公义审判的日子，积蓄忿怒。
But, according to your hardness and your unrepentant heart, you are storing up for yourself wrath in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of
God,
2:6 祂必照各人的行为报应各人：
Who will render to each according to his works:
2:7 凡恒心行善，寻求荣耀、尊贵和不朽坏的，就以永远的生命报应他们；
To those who by endurance in good work seek glory and honor and incorruptibility, life eternal;
2:8 惟有私图好争，不信从真理，反信从不义的，就以忿怒、恼恨报应他们；
But to those who are selfishly contentious and disobedient to the truth and obey unrighteousness, wrath and fury.
2:9 将患难、困苦加给一切作恶的人，先是犹太人，后是希利尼人；
Tribulation and anguish upon every soul of man who commits evil, both of Jew first and of Greek;
2:10 却将荣耀、尊贵与平安加给一切行善的人，先是犹太人，后是希利尼人。
But glory and honor and peace to everyone who works good, both to Jew first and to Greek.
2:11 因为神并不偏待人。
For there is no respect of persons with God.
2:12 凡在律法以外犯了罪的，也必在律法以外灭亡；凡在律法以下犯了罪的，必按律法受审判，
For as many as have sinned without the law shall also perish without the law; and as many as have sinned under the law shall be judged by the law
2:13 （原来在神面前，不是听律法的为义，乃是行律法的称义。
(For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified.
2:14 没有律法的外邦人，若顺着本性行律法上的事，他们虽然没有律法，自己就是自己的律法：
For when Gentiles, who have no law, do by nature the things of the law, these, though they have no law, are a law to themselves,
2:15 他们显出那写在他们心里律法的功用，他们的良心同作见证，并且他们的思想互相控告或者也辩护。）
Who show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness with it and their reasonings, one with the other, accusing or even excusing
them.)
2:16 就是在神藉耶稣基督，照着我的福音，审判人隐秘事的日子。
In the day when God judges the secrets of men according to my gospel through Jesus Christ.
2:17 你名为犹太人，又倚靠律法，且指着神夸口，
But if you bear the name of Jew, and rest upon the law, and boast in God,
2:18 既从律法受了教导，就认识神的旨意，也能鉴赏那更美的事，
And know the will, and approve the things that are more excellent, being instructed out of the law,
2:19 又深信自己是给瞎子领路的，是黑暗中之人的光，
And have confidence that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those in darkness,
2:20 是愚昧人的管教者，是幼稚人的教师，在律法上有知识和真理的规模；
One who disciplines the foolish, a teacher of babes, having the proper form of the knowledge and truth in the law;
2:21 这样，你这教导别人的，不教导自己么？你这传讲不可偷窃的，自己偷窃么？
You therefore who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach not to steal, do you steal?
2:22 你这说不可奸淫的，自己奸淫么？你这憎恶偶像的，自己抢劫庙宇么？
You who say not to commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob their temples?
2:23 你指着律法夸口，自己却犯律法玷辱神么？
You who boast in the law, do you by transgression of the law dishonor God?
2:24 如经上所记：“神的名在外邦人中，因你们受了亵渎。”
For "the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you,'' even as it is written.
2:25 你若行律法，割礼固然于你有益；但你若是犯律法的，你的割礼就不算割礼。
For circumcision profits if you practice the law; but if you are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision.
2:26 所以那未受割礼的，若遵守律法的典章，他虽然未受割礼，岂不算是受割礼的么？
If therefore the uncircumcision keeps the ordinances of the law, will not his uncircumcision be accounted as circumcision?
2:27 而且那本来未受割礼的，若全守律法，就要审判你这有字句和割礼却犯律法的人。
And the uncircumcision by nature, if he fulfills the law, will judge you who through the letter and circumcision are a transgressor of the law.
2:28 因为外表上作犹太人的，并不是犹太人；外表上肉体的割礼，也不是割礼。
For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly; neither is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh.
2:29 惟有在内里作的，才是犹太人；割礼也是心里的，在于灵，不在于字句。这人的称赞，不是从人来的，乃是从神来的。
But he is a Jew who is one inwardly; and circumcision is of the heart, in spirit, not in letter, whose praise is not from men, but from God.
罗马书 Romans 第 3 章
3:1 这样，犹太人有什么长处？割礼有什么益处？
What then is the advantage of the Jew? Or what is the profit of circumcision?
3:2 各方面都很多。第一，是神的谕言信托了他们。
Much in every way. First, that they were entrusted with the oracles of God.
3:3 即便有不信的，这有何妨？难道他们的不信，就废掉神的信么？
For what if some disbelieved? Shall their unbelief annul the faithfulness of God?
3:4 绝对不能！神总是真实的，人都是虚谎的，如经上所记：“好叫你说话的时候，显为公义；被人审判的时候，可以得胜。”
Absolutely not! But let God be true and every man a liar, as it is written, "That You may be declared righteous in Your words and may overcome when You are
judged.''
3:5 我且照着人的常话说，我们的不义若显出神的义来，我们要说什么？神降怒，难道是祂不义么？
But if our unrighteousness commends the righteousness of God, what shall we say? Is the God who inflicts wrath unrighteous? I speak according to man.
3:6 绝对不是！若是这样，神怎能审判世界？
Absolutely not! Otherwise how shall God judge the world?
3:7 但神的真实，若因我的虚谎，越发洋溢出祂的荣耀，为什么我还受审判像罪人一样？
But if the truthfulness of God has abounded in my lie unto His glory, why still am I also being judged as a sinner?
3:8 为什么不说，让我们作恶以成善？这是我们所受的毁谤，也是有些人硬说我们有这话。这等人受审判是该当的。
And why not say (as we are slanderously charged and as some affirm that we say), Let us do evil that good may come? whose judgment is just.
3:9 这却怎么样？我们比他们强么？绝对没有！因我们已经指控，犹太人和希利尼人都在罪之下，
What then? Are we better? Not at all! For we have previously charged both Jews and Greeks that they are all under sin,
3:10 就如经上所记：“没有义人，连一个也没有，
Even as it is written, "There is none righteous, not even one;
3:11 没有明白的，没有寻求神的；
There is none who understands, there is none who seeks out God.
3:12 都是偏离正路，一同变为无用；没有行善的，连一个也没有。
All have turned aside; together they have become useless; there is none who does good; there is not so much as one.
3:13 他们的喉咙是敞开的坟墓，他们用舌头弄诡诈，嘴唇里有虺蛇的毒气，
Their throat is an opened grave; with their tongues they practiced deceit; the poison of asps is under their lips;
3:14 他们满口是咒骂苦毒；
Whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness.
3:15 杀人流血，他们的脚飞跑，
Swift are their feet to shed blood,
3:16 在他们所经过的路上，遍行毁坏和祸害，
Destruction and misery are in their ways,
3:17 平安的路，他们未曾知道；
And the way of peace they have not known.
3:18 他们眼中不怕神。”
There is no fear of God before their eyes.''
3:19 我们晓得律法上的话，都是对律法以下之人说的，好堵住各人的口，叫普世的人都伏在神的审判之下。
Now we know that whatever things the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped and all the world may fall under
the judgment of God;
3:20 因为凡属肉体的人，都不能本于行律法在神面前得称义，因为律法本是叫人知罪。
Because out of the works of the law no flesh shall be justified before Him; for through the law is the clear knowledge of sin.
3:21 但如今神的义在律法以外已经显明出来，有律法和申言者为证，
But now, apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, witness being borne to it by the Law and the Prophets;
3:22 就是神的义，借着信耶稣基督，归与一切信的人，并没有分别。
Even the righteousness of God through the faith of Jesus Christ to all those who believe, for there is no distinction;
3:23 因为众人都犯了罪，亏缺了神的荣耀，
For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God,
3:24 但因神的恩典，借着在基督耶稣里的救赎，就白白的得称义。
Being justified freely by His grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus;
3:25 神摆出基督耶稣作平息处，是凭着祂的血，借着人的信，为要在神以宽容越过人先时所犯的罪上，显示祂的义；
Whom God set forth as a propitiation place through faith in His blood, for the demonstrating of His righteousness, in that in His forbearance God passed over the
sins that had previously occurred,
3:26 为着在今时显示祂的义，使祂能是义的，也能称那以信耶稣为本的人为义。
With a view to the demonstrating of His righteousness in the present time, so that He might be righteous and the One who justifies him who is of the faith of Jesus.
3:27 既是这样，那里有可夸的？完全没有了！借着什么律？借着行的律么？不是，乃是借着信的律。
Where then is boasting? It is excluded. Through what kind of law? That of works? No, but through the law of faith.
3:28 因为我们算定了，人得称义是借着信，与行律法无关。
For we account that a man is justified by faith apart from the works of the law.
3:29 难道神只是犹太人的神么？不也是外邦人的么？是的，也是外邦人的；
Or is He the God of the Jews only? Is He not of the Gentiles also? Yes, of the Gentiles also,
3:30 神既是一位，祂就要本于信称那受割礼的为义，也要借着信称那未受割礼的为义。
If indeed God is one, who will justify the circumcision out of faith and the uncircumcision through faith.
3:31 这样，我们借着信使律法失效么？绝对不是！反而坚固了律法。
Do we then make the law of no effect through faith? Absolutely not! Rather, we establish the law.
罗马书 Romans 第 4 章
4:1 这样，我们可说我们的祖宗亚伯拉罕照着肉体得了什么？
What then shall we say that Abraham our forefather according to the flesh has found?
4:2 倘若亚伯拉罕是本于行为得称义，就有可夸的，只是在神面前并无可夸。
For if Abraham was justified out of works, he has something to boast in, but not before God.
4:3 原来经上说什么？说，“亚伯拉罕信神，这就算为他的义。”
For what does the Scripture say? "And Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him as righteousness.''
4:4 作工的得工价，不是照着恩典，乃是照着所该得者算的。
Now to the one who works, his wages are not accounted according to grace, but according to what is due.
4:5 惟有不作工，只信靠那称不虔者为义之神的，他的信就算为他的义。
But to the one who does not work, but believes on Him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is accounted as righteousness.
4:6 正如大卫也称那在行为以外，蒙神算为义的人为有福的：
Even as David also speaks blessing on the man to whom God accounts righteousness apart from works:
4:7 “不法得赦免，罪得遮盖的人，是有福的。
"Blessed are they whose lawlessnesses have been forgiven, and whose sins have been covered over.
4:8 主绝不算为有罪的人，是有福的。”
Blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall by no means account sin.''
4:9 如此，这称为有福的福是单加给受割礼的人，还是也加给未受割礼的人？因我们说，亚伯拉罕的信，就算为他的义，
Is this blessing then upon the circumcision only, or also upon the uncircumcision? For we say, Faith was accounted to Abraham as righteousness.
4:10 是怎么算的？是在他受割礼的时候，还是在他未受割礼的时候？不是在受割礼的时候，乃是在未受割礼的时候。
How then was it accounted? While he was in circumcision or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision.
4:11 并且他受了割礼的记号，作他未受割礼时那信之义的印记，叫他作一切未受割礼而信之人的父，使他们也算为义；
And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had while in uncircumcision, that he might be the father of all those in
uncircumcision who believe, that righteousness might be accounted to them also,
4:12 又作受割礼之人的父，就是那些不但受割礼，并且照我们祖宗亚伯拉罕，未受割礼时之信的脚踪而行的人。
And the father of circumcision to those who not only are of the circumcision, but who also walk in the steps of that faith of our father Abraham, which he had in
uncircumcision.
4:13 因为神应许亚伯拉罕，或他的后裔，必得承受世界，不是借着律法，乃是借着信的义。
For it was not through the law that the promise was made to Abraham or to his seed that he would be the heir of the world, but through the righteousness of faith.
4:14 若是本于律法的，才得为后嗣，信就成了虚空，应许也就失效了。
For if those of the law are heirs, faith has been made void and the promise has been annulled;
4:15 因为律法是惹动忿怒的；那里没有律法，那里就没有过犯。
For the law works out wrath; but where there is no law, neither is there transgression.
4:16 所以人得为后嗣是本于信，为要照着恩，使应许定然归给一切后裔，不但归给那本于律法的，也归给那本于亚伯拉罕之信的。
Therefore the inheritance is out of faith that it might be according to grace, so that the promise may be certain to all the seed, not to that which is of the law only,
but also to that which is of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all
4:17 亚伯拉罕在他所信那叫死人复活，又称无为有的神面前，是我们众人的父，如经上所记：“我已经立你作多国的父。”
(As it is written, "I have appointed you a father of many nations'') in the sight of God whom he believed, who gives life to the dead and calls the things not being
as being.
4:18 他在无可指望的时候，仍靠指望而信，就得以照先前所说，“你的后裔将要如此”的话，作多国的父。
He beyond hope believed in hope in order that he might become the father of many nations, according to that which was spoken, "So shall your seed be.''
4:19 他将近百岁的时候，虽然想到自己的身体如同已死，撒拉的生育也已断绝，他的信还是不软弱，
And not weakening in his faith, he considered his own body as already dead, being about a hundred years old, as well as the deadening of Sarah's womb;
4:20 总没有因不信而疑惑神的应许，反倒因信得着加力，将荣耀归与神，
But with regard to the promise of God, he did not doubt in unbelief, but was empowered by faith, giving glory to God
4:21 且满心确信，神所应许的，祂也必能作成；
And being fully persuaded that what He had promised He was able also to do.
4:22 所以这就算为他的义。
Therefore also it was accounted to him as righteousness.
4:23 算为他的义这句话，不是单为他写的，
Now it was not written for his sake only that it was accounted to him,
4:24 也是为我们将来得算为义的人，就是为我们这些信靠那使我们的主耶稣从死人中复活者的人写的。
But for ours also to whom it is to be accounted, who believe on Him who has raised Jesus our Lord from the dead,
4:25 耶稣被交给人是为我们的过犯，复活是为我们的称义。
Who was delivered for our offenses and was raised for our justification.
罗马书 Romans 第 5 章
5:1 所以，我们既本于信得称义，就借着我们的主耶稣基督，对神有了和平。
Therefore having been justified out of faith, we have peace toward God through our Lord Jesus Christ,
5:2 我们又借着祂，因信得进入现在所站的这恩典中，并且因盼望神的荣耀而夸耀。
Through whom also we have obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand and boast because of the hope of the glory of God.
5:3 不但如此，就是在患难中，我们也是夸耀，因为知道患难生忍耐，
And not only so, but we also boast in our tribulations, knowing that tribulation produces endurance;
5:4 忍耐生老练，老练生盼望，
And endurance, approvedness; and approvedness, hope;
5:5 盼望不至于蒙羞；因为神的爱已经借着所赐给我们的圣灵，浇灌在我们心里。
And hope does not put us to shame, because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us.
5:6 因我们还软弱的时候，基督就照所定的时期为不虔者死了。
For while we were yet weak, in due time Christ died for the ungodly.
5:7 为义人死，是少有的；为仁人死，或者有敢作的；
For scarcely for a righteous man will anyone die, though perhaps for the good man someone would even dare to die.
5:8 惟有基督在我们还作罪人的时候，为我们死，神就在此将祂自己的爱向我们显明了。
But God commends His own love to us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.
5:9 现在我们既因祂的血得称义，就更要借着祂得救脱离忿怒。
Much more then, having now been justified in His blood, we will be saved through Him from the wrath.
5:10 因为我们作仇敌的时候，且借着神儿子的死得与神和好，既已和好，就更要在祂的生命里得救了。
For if we, being enemies, were reconciled to God through the death of His Son, much more we will be saved in His life, having been reconciled,
5:11 不但如此，我们现今既借着我们的主耶稣基督，得与神和好，也就要借着祂，在神里面夸耀着，在祂的生命里得救了。
And not only so, but also boasting in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation.
5:12 这就如罪是借着一人入了世界，死又是借着罪来的，于是死就遍及众人，因为众人都犯了罪。
Therefore just as through one man sin entered into the world, and through sin, death; and thus death passed on to all men because all have sinned --
5:13 没有律法之先，罪已经在世上；但没有律法，罪也不算在账上。
For until the law sin was in the world, but sin is not charged to one's account when there is no law.
5:14 然而从亚当到摩西，死就作了王，连那些不照亚当过犯样式犯罪的，也在它的权下；亚当乃是那以后要来者的预像。
But death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those who had not sinned after the likeness of Adam's transgression, who is a type of Him who was to
come.
5:15 只是过犯不如恩赐；若因一人的过犯，多人都死了，神的恩典，与耶稣基督一人恩典中白白的恩赐，就更加洋溢的临到多人。
But it is not that as the offense was, so also the gracious gift is; for if by the offense of the one the many died, much more the grace of God and the free gift in
grace of the one man Jesus Christ have abounded to the many.
5:16 并且一人犯罪的结果，也不如白白的恩赐；因为审判是由于一次过犯而定罪，恩赐乃是由于许多过犯而称义。
And it is not that as through one who sinned, so also the free gift is; for the judgment was out of one offense unto condemnation, but the gracious gift is out of
many offenses unto justification.
5:17 若因一人的过犯，死就借着这一人作了王，那些受洋溢之恩，并洋溢之义恩赐的，就更要借着耶稣基督一人，在生命中作王了。
For if by the offense of the one death reigned through the one, much more those who receive the abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness will reign in
life through the One, Jesus Christ.
5:18 如此说来，借着一次的过犯，众人都被定罪，照样，借着一次的义行，众人也都被称义得生命了。
So then as it was through one offense unto condemnation to all men, so also it was through one righteous act unto justification of life to all men.
5:19 借着一人的悖逆，多人构成了罪人，照样，借着一人的顺从，多人也要构成义的了。
For just as through the disobedience of one man the many were constituted sinners, so also through the obedience of the One the many will be constituted
righteous.
5:20 律法插进来，是叫过犯增多，只是罪在那里增多，恩典就更洋溢了，
And the law entered in alongside that the offense might abound; but where sin abounded, grace has super-abounded,
5:21 使罪怎样在死中作王，恩典也照样借着义作王，叫人借着我们的主耶稣基督得永远的生命。
In order that just as sin reigned in death, so also grace might reign through righteousness unto eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.
罗马书 Romans 第 6 章
6:1 这样，我们可说什么？我们可以仍留在罪中，叫恩典增多么？
What then shall we say? Should we continue in sin that grace may abound?
6:2 绝对不可！我们这向罪死了的人，岂可仍在罪中活着？
Absolutely not! We who have died to sin, how shall we still live in it?
6:3 岂不知我们这浸入基督耶稣的人，是浸入祂的死么？
Or are you ignorant that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into His death?
6:4 所以我们借着浸入死，和祂一同埋葬，好叫我们在生命的新样中生活行动，像基督借着父的荣耀，从死人中复活一样。
We have been buried therefore with Him through baptism into His death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so
also we might walk in newness of life.
6:5 我们若在祂死的样式里与祂联合生长，也必要在祂复活的样式里与祂联合生长；
For if we have grown together with Him in the likeness of His death, indeed we will also be in the likeness of His resurrection,
6:6 知道我们的旧人已经与祂同钉十字架，使罪的身体失效，叫我们不再作罪的奴仆，
Knowing this, that our old man has been crucified with Him in order that the body of sin might be annulled, that we should no longer serve sin as slaves;
6:7 因为已死的人，是已经从罪开释了。
For he who has died is justified from sin.
6:8 我们若与基督同死，就信也必与祂同活，
Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with Him,
6:9 知道基督既从死人中复活，就不再死，死也不再作主管辖祂了。
Knowing that Christ, having been raised from the dead, dies no more; death lords it over Him no more.
6:10 因为祂死，是一次永远的向罪死了；祂活，是向神活着。
For the death which He died, He died to sin once for all; but the life which He lives, He lives to God.
6:11 这样，你们在基督耶稣里，向罪也当算自己是死的，向神却当算自己是活的。
So also you, reckon yourselves to be dead to sin, but living to God in Christ Jesus.
6:12 所以不要让罪在你们必死的身体里作王，使你们顺从身体的私欲，
Do not let sin therefore reign in your mortal body so that you obey the body's lusts;
6:13 也不要将你们的肢体献给罪作不义的兵器；倒要像从死人中活过来的人，将自己献给神，并将你们的肢体献给神作义的兵器。
Neither present your members as weapons of unrighteousness to sin, but present yourselves to God as alive from the dead, and your members as weapons of
righteousness to God.
6:14 罪必不能作主管辖你们，因你们不在律法之下，乃在恩典之下。
For sin will not lord it over you, for you are not under the law but under grace.
6:15 这却怎么样？因我们不在律法之下，乃在恩典之下，就可以犯罪么？绝对不可！
What then? Should we sin, because we are not under the law but under grace? Absolutely not!
6:16 岂不晓得你们将自己献给谁作奴仆，以至于顺从，就作了你们所顺从者的奴仆么？或作罪的奴仆，以至于死，或作顺从的奴仆，以至于义。
Do you not know that to whom you present yourselves as slaves for obedience, his slaves you are whom you obey, whether of sin unto death or of obedience
unto righteousness?
6:17 感谢神，你们从前虽然作罪的奴仆，现今却从心里顺从了你们被交于其中之教训的规模。
But thanks be to God that though you were slaves of sin, you have obeyed from the heart the form of teaching into which you were delivered.
6:18 你们既从罪里得了释放，就作了义的奴仆。
And having been freed from sin, you were enslaved to righteousness.
6:19 我因你们肉体的软弱，就照着人的常情说，你们从前怎样将肢体献给不洁不法作奴仆，以至于不法，现今也要照样将肢体献给义作奴仆，以至于圣别。
I speak in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh. For just as you presented your members as slaves to uncleanness and lawlessness unto
lawlessness, so now present your members as slaves to righteousness unto sanctification.
6:20 因为你们作罪之奴仆的时候，就不受义的约束。
For when you were slaves of sin, you were free with regard to righteousness.
6:21 那时你们有什么果子？不过是你们现今所看为羞耻的事，那些事的结局就是死。
What fruit then did you have at that time? Things of which you are now ashamed, for the end of those things is death.
6:22 但现今你们既从罪里得了释放，作了神的奴仆，就有圣别的果子，结局就是永远的生命。
But now, having been freed from sin and enslaved to God, you have your fruit unto sanctification, and the end, eternal life.
6:23 因为罪的工价乃是死，惟有神的恩赐，在我们的主基督耶稣里，乃是永远的生命。
For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.
罗马书 Romans 第 7 章
7:1 弟兄们，我现在对明白律法的人说，你们岂不知律法作主管辖人，是在他活着的时候么？
Or are you ignorant, brothers (for I speak to those who know the law), that the law lords it over the man as long as he lives?
7:2 女人有了丈夫，丈夫还活着，就受律法约束，归与丈夫；丈夫若死了，就脱离了丈夫的律法。
For the married woman is bound by the law to her husband while he is living; but if the husband dies, she is discharged from the law regarding the husband.
7:3 所以，丈夫活着，她若归与别的男人，便叫淫妇；丈夫若死了，她就脱离了那律法，虽然归与别的男人，也不是淫妇。
So then if, while the husband is living, she is joined to another man, she will be called an adulteress; but if the husband dies, she is free from the law, so that she
is not an adulteress, though she is joined to another man.
7:4 我的弟兄们，这样说来，你们借着基督的身体，向着律法也已经是死的了，叫你们归与别人，就是归与那从死人中复活的，使我们结果子给神。
So then, my brothers, you also have been made dead to the law through the body of Christ so that you might be joined to another, to Him who has been raised
from the dead, that we might bear fruit to God.
7:5 因为我们在肉体中的时候，那借着律法活动的罪欲，就在我们肢体中发动，以致结果子给死。
For when we were in the flesh, the passions for sins, which acted through the law, operated in our members to bear fruit to death.
7:6 但我们既然在捆我们的律法上死了，现今就脱离了律法，叫我们在灵的新样里服事，不在字句的旧样里。
But now we have been discharged from the law, having died to that in which we were held, so that we serve in newness of spirit and not in oldness of letter.
7:7 这样，我们可说什么？律法是罪么？绝对不是！只是非藉律法，我就不知何为罪；非律法说，“不可起贪心，”我就不知何为贪心。
What then shall we say? Is the law sin? Absolutely not! But I did not know sin except through the law; for neither did I know coveting, except the law had said,
"You shall not covet.''
7:8 然而罪借着诫命得着机会，叫诸般的贪心在我里面发动，因为没有律法，罪是死的。
But sin, seizing the opportunity through the commandment, worked out in me coveting of every kind; for without the law sin is dead.
7:9 我以前没有律法是活着的，但是诫命来到，罪又活了，我就死了。
And I was alive without the law once; but when the commandment came, sin revived and I died.
7:10 那本来叫人得生命的诫命，反倒成了叫我死的；
And the commandment, which was unto life, this very commandment was found to me to be unto death.
7:11 因为罪借着诫命得着机会，诱骗了我，并且借着诫命杀了我。
For sin, seizing the opportunity through the commandment, deceived me and through it killed me.
7:12 这样看来，律法是圣的，诫命也是圣的、义的并善的。
So then the law is holy, and the commandment holy and righteous and good.
7:13 这样，那善的是叫我死么？绝对不是！然而罪为要显出真是罪，就借着那善的叫我死，使罪借着诫命成为极其罪恶的。
Did then that which is good become death to me? Absolutely not! But sin did, that it might be shown to be sin by working out death in me through that which is
good, that sin through the commandment might become exceedingly sinful.
7:14 我们原晓得律法是属灵的，但我是属肉的，是已经卖给罪了。
For we know that the law is spiritual; but I am fleshy, sold under sin.
7:15 因为我所行出来的，我不认可；我所愿意的，我并不作；我所恨恶的，我倒去作。
For what I work out, I do not acknowledge; for what I will, this I do not practice; but what I hate, this I do.
7:16 若我所作的，是我所不愿意的，我就同意律法是善的。
But if what I do not will, this I do, I agree with the law that it is good.
7:17 其实，不是我行出来的，乃是住在我里面的罪行出来的。
Now then it is no longer I that work it out but sin that dwells in me.
7:18 我知道住在我里面，就是我肉体之中，并没有善，因为立志为善由得我，只是行出来由不得我。
For I know that in me, that is, in my flesh, nothing good dwells; for to will is present with me, but to work out the good is not.
7:19 因为我所愿意的善，我反不作；我所不愿意的恶，我倒去作。
For I do not do the good which I will; but the evil which I do not will, this I practice.
7:20 若我去作所不愿意的，就不是我行出来的，乃是住在我里面的罪行出来的。
But if what I do not will, this I do, it is no longer I that work it out but sin that dwells in me.
7:21 于是我发现那律与我这愿意为善的人同在，就是那恶与我同在。
I find then the law with me who wills to do the good, that is, the evil is present with me.
7:22 因为按着里面的人，我是喜欢神的律，
For I delight in the law of God according to the inner man,
7:23 但我看出我肢体中另有个律，和我心思的律交战，借着那在我肢体中罪的律，把我掳去。
But I see a different law in my members, warring against the law of my mind and making me a captive to the law of sin which is in my members.
7:24 我是个苦恼的人！谁要救我脱离那属这死的身体？
Wretched man that I am! Who will deliver me from the body of this death?
7:25 感谢神，借着我们的主耶稣基督！这样看来，我自己用心思服事神的律，却用肉体服事罪的律。
Thanks be to God, through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then with the mind I myself serve the law of God, but with the flesh, the law of sin.
罗马书 Romans 第 8 章
8:1 如此，现今那些在基督耶稣里的，就没有定罪了。
There is now then no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus.
8:2 因为生命之灵的律，在基督耶稣里已经释放了我，使我脱离了罪与死的律。
For the law of the Spirit of life has freed me in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and of death.
8:3 律法因肉体而软弱，有所不能的，神，既在罪之肉体的样式里，并为着罪，差来了自己的儿子，就在肉体中定罪了罪，
For that which the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God, sending His own Son in the likeness of the flesh of sin and concerning sin,
condemned sin in the flesh,
8:4 使律法义的要求，成就在我们这不照着肉体，只照着灵而行的人身上。
That the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who do not walk according to the flesh but according to the spirit.
8:5 因为照着肉体的人，思念肉体的事；照着灵的人，思念那灵的事。
For those who are according to the flesh mind the things of the flesh; but those who are according to the spirit, the things of the Spirit.
8:6 因为心思置于肉体，就是死；心思置于灵，乃是生命平安。
For the mind set on the flesh is death, but the mind set on the spirit is life and peace.
8:7 因为置于肉体的心思，是与神为仇，因它不服神的律法，也是不能服；
Because the mind set on the flesh is enmity against God; for it is not subject to the law of God, for neither can it be.
8:8 而且在肉体里的人，不能得神的喜悦。
And those who are in the flesh cannot please God.
8:9 但神的灵若住在你们里面，你们就不在肉体里，乃在灵里了；然而人若没有基督的灵，就不是属基督的。
But you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you. Yet if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he is not of Him.
8:10 但基督若在你们里面，身体固然因罪是死的，灵却因义是生命。
But if Christ is in you, though the body is dead because of sin, the spirit is life because of righteousness.
8:11 然而那叫耶稣从死人中复活者的灵，若住在你们里面，那叫基督从死人中复活的，也必借着祂住在你们里面的灵，赐生命给你们必死的身体。
And if the Spirit of the One who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, He who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies
through His Spirit who indwells you.
8:12 弟兄们，这样，我们并不是欠肉体的债，去照肉体活着。
So then, brothers, we are debtors not to the flesh to live according to the flesh;
8:13 因为你们若照肉体活着，必要死；但你们若靠着那灵治死身体的行为，必要活着。
For if you live according to the flesh, you must die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the practices of the body, you will live.
8:14 因为凡被神的灵引导的，都是神的儿子。
For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God.
8:15 你们所受的不是奴役的灵，仍旧害怕；所受的乃是儿子名分的灵，在这灵里，我们呼叫：阿爸，父。
For you have not received a spirit of slavery bringing you into fear again, but you have received a spirit of sonship in which we cry, Abba, Father!
8:16 那灵自己同我们的灵见证我们是神的儿女。
The Spirit Himself witnesses with our spirit that we are children of God.
8:17 既是儿女，便是后嗣，就是神的后嗣，和基督同作后嗣，只要我们与祂一同受苦，好叫我们也与祂一同得荣耀。
And if children, heirs also; on the one hand, heirs of God; on the other, joint heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with Him that we may also be glorified with Him.
8:18 因为我算定今时的苦楚，不配与将来要显于我们的荣耀相比。
For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the coming glory to be revealed upon us.
8:19 受造之物正在专切期望着，热切等待神的众子显示出来。
For the anxious watching of the creation eagerly awaits the revelation of the sons of God.
8:20 因为受造之物服在虚空之下，不是自己愿意的，乃是因那叫它服的，
For the creation was made subject to vanity, not of its own will, but because of Him who subjected it,
8:21 指望着受造之物自己，也要从败坏的奴役得着释放，得享神儿女之荣耀的自由。
In hope that the creation itself will also be freed from the slavery of corruption into the freedom of the glory of the children of God.
8:22 我们知道一切受造之物一同叹息，一同受生产之苦，直到如今。
For we know that the whole creation groans together and travails in pain together until now.
8:23 不但如此，就是我们这有那灵作初熟果子的，也是自己里面叹息，热切等待儿子的名分，就是我们的身体得赎。
And not only so, but we ourselves also, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan in ourselves, eagerly awaiting sonship, the redemption of
our body.
8:24 因为我们是在盼望中得救的；只是所见的盼望不是盼望，谁还盼望他所见的？
For we were saved in hope. But a hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he sees?
8:25 但我们若盼望所不见的，就必忍耐着热切等待。
But if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly await it through endurance.
8:26 况且，那灵也照样帮同担负我们的软弱；我们本不晓得当怎样祷告，只是那灵亲自用说不出来的叹息，为我们代求。
Moreover, in like manner the Spirit also joins in to help us in our weakness, for we do not know for what we should pray as is fitting, but the Spirit Himself
intercedes for us with groanings which cannot be uttered.
8:27 那鉴察人心的，晓得那灵的意思，因为祂是照着神为圣徒代求。
But He who searches the hearts knows what the mind of the Spirit is, because He intercedes for the saints according to God.
8:28 还有，我们晓得万有都互相效力，叫爱神的人得益处，就是按祂旨意被召的人。
And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to His purpose.
8:29 因为神所预知的人，祂也预定他们模成神儿子的形像，使祂儿子在许多弟兄中作长子。
Because those whom He foreknew, He also predestinated to be conformed to the image of His Son, that He might be the Firstborn among many brothers;
8:30 祂所预定的人，又召他们来；所召来的人，又称他们为义；所称为义的人，又叫他们得荣耀。
And those whom He predestinated, these He also called; and those whom He called, these He also justified; and those whom He justified, these He also glorified.
8:31 这样，对这些事，我们可说什么？神若帮助我们，谁能抵挡我们？
What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us?
8:32 神既不吝惜自己的儿子，为我们众人舍了，岂不也把万有和祂一同白白的赐给我们么？
Indeed, He who did not spare His own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how shall He not also with Him freely give us all things?
8:33 谁能控告神所拣选的人？有神称我们为义了。
Who shall bring a charge against God's chosen ones? It is God who justifies.
8:34 谁能定我们的罪？有基督耶稣已经死了，而且已经复活了，现今在神的右边，还为我们代求。
Who is he who condemns? It is Christ Jesus who died and, rather, who was raised, who is also at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us.
8:35 谁能使我们与基督的爱隔绝？难道是患难么？是困苦么？是逼迫么？是饥饿么？是赤身么？是危险么？是刀剑么？
Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or anguish or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword?
8:36 如经上所记：“我们为你的缘故，终日被杀，人看我们如将宰的羊。”
As it is written, "For Your sake we are being put to death all day long; we have been accounted as sheep for slaughter.''
8:37 然而借着那爱我们的，在这一切的事上，我们已经得胜有余了。
But in all these things we more than conquer through Him who loved us.
8:38 因为我深信，无论是死，是生，是天使，是掌权的，是现今的事，是要来的事，是有能的，
For I am persuaded that neither death nor life nor angels nor principalities nor things present nor things to come nor powers
8:39 是高，是深，或是别的受造之物，都不能叫我们与神的爱隔绝，这爱是在我们的主基督耶稣里的。
Nor height nor depth nor any other creature will be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
罗马书 Romans 第 9 章
9:1 我在基督里说真话，并不说谎，有我的良心在圣灵里同我作见证，
I speak the truth in Christ, I do not lie, my conscience bearing witness with me in the Holy Spirit,
9:2 我是大有忧愁，心里不住的伤痛。
That I have great grief and unceasing pain in my heart.
9:3 为我弟兄，我肉身的亲人，我宁愿自己被咒诅，与基督分离。
For I could wish that I myself were a curse, separated from Christ for my brothers, my kinsmen according to the flesh,
9:4 他们是以色列人，那儿子的名分、荣耀、诸约、律法的颁赐、事奉和应许，都是他们的；
Who are Israelites, whose are the sonship and the glory and the covenants and the giving of the law and the service and the promises;
9:5 列祖是他们的，按肉体说，基督也是出于他们的，祂是在万有之上，永远受颂赞的神。阿们。
Whose are the fathers, and out of whom, as regards what is according to flesh, is the Christ, who is God over all, blessed forever. Amen.
9:6 但这不是说，神的话落了空，因为从以色列生的，不都是以色列人；
But it is not as though the word of God has fallen away, for not all who are out of Israel are Israel;
9:7 也不因为是亚伯拉罕的后裔，就都是儿女，惟独“从以撒生的，才要称为你的后裔。”
Neither is it that because they are the seed of Abraham, they are all children; but, "In Isaac shall your seed be called,''
9:8 这就是说，肉体的儿女不就是神的儿女，惟独那应许的儿女才算是后裔。
That is, it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God, but the children of the promise are accounted as the seed.
9:9 因为所应许的话是这样：“到明年这时候我要来，撒拉必生一个儿子。”
For this is the word of promise, "At this time next year I will come, and Sarah shall have a son.''
9:10 不但如此，还有利百加，既从一个人，就是从我们的祖宗以撒怀了孕，
And not only so, but Rebecca also, having conceived by one, Isaac our father,
9:11 双子还没有生下来，善恶也没有作出来，（只因要坚定神拣选人的旨意，不是本于行为，乃是本于那呼召人的，）
Though the children had not yet been born nor had done anything good or bad (that the purpose of God according to selection might remain, not of works but of
Him who calls),
9:12 神就对利百加说，“将来大的要服事小的。”
It was said to her, "The greater shall serve the less'';
9:13 正如经上所记：“雅各是我所爱的，以扫是我所恨的。”
As it is written, "Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated.''
9:14 这样，我们可说什么？难道在神有不义么？绝对没有！
What then shall we say? Is there unrighteousness with God? Absolutely not!
9:15 因为祂对摩西说，“我要向谁施怜悯，就向谁施怜悯；要对谁动怜恤，就对谁动怜恤。”
For to Moses He says, "I will have mercy on whomever I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whomever I will have compassion.''
9:16 这样看来，这不在于那定意的，也不在于那奔跑的，只在于那施怜悯的神。
So then it is not of him who wills, nor of him who runs, but of God who shows mercy.
9:17 因为经上对法老说，“我特意将你兴起来，为要在你身上显示我的权能，并要使我的名传遍全地。”
For the Scripture says to Pharaoh, "For this very thing I have raised you up, that I might show in you My power, and that My name might be proclaimed in all the
earth.''
9:18 这样看来，神愿意向谁施怜悯，就向谁施怜悯；愿意叫谁刚硬，就叫谁刚硬。
So then He has mercy on whom He wills, and He hardens whom He wills.
9:19 这样，你必对我说，祂为什么还指责人？有谁抗拒祂的旨意？
You will say to me then, Why does He still find fault? For who withstands His will?
9:20 人哪，你是谁，竟向神顶嘴？被塑造者岂能对塑造他者说，你为什么这样造我？
But rather, O man, who are you who answer back to God? Shall the thing molded say to him who molded it, Why did you make me thus?
9:21 窑匠难道没有权柄，从同一团泥里，拿一块作成贵重的器皿，又拿一块作成卑贱的器皿么？
Or does not the potter have authority over the clay to make out of the same lump one vessel unto honor and another unto dishonor?
9:22 若是神愿意显示祂的忿怒，彰显祂的能力，就多用恒忍宽容那些可怒、预备遭毁灭的器皿，
And what if God, wishing to demonstrate His wrath and make His power known, endured with much long-suffering vessels of wrath fitted for destruction,
9:23 且要在那些蒙怜悯、早预备得荣耀的器皿上，彰显祂荣耀的丰富；
In order that He might make known the riches of His glory upon vessels of mercy, which He had before prepared unto glory,
9:24 这器皿就是我们这蒙祂所召的，不但从犹太人中，也从外邦人中，这有什么不可？
Even us, whom He has also called, not only from among the Jews but also from among the Gentiles?
9:25 就如神在何西阿书上也说，“那本来不是我子民的，我要称为我的子民；本来不是蒙爱的，我要称为蒙爱的；
As He also says in Hosea, "I will call those who were not My people My people, and her who was not beloved beloved;
9:26 从前在什么地方对他们说，你们不是我的子民，将来就在那里称他们为活神的儿子。”
And it shall be that in the place where it was said to them, You are not My people, there shall they be called sons of the living God.''
9:27 以赛亚指着以色列人喊着：“以色列子孙的数目虽如海沙，得救的不过是剩下的余数；
And Isaiah cries concerning Israel, "Though the number of the sons of Israel be like the sand of the sea, it is the remnant that shall be saved;
9:28 因为主要在地上实行祂的话，要将祂的话完成且截短。”
For the Lord will execute His word upon the earth, accomplishing it and cutting it short.''
9:29 又如以赛亚先前说过，“若不是万军之主给我们存留余种，我们早已成了所多玛，并像蛾摩拉的样子了。”
And as Isaiah has previously said, "Unless the Lord of hosts had left us a seed, we would have become like Sodom and been made like Gomorrah.''
9:30 这样，我们可说什么？那未曾追求义的外邦人，反得着了义，就是本于信的义。
What then shall we say? That the Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness have laid hold of righteousness, but a righteousness which is out of faith;
9:31 但那追求律法之义的以色列人，并未达到那律法。
But Israel, pursuing a law of righteousness, did not attain to that law.
9:32 这是为什么？因为不是本于信，而是本于行。他们正碰跌在那绊脚石上，
Why? Because they pursued it not out of faith, but as it were out of works. They stumbled at the stone of stumbling,
9:33 就如经上所记：“看哪，我在锡安放一块绊脚的石头，并跌人的磐石，信靠祂的，必不至于羞愧。”
As it is written, "Behold, I lay in Zion a stone of stumbling, a rock of offense, and he who believes on Him shall not be put to shame.''
罗马书 Romans 第 10 章
10:1 弟兄们，我心里所喜悦的，并我向神为以色列人所祈求的，是要他们得救。
Brothers, the good pleasure of my heart and my petition to God for them is for their salvation.
10:2 我可以为他们作见证，他们对神有热心，但不是按着完全的知识；
For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to full knowledge;
10:3 因为不知道神的义，又想要建立自己的义，就不服神的义了。
For because they were ignorant of God's righteousness and sought to establish their own righteousness, they were not subject to the righteousness of God.
10:4 原来律法的总结就是基督，使凡信的都得着义。
For Christ is the end of the law unto righteousness to everyone who believes.
10:5 论到那本于律法的义，摩西写着：“行这些事的，必因这些事活着。”
For Moses writes concerning the righteousness which is out of the law: "The man who does them shall live by them.''
10:6 但那本于信的义如此说，“你不要心里说，谁要升到天上？”就是要领下基督来，
But the righteousness which is out of faith speaks in this way, "Do not say in your heart, Who will ascend into heaven?'' that is, to bring Christ down;
10:7 或说，“谁要下到无底坑？”就是要领基督从死人中上来。
Or, "Who will descend into the abyss?'' that is, to bring Christ up from the dead.
10:8 这义到底怎么说？它说，“这话与你相近，就在你口里，也在你心里。”这就是我们所传信主的话，
But what does it say? "The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart,'' that is, the word of the faith which we proclaim,
10:9 就是你若口里认耶稣为主，心里信神叫祂从死人中复活，就必得救；
That if you confess with your mouth Jesus as Lord and believe in your heart that God has raised Him from the dead, you will be saved;
10:10 因为人心里信，就得着义；口里承认，就得救。
For with the heart there is believing unto righteousness, and with the mouth there is confession unto salvation.
10:11 因为经上说，“凡信靠祂的，必不至于羞愧。”
For the Scripture says, "Everyone who believes on Him shall not be put to shame.''
10:12 因为犹太人和希利尼人并没有分别，众人同有一位主，祂对一切呼求祂的人是丰富的。
For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord is Lord of all and rich to all who call upon Him;
10:13 因为“凡呼求主名的，就必得救。”
For "whoever calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.''
10:14 然而人所未曾信入的，怎能呼求？所未曾听见的，怎能信入？没有传道的，怎能听见？
How then shall they call upon Him into whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe into Him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they
hear without one who proclaims Him?
10:15 若非奉差遣，怎能传道？如经上所记：“传福音报喜信的人，他们的脚踪何等佳美！”
And how shall they proclaim Him unless they are sent? As it is written, "How beautiful are the feet of those who announce the news of good things!''
10:16 只是人没有都顺从福音，因为以赛亚说，“主阿，我们所传给人听的，有谁信？”
But not all have obeyed the gospel, for Isaiah says, "Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us?''
10:17 可见信是由于听，听是借着基督的话。
So faith comes out of hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ.
10:18 但我说，他们未曾听见么？的确听见了：“他们的声音传遍全地，他们的言语达到地极。”
But I say, Have they not heard? Yes surely: "Their voice has gone out into all the earth and their words to the ends of the inhabited earth.''
10:19 但我说，以色列人不知道么？先有摩西说，“我要用那不是国民的，惹动你们妒忌；我要用那无知的民，触动你们发怒。”
But I say, Did Israel not know this? First, Moses says, "I will provoke you to jealousy by them who are not a nation; by a nation without understanding I will anger
you.''
10:20 又有以赛亚放胆说，“没有寻找我的，我叫他们遇见；没有求问我的，我向他们显现。”
And Isaiah is very bold and says, "I was found by those who did not seek Me; I became manifest to those who did not ask for Me.''
10:21 至于以色列人，他却说，“我整天向那悖逆顶嘴的百姓伸手招呼。”
But with regard to Israel he says, "All the day long I have stretched out My hands to a people who disobey and contradict.''
罗马书 Romans 第 11 章
11:1 这样，我说，神弃绝了祂的百姓么？绝对没有！因为我也是以色列人，出于亚伯拉罕的后裔，属便雅悯支派的。
I say then, Has God cast away His people? Absolutely not! For I also am an Israelite, out of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.
11:2 神并没有弃绝祂预先所知道的百姓。你们岂不晓得经上论到以利亚是怎么说的？他怎样向神控告以色列人说，
God has not cast away His people whom He foreknew. Or do you not know what the Scripture says in the passage concerning Elijah, how he pleads with God
against Israel?
11:3 “主阿，他们杀了你的申言者，拆了你的祭坛，只剩下我一个人，他们还要寻索我的命。”
"Lord, they have killed Your prophets, they have torn down Your altars; and I am left alone, and they are seeking my life.''
11:4 但神的回话是怎么对他说的？是说，“我为自己留下七千人，是未曾向巴力屈膝的。”
But what does the divine answer say to him? "I have reserved for Myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to Baal.''
11:5 在现今的时候，也是这样，照着恩典的拣选，还有剩下的余数。
In the same way then at the present time also there has come into being a remnant according to the selection of grace.
11:6 既是照着恩典，就不再是本于行为；不然，恩典就不再是恩典了。
But if by grace, it is no longer out of works; otherwise grace is no longer grace.
11:7 这怎么样？以色列人所切求的，他们没有得着，惟有蒙拣选的人得着了，其余的都成了顽梗不化的。
What then? That which Israel is seeking after, this it has not obtained, but the chosen have obtained it, and the rest have been hardened;
11:8 如经上所记：“神给他们昏睡的灵，看不见的眼，听不见的耳，直到今日。”
As it is written, "God gave them a spirit of deep sleep, eyes to see not and ears to hear not, until this very day.''
11:9 大卫也说，“愿他们的筵席成为陷阱，成为网罗，成为绊脚石，作对他们的报应；
And David says, "Let their table become a snare and a trap and a stumbling block and a retribution to them;
11:10 愿他们的眼睛昏蒙，不能看见；愿你时常弯下他们的脊背。”
Let their eyes be darkened so that they cannot see; and bend their back continually.''
11:11 这样，我说，他们失脚是要他们跌倒么？绝对不是！反倒因他们的过失，救恩便临到外邦人，好惹动他们妒忌。
I say then, Have they stumbled so as to fall? Absolutely not! But by their misstep salvation has come to the Gentiles, to provoke them to jealousy.
11:12 若他们的过失成为世人的富足，他们的缺乏成为外邦人的富足，何况他们的丰满？
But if their misstep has become riches for the world, and their loss, riches for the Gentiles, how much more will their fullness be!
11:13 我是对你们外邦人说的，因我是外邦人的使徒，所以荣耀我的职事，
But I am speaking to you, the Gentiles. Inasmuch therefore as I am an apostle of the Gentiles, I glorify my ministry,
11:14 或者可以惹动我骨肉之亲妒忌，好救他们一些人。
If perhaps I may provoke those of my flesh to jealousy and save some of them.
11:15 若他们被丢弃，世人就得与神和好，他们被收纳，岂不是从死人中复生么？
For if their being cast aside is the reconciliation of the world, what will their being received back be, if not life from the dead?
11:16 所献面团的头一部分若是圣的，全团也是圣的；树根若是圣的，树枝也是圣的。
Now if the dough offered as the firstfruits is holy, the lump is also; and if the root is holy, the branches are also.
11:17 若有几根枝子被折下来，你这野橄榄得在其中接上去，一同有分于橄榄根的肥汁，
But if some of the branches were broken off, and you, being a wild olive tree, were grafted in among them and became a fellow partaker of the root of fatness of
the olive tree,
11:18 你就不可向那些枝子夸口；纵然夸口，也不是你托着根，乃是根托着你。
Do not boast against the branches; but if you boast, remember that it is not you who bear the root, but the root you.
11:19 这样，你要说，那些枝子被折下来，是特为叫我接上去。
You will say then, Branches were broken off so that I might be grafted in.
11:20 不错，他们因着不信，所以被折下来，你因着信，所以站立得住。你不可心思高傲，倒要惧怕；
Rightly said: they were broken off because of unbelief, and you stand by faith. Do not be high-minded, but fear;
11:21 因为神若不吝惜本来的枝子，也必不吝惜你。
For if God did not spare the natural branches, neither will He spare you.
11:22 你看神的恩慈和严厉：对那跌倒的人是严厉，对你却是神的恩慈，只要你常留在祂的恩慈中；不然，你也要被砍下来。
Behold then the kindness and severity of God: on those who fell, severity; but on you, the kindness of God, if you continue in His kindness; otherwise you also will
be cut off.
11:23 而且他们若不是常留于不信中，仍要被接上，因为神能够把他们重新接上。
And they also, if they do not continue in unbelief, will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again.
11:24 你是从那天然的野橄榄树上砍下来的，尚且逆着性得接在栽种的橄榄树上，何况这些天然的枝子，岂不更要接在自己的橄榄树上么？
For if you were cut off from what is by nature a wild olive tree and were grafted contrary to nature into the cultivated olive tree, how much more will these who are
the natural branches be grafted into their own olive tree!
11:25 弟兄们，我不愿意你们不知道这奥秘，（恐怕你们自以为精明，）就是以色列人有几分硬心，直到外邦人的数目添满了，
For I do not want you, brothers, to be ignorant of this mystery (lest you be wise in yourselves), that hardness has come upon Israel in part, until the fullness of the
Gentiles comes in;
11:26 于是以色列全家都要得救，如经上所记：“必有拯救者从锡安出来，祂要从雅各家消除不虔。
And thus all Israel will be saved, as it is written, "The Deliverer will come out of Zion; He will turn away ungodliness from Jacob.
11:27 我除去他们罪的时候，这就是我与他们所立的约。”
And this is the covenant from Me with them, when I take away their sins.''
11:28 就着福音说，他们因你们的缘故是仇敌；但就着拣选说，他们因列祖的缘故是蒙爱的。
According to the gospel they are enemies for your sake, but according to the selection they are beloved for the fathers' sake.
11:29 因为神的恩赐和呼召，是没有后悔的。
For the gracious gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable.
11:30 你们从前不信从神，如今却因他们的不信从，蒙了怜悯；
For just as you once disobeyed God, but now have been shown mercy because of their disobedience,
11:31 照样，他们现今也是不信从的，叫他们因着你们所蒙的怜悯，现今也就蒙怜悯。
So these also now have disobeyed, so that because of the mercy shown to you they also now may be shown mercy.
11:32 因为神将众人都圈在不信从之中，为要怜悯众人。
For God has shut up all in disobedience that He might show mercy to all.
11:33 深哉，神的丰富、智慧和知识！祂的判断何其难测，祂的道路何其难寻！
O the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are His judgments and untraceable His ways!
11:34 谁曾知道主的心思，谁曾作过祂的策士？
For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has become His counselor?
11:35 谁曾先给了祂，使祂后来偿还？
Or who has first given to Him, and it will be repaid to him?
11:36 因为万有都是本于祂、借着祂、并归于祂；愿荣耀归与祂，直到永远。阿们。
Because out from Him and through Him and to Him are all things. To Him be the glory forever. Amen.
罗马书 Romans 第 12 章
12:1 所以弟兄们，我借着神的怜恤劝你们，将身体献上，当作圣别并讨神喜悦的活祭，这是你们合理的事奉。
I exhort you therefore, brothers, through the compassions of God to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, well pleasing to God, which is your reasonable
service.
12:2 不要模仿这世代，反要借着心思的更新而变化，叫你们验证何为神那美好、可喜悦、并纯全的旨意。
And do not be fashioned according to this age, but be transformed by the renewing of the mind that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good
and well pleasing and perfect.
12:3 我借着所赐给我的恩典，对你们各人说，不要看自己过于所当看的，乃要照着神所分给各人信心的度量，看得清明适度。
For I say, through the grace given to me, to every one who is among you, not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think, but to think so as to be sober-
minded, as God has apportioned to each a measure of faith.
12:4 正如我们一个身体上有好些肢体，但肢体不都有一样的功用；
For just as in one body we have many members, and all the members do not have the same function,
12:5 我们这许多人，在基督里是一个身体，并且各个互相作肢体，也是如此。
So we who are many are one Body in Christ, and individually members one of another.
12:6 照着所赐给我们的恩典，我们得了不同的恩赐：或申言，就当照着信心的程度申言；
And having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, whether prophecy, let us prophesy according to the proportion of faith;
12:7 或服事，就当忠于服事；或作教导的，就当忠于教导；
Or service, let us be faithful in that service; or he who teaches, in that teaching;
12:8 或作劝勉的，就当忠于劝勉；分授的，就当单纯；带领的，就当殷勤；怜悯人的，就当甘心乐意。
Or he who exhorts, in that exhortation; he who gives, in simplicity; he who leads, in diligence; he who shows mercy, in cheerfulness.
12:9 爱不可假冒，恶要厌弃，善要贴近。
Let love be without hypocrisy. Abhor what is evil; cling to what is good.
12:10 爱弟兄，要彼此亲热；恭敬人，要互相争先。
Love one another warmly in brotherly love; take the lead in showing honor one to another.
12:11 殷勤不可懒惰，要灵里火热，常常服事主。
Do not be slothful in zeal, but be burning in spirit, serving the Lord.
12:12 在指望中要喜乐，在患难中要忍耐，在祷告上要坚定持续，
Rejoice in hope; endure in tribulation; persevere in prayer.
12:13 在圣徒缺乏上要有交通，待客要追寻机会。
Contribute to the needs of the saints; pursue hospitality.
12:14 逼迫你们的，要为他们祝福；只要祝福，不可咒诅。
Bless those who persecute you; bless and do not curse.
12:15 与喜乐的人要同乐，与哀哭的人要同哭。
Rejoice with those who rejoice; weep with those who weep.
12:16 要彼此思念相同的事，不要思念高傲的事，倒要俯就卑微的人，不要自以为精明。
Be of the same mind toward one another, not setting your mind on the high things but going along with the lowly; do not be wise in yourselves.
12:17 不要以恶报恶，要准备在众人面前作善美的事。
Repay no one evil for evil; take forethought for things honorable in the sight of all men.
12:18 若是可能，总要尽力与众人和睦。
If possible, as far as it depends on you, live in peace with all men.
12:19 亲爱的，不要为自己伸冤，宁可给神的忿怒留地步，因为经上记着：“主说，伸冤在我，我必报应。”
Do not avenge yourselves, beloved, but give place to the wrath of God, for it is written, "Vengeance is Mine, I will repay, says the Lord.''
12:20 反而“你的仇敌若饿了，就给他吃，若渴了，就给他喝，因为你这样行，就是把炭火堆在他的头上。”
But "if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him a drink; for in doing this you will heap coals of fire upon his head.''
12:21 你不可为恶所胜，反要以善胜恶。
Do not be conquered by evil, but conquer evil with good.
罗马书 Romans 第 13 章
13:1 在上有权柄的，人人都当服从，因为没有权柄不是从神来的，凡掌权的都是神所设立的。
Let every person be subject to the authorities over him, for there is no authority except from God, and those which exist are ordained by God.
13:2 所以抗拒掌权的，就是抗拒神的设立；抗拒的必自招处罚。
So then he who resists the authority opposes God's ordination, and those who oppose will receive judgment to themselves.
13:3 作官的原不是叫行善的惧怕，乃是叫作恶的惧怕。你愿意不惧怕掌权的么？你只要行善，就可得他的称赞，
For the rulers are not a terror to the good work, but to the evil. Do you want to have no fear of the authority? Do what is good, and you will have praise from him;
13:4 因为他是神的仆人，是与你有益的。但你若作恶，就当惧怕，因为他不是徒然佩剑，他是神的仆人，是伸冤的，使忿怒临到那作恶的。
For he is a servant of God to you for good. But if you do what is evil, fear; he does not bear the sword in vain; for he is a servant of God, an avenger for wrath to
him who practices evil.
13:5 所以你们必须服从，不但是因为忿怒，也是因为良心。
Therefore it is necessary to be subject, not only because of wrath but also because of conscience.
13:6 你们上税也为这缘故，因他们是神的仆役，为这差事专责服役。
For because of this you also pay taxes; for they are God's officers, attending constantly to this very thing.
13:7 凡人所当得的，就给他们：当得税的，就给他上税；当得捐的，就给他纳捐；当惧怕的，就惧怕他；当尊敬的，就尊敬他。
Render to all the things due: tax to whom tax is due, custom to whom custom is due, fear to whom fear is due, honor to whom honor is due.
13:8 凡事都不可亏欠人，惟有彼此相爱，要常以为亏欠，因为爱人的就完全了律法。
Owe nothing to anyone except to love one another; for he who loves the other has fulfilled the law.
13:9 因为“不可奸淫，不可杀人，不可偷盗，不可贪心，”以及任何别的诫命，都总括在“要爱邻舍如同自己”这一句话里面了。
For, "You shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not covet,'' and if there is any other commandment, it is summed up in this
word, namely, "You shall love your neighbor as yourself.''
13:10 爱是不加害与邻舍的，所以爱乃是律法的完满。
Love does not work evil to his neighbor; therefore love is the fulfillment of the law.
13:11 再者，你们晓得这时期，现在就是你们该睡醒的时刻了，因为我们得救，现今比初信的时候更近了。
And this, knowing the time, that it is already the hour for you to be raised from sleep; for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed.
13:12 黑夜已深，白昼将近，所以我们当脱去黑暗的行为，穿上光的兵器。
The night is far advanced, and the day has drawn near. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the weapons of light.
13:13 行事为人要端正得体，好像在白昼；不可荒宴醉酒，不可纵欲淫荡，不可争竞嫉妒；
Let us walk becomingly as in the day; not in reveling and drunkenness, not in fornication and licentiousness, not in strife and jealousy.
13:14 总要穿上主耶稣基督，不要为肉体打算，去放纵私欲。
But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill its lusts.
罗马书 Romans 第 14 章
14:1 信心软弱的，你们要接纳，但不是为判断所争论的事。
Now him who is weak in faith receive, but not for the purpose of passing judgment on his considerations.
14:2 有人信百物都可吃，但那软弱的，只吃蔬菜。
One believes that he may eat all things, but he who is weak eats vegetables.
14:3 吃的人不可轻视不吃的人，不吃的人也不可审判吃的人，因为神已经接纳他了。
He who eats, let him not despise him who does not eat; and he who does not eat, let him not judge him who eats, for God has received him.
14:4 你是谁，竟审判别人的家仆？他或站住或跌倒，自有他的主人在，而且他也必要站住，因为主能使他站住。
Who are you who judge another's household servant? To his own master he stands or falls; and he will be made to stand, for the Lord is able to make him stand.
14:5 有人断定这日比那日强，有人断定日日都一样，只是各人自己的心思要坚信不移。
One judges one day above another; another judges every day alike. Let each be fully persuaded in his own mind.
14:6 守日的人是向主守的，吃的人是向主吃的，因为他感谢神；不吃的人是向主不吃的，他也感谢神。
He who regards that day, regards it to the Lord; and he who eats, eats to the Lord, for he gives thanks to God; and he who does not eat, does not eat to the Lord,
and he gives thanks to God.
14:7 因为我们没有一个人向自己活，也没有一个人向自己死；
For none of us lives to himself, and none dies to himself;
14:8 我们若活着，是向主活；若死了，是向主死。所以我们或活或死，总是主的人。
For whether we live, we live to the Lord, and whether we die, we die to the Lord. Therefore whether we live or we die, we are the Lord's.
14:9 因此基督死了，又活了，为要作死人并活人的主。
For Christ died and lived again for this, that He might be Lord both of the dead and of the living.
14:10 你为什么审判你的弟兄？又为什么轻视你的弟兄？我们都要站在神的审判台前，
But you, why do you judge your brother? Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God,
14:11 因为经上记着：“主说，我指着我的生存起誓，万膝必向我跪拜，万口也必向神公开承认。”
For it is written, "As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to Me, and every tongue shall openly confess to God.''
14:12 这样看来，我们各人必要将自己的事向神陈明。
So then each one of us will give an account concerning himself to God.
14:13 所以我们不可再彼此审判，宁可这样断定：不给弟兄放下绊脚石或跌人之物。
Therefore let us judge one another no longer, but rather judge this: not to put a stumbling block or cause of falling before your brother.
14:14 我在主耶稣里确知深信，凡物本身没有不洁净的，惟独人算为不洁净的，在他就不洁净了。
I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that there is nothing unclean of itself, except to him who considers something to be unclean; to that man it is unclean.
14:15 你若因食物叫弟兄忧愁，就不再是照着爱而行。基督已经替他死了，你不可因你的食物败坏他。
For if because of food your brother is wounded, you no longer walk according to love. Do not destroy by your food that man for whom Christ died.
14:16 所以，不可叫你们的善被人毁谤，
Therefore do not let your good be slandered;
14:17 因为神的国不在于吃喝，乃在于公义、和平、并圣灵中的喜乐。
For the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit.
14:18 这样服事基督的，就为神所喜悦，又为人所称许。
For he who serves Christ in this is well pleasing to God and approved by men.
14:19 所以我们务要追求和平的事，以及彼此建造的事。
So then let us pursue the things of peace and the things for building up one another.
14:20 不可因食物拆毁神的工程。凡物固然洁净，但人吃了，以致成了绊脚石，就是他的恶了。
Do not break down the work of God for the sake of food. All things indeed are clean, but it is evil for a man to eat while stumbling others.
14:21 无论是吃肉，是喝酒，或是什么别的绊跌你弟兄的事，一概不作才好。
It is good not to eat meat nor drink wine nor to do anything by which your brother stumbles.
14:22 你有信心，就当自己在神面前持守。人在自己所称许的事上，不审判自己，就有福了。
The faith which you have, have to yourself before God. Blessed is he who does not judge himself in what he approves;
14:23 但那疑惑的人若吃了，就必被定罪，因为不是出于信心。凡不是出于信心的，都是罪。
But he who doubts is condemned if he eats, because it is not out of faith; for all that is not out of faith is sin.
罗马书 Romans 第 15 章
15:1 我们刚强的人，应该担代不刚强之人的软弱，不求自己的喜悦。
But we who are strong ought to bear the weaknesses of those who are weak and not to please ourselves.
15:2 我们各人要叫邻舍喜悦，使他得益处，被建造。
Let each of us please his neighbor with a view to what is good for building up.
15:3 因为基督也不求自己的喜悦，反而如经上所记：“辱骂你之人的辱骂，都落在我身上。”
For Christ also did not please Himself, but as it is written, "The reproaches of those who reproached You fell upon Me.''
15:4 从前所写的，都是为教训我们写的，使我们借着忍耐，并借着经书的鼓励，可以得着盼望。
For the things that were written previously were written for our instruction, in order that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we
might have hope.
15:5 但愿那赐忍耐与鼓励的神，叫你们照着基督耶稣，彼此思念相同的事，
Now the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to be of the same mind toward one another according to Christ Jesus,
15:6 使你们同心合意，用同一的口，荣耀我们主耶稣基督的神与父。
That with one accord you may with one mouth glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
15:7 所以你们要彼此接纳，如同基督接纳你们一样，使荣耀归与神。
Therefore receive one another, as Christ also received you to the glory of God.
15:8 我说，基督是为神的真实，作了受割礼之人的执事，要证实对列祖的应许，
For I say that Christ has become a servant of the circumcision for the sake of God's truthfulness, to confirm the promises given to the fathers,
15:9 并叫外邦人，因着神的怜悯荣耀神，如经上所记：“因此我要在外邦中颂扬你，歌颂你的名。”
And that the Gentiles should glorify God for His mercy, as it is written, "Therefore I will extol You among the Gentiles, and I will sing praise to Your name.''
15:10 又说，“外邦人阿，你们当与祂的百姓一同快乐。”
And again he says, "Rejoice, Gentiles, with His people.''
15:11 又说，“万邦阿，你们都当赞美主，愿万民都称赞祂。”
And again, "Praise the Lord, all you Gentiles, and let all the peoples speak praise to Him.''
15:12 又有以赛亚说，“将来有耶西的根，就是那兴起来要治理外邦的，外邦人都要寄望于祂。”
And again, Isaiah says, "There shall be the root of Jesse, even He who rises to rule the Gentiles; on Him will the Gentiles hope.''
15:13 但愿那赐盼望的神，因信将一切喜乐平安充满你们，使你们靠圣灵的能力，充盈满溢的有盼望。
Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that you may abound in hope in the power of the Holy Spirit.
15:14 我的弟兄们，我自己也深信你们是满有良善，充满了各样的知识，也能彼此劝戒。
But I myself also am persuaded concerning you, my brothers, that you yourselves also are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, able also to admonish one
another.
15:15 但在有些点上，我更加放胆的写给你们，是要提醒你们，特因神所赐我的恩典，
But I have written the more boldly to you on some points so as to remind you of them again because of the grace given to me by God
15:16 使我为外邦人作基督耶稣的仆役，作神福音勤奋的祭司，叫所献上的外邦人，在圣灵里得以圣别，可蒙悦纳。
That I might be a minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles, a laboring priest of the gospel of God, in order that the offering of the Gentiles might be acceptable,
having been sanctified in the Holy Spirit.
15:17 所以论到神的事，我在基督耶稣里有可夸的。
I have therefore my boasting in Christ Jesus in the things pertaining to God.
15:18 除了基督藉我作成的那些事，我什么都不敢提，只提祂借着我的言语和行为，用神迹奇事的能力，并那灵的能力，使外邦人顺从；
For I will not dare to speak anything of the things which Christ has not accomplished through me for the obedience of the Gentiles, by word and by work,
15:19 这样，我从耶路撒冷，直转到以利哩古，到处传了基督的福音。
In the power of signs and wonders, in the power of the Spirit of God; so that from Jerusalem and round about to Illyricum, I have fully preached the gospel of
Christ,
15:20 我立定志向，不在基督的名被称过的地方传福音，免得建造在别人的根基上，
But have done so aspiring to announce the gospel not where Christ has been named, so that I would not build upon another's foundation;
15:21 就如经上所记：“未曾得知祂信息的，将要看见；未曾听过的，将要领悟。”
But as it is written, "They will see, they to whom nothing concerning Him was announced; and those who have not heard will understand.''
15:22 因此，我也多次被拦阻，总不得到你们那里去。
For this reason also I have been hindered these many times from coming to you.
15:23 但如今这一带地方已无处可传，而且多年来我一直想望，当我去西班牙的时候，可以到你们那里，
But now I no longer have place in these regions and have had a desire since many years ago to come to you
15:24 盼望从你们那里经过，得见你们，先与你们交往，稍得满足，然后蒙你们送行到那里去。
Whenever I may go to Spain, for I hope to see you in passing and be sent forward there by you, if first I am filled, at least in part, by your company.
15:25 但现在我往耶路撒冷去，供给圣徒。
But now I am going to Jerusalem, ministering to the saints.
15:26 因为马其顿和亚该亚人，乐意对耶路撒冷圣徒中的穷人有些交通。
For Macedonia and Achaia have been pleased to make some contribution for the poor among the saints in Jerusalem.
15:27 这是他们乐意的，其实也是他们所欠的债。因外邦人既然分享犹太人属灵的事物，就当供给他们肉身之物。
For they were pleased to do it, and their debtors they are. For if the Gentiles have shared in their spiritual things, they ought also to do service to them in material
things.
15:28 等我办完了这事，把这果子向他们交付妥当，就要路过你们那里，往西班牙去。
When therefore I have finished this and have sealed to them this fruit, I will go on by way of you to Spain.
15:29 我也晓得，我去的时候，必带着基督之福的丰满而去。
And I know that when I come to you, I will come in the fullness of the blessing of Christ.
15:30 弟兄们，我借着我们的主耶稣基督，并借着那灵的爱，恳求你们在为我向神的祷告中，与我一同竭力，
Now I exhort you, brothers, through our Lord Jesus Christ and through the love of the Spirit, to strive together with me in your prayers to God on my behalf,
15:31 叫我可以得救，脱离犹太地不信从的人，也叫我对耶路撒冷的服事，可蒙圣徒悦纳，
That I may be delivered from those who are disobedient in Judea, and that my service for Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints,
15:32 并叫我借着神的旨意，欢欢喜喜的到你们那里，与你们同得安息畅快。
So that coming to you in joy through the will of God, I may refresh myself and rest with you.
15:33 愿平安的神与你们众人同在。阿们。
Now the God of peace be with you all. Amen.
罗马书 Romans 第 16 章
16:1 我向你们推荐我们的姊妹非比，她是在坚革哩的召会的女执事，
I commend to you Phoebe our sister, who is a deaconess of the church which is in Cenchrea,
16:2 请你们在主里面照着与圣徒相配的接待她。她在何事上需要你们，你们就辅助她，因她素来护助许多人，也护助了我。
That you receive her in the Lord in a manner worthy of the saints and assist her in whatever matter she may have need of you; for she herself has also been the
patroness of many, of myself as well.
16:3 问我在基督耶稣里的同工，百基拉和亚居拉安；
Greet Prisca and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus,
16:4 他们为我的性命，将自己的颈项置于度外，不但我感谢他们，就是外邦的众召会也感谢他们；
Who risked their own necks for my life, to whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles;
16:5 又问在他们家中的召会安。问我所亲爱的以拜尼土安，他是亚西亚归基督初结的果子。
And greet the church, which is in their house. Greet Epaenetus, my beloved, who is the firstfruits of Asia unto Christ.
16:6 问为你们多多劳苦的马利亚安。
Greet Mary, one who has labored much for us.
16:7 问我亲属与我一同坐监的安多尼古和犹尼亚安，他们是使徒中著名的，且比我先在基督里。
Greet Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen and my fellow prisoners, who are of note among the apostles, who also were in Christ before me.
16:8 问我在主里所亲爱的暗伯利安。
Greet Ampliatus, my beloved in the Lord.
16:9 问我们在基督里的同工耳巴奴，并我所亲爱的士大古安。
Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in Christ, and Stachys, my beloved.
16:10 问在基督里经过试验而蒙称许的亚比利安。问那些属于亚利多布的人安。
Greet Apelles, approved in Christ. Greet those of the household of Aristobulus.
16:11 问我亲属希罗天安。问那些属于拿其数，在主里的人安。
Greet Herodion, my kinsman. Greet those of the household of Narcissus who are in the Lord.
16:12 问在主里劳苦的土非拿氏和土富撒氏安。问可亲爱在主里多受劳苦的彼息氏安。
Greet Tryphaena and Tryphosa, who labor in the Lord. Greet Persis, the beloved sister, one who has labored much in the Lord.
16:13 问在主里蒙拣选的鲁孚和他母亲，也就是我的母亲安。
Greet Rufus, chosen in the Lord, and his mother as well as mine.
16:14 问亚逊其土，弗勒干，黑米，八罗巴，黑马，并与他们同在的弟兄们安。
Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brothers with them.
16:15 问非罗罗古和犹利亚，尼利亚和他姊妹，同阿林巴，并与他们同在的众圣徒安。
Greet Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints with them.
16:16 你们要用圣别的亲嘴彼此问安。基督的众召会都问你们安。
Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the churches of Christ greet you.
16:17 弟兄们，那些造成分立和绊跌之事，违反你们所学之教训的人，我恳求你们要留意，并要避开他们。
Now I exhort you, brothers, to mark those who make divisions and causes of stumbling contrary to the teaching which you have learned, and turn away from
them.
16:18 因为这样的人不服事我们的主基督，只服事自己的肚腹，且用花言巧语，诱骗那些老实人的心。
For such men do not serve our Lord Christ, but their own stomach, and through smooth words and flattering speech deceive the hearts of the simple.
16:19 你们的顺从已经传于众人，所以我为你们欢乐，不过我还愿意你们在善上智慧，在恶上单纯。
For the report of your obedience has reached to all; therefore I rejoice over you, but I want you to be wise as to what is good and guileless as to what is evil.
16:20 平安的神快要将撒但践踏在你们的脚下。愿我们主耶稣的恩，与你们同在。
Now the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus be with you.
16:21 我的同工提摩太，并我的亲属路求，耶孙和所西巴德，问你们安。
Timothy, my fellow worker, greets you, as well as Lucius and Jason and Sosipater, my kinsmen.
16:22 我这代笔写信的德丢，在主里问你们安。
I, Tertius, who write this epistle, greet you in the Lord.
16:23 那接待我，也接待全召会的该犹，问你们安。本城的司库以拉都和弟兄括土，问你们安。
Gaius, my host and host of the whole church, greets you. Erastus, the city treasurer, greets you, and Quartus the brother.
16:24 见 24 注 1。
See note 24.
16:25 神能照我的福音，就是关于耶稣基督的传扬，照历世以来密而不宣之奥秘的启示，坚固你们；
Now to Him who is able to establish you according to my gospel, that is, the proclamation of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery, which has
been kept in silence in the times of the ages
16:26 这奥秘如今显明出来，且照永远之神的命令，借着众申言者所写的，指示万国，使他们顺从信仰。
But has now been manifested, and through the prophetic writings, according to the command of the eternal God, has been made known to all the Gentiles for
the obedience of faith;
16:27 愿荣耀借着耶稣基督，归与这位独一、智慧的神，直到永永远远。阿们。
To the only wise God through Jesus Christ, to Him be the glory forever and ever. Amen.