22. 雅歌 Song of Songs
雅歌 Song of Songs 第 1 章
1:1 歌中的歌，就是所罗门的歌。
The Song of Songs, which is Solomon's.
1:2 愿他用口与我亲嘴！因你的爱情比酒更美。
Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth! For your love is better than wine.
1:3 你的膏油馨香；你的名如同倒出来的香膏，所以众童女都爱你。
Your anointing oils have a pleasant fragrance; Your name is like ointment poured forth; Therefore the virgins love you.
1:4 愿你吸引我，我们就快跑跟随你－王带我进了他的内室－我们必因你欢喜快乐；我们要称赞你的爱情，胜似称赞美酒。她们爱你是理所当然的。
Draw me; we will run after you-The king has brought me into his chambers-We will be glad and rejoice in you; We will extol your love more than wine. Rightly do
they love you.
1:5 耶路撒冷的众女子阿，我虽然黑，却是秀美，如同基达的帐棚，好像所罗门的幔子。
I am black but lovely, O daughters of Jerusalem, Like the tents of Kedar, like the curtains of Solomon.
1:6 不要看我，因为我是黑的，因为日头把我晒黑了。我同母的弟兄向我发怒；他们使我看守葡萄园；我自己的葡萄园，我却没有看守。
Do not look at me, because I am black, Because the sun has scorched me. My mother's sons were angry with me; They made me keeper of the vineyards, But
my own vineyard I have not kept.
1:7 我心所爱的阿，求你告诉我，你在何处牧放羊群？晌午在何处使羊群歇卧？我何必在你众同伴的羊群旁边，好像蒙着脸的人呢？
Tell me, you whom my soul loves, Where do you pasture your flock? Where do you make it lie down at noon? For why should I be like one who is veiled Beside the
flocks of your companions?
1:8 你这女子中极美丽的，你若不知道，只管出去跟随羊群的脚踪，把你的山羊羔牧放在牧人帐棚的旁边。
If you yourself do not know, You fairest among women, Go forth on the footsteps of the flock, And pasture your young goats By the shepherds' tents.
1:9 我的佳偶，我将你比作法老车上套的骏马。
I compare you, my love, To a mare among Pharaoh's chariots.
1:10 你的两腮，因发辫的妆饰而秀美；你的颈项，因珠串而美丽。
Your cheeks are lovely with plaits of ornaments, Your neck with strings of jewels.
1:11 我们要为你编上金辫，镶上银钉。
We will make you plaits of gold With studs of silver.
1:12 王正坐席的时候，我的哪哒香膏发出香味。
While the king was at his table, My spikenard gave forth its fragrance.
1:13 我以我的良人为一袋没药，夜里留在我的胸怀间。
My beloved is to me a bundle of myrrh That lies at night between my breasts.
1:14 我以我的良人为一束凤仙花，在隐基底的葡萄园中。
My beloved is to me a cluster of henna flowers In the vineyards of En-gedi.
1:15 看哪，我的佳偶，你是美丽的！你是美丽的！你的眼好像鸽子。
Oh, you are beautiful, my love! Oh, you are beautiful! Your eyes are like doves.
1:16 我的良人哪，你是美丽的，是可悦的！我们的床榻是翠绿的，
Oh, you are beautiful, my beloved; indeed, pleasant! Indeed, our couch is green.
1:17 我们房屋的栋梁是香柏木，椽子是松木。
The beams of our house are cedars; Our rafters are cypresses.
雅歌 Song of Songs 第 2 章
2:1 我是沙仑的玫瑰花，是谷中的百合花。
I am a rose of Sharon, A lily of the valleys.
2:2 我的佳偶在女子中，好像百合花在荆棘中。
As a lily among thorns, So is my love among the daughters.
2:3 我的良人在男子中，如同苹果树在树林中。我欢欢喜喜的坐在他的荫下，尝他果子的滋味觉得甘甜。
As the apple tree among the trees of the wood, So is my beloved among the sons: In his shade I delighted and sat down, And his fruit was sweet to my taste.
2:4 他带我进入筵宴所，以爱为旗在我以上。
He brought me into the banqueting house, And his banner over me was love.
2:5 求你们用葡萄饼增补我力，用苹果使我苏醒，因为我因爱成病。
Sustain me with raisin cakes, Refresh me with apples, For I am sick with love.
2:6 他的左手在我头下，他的右手将我抱住。
His left hand is under my head, And his right hand embraces me.
2:7 耶路撒冷的众女子阿，我指着羚羊或田野的母鹿郑重的嘱咐你们，不要惊动，不要叫醒我所爱的，等她自己情愿。
I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, By the gazelles or by the hinds of the fields, Not to rouse up or awaken my love Until she pleases.
2:8 听阿，是我良人的声音；看哪，他蹿山越岭而来。
The voice of my beloved! Now he comes, Leaping upon the mountains, Skipping upon the hills.
2:9 我的良人好像羚羊，或像小牡鹿。他站在我们墙壁后，从窗户往里观看，从窗棂往里探视。
My beloved is like a gazelle or a young hart. Now he stands behind our wall; He is looking through the windows, He is glancing through the lattice.
2:10 我良人回应我说，我的佳偶，我的美人，起来，与我同去；
My beloved responds and says to me, Rise up, my love, My beauty, and come away;
2:11 因为冬天已过，雨水也止住过去了。
666
For now the winter is past; The rain is over and gone.
2:12 地上百花开放，百鸟鸣叫的时候已经来到；斑鸠的声音在我们境内也听见了。
Flowers appear on the earth; The time of singing has come, And the voice of the turtledove is heard in our land.
2:13 无花果树的果子渐渐成熟，葡萄树开花放香。我的佳偶，我的美人，起来，与我同去。
The fig tree has ripened its figs, And the vines are in blossom-they give forth their fragrance. Rise up, my love, My beauty, and come away.
2:14 我的鸽子阿，你在磐石穴中，在陡岩的隐密处，求你让我得见你的面貌，得听你的声音；因为你的声音甘甜，你的面貌秀美。
My dove, in the clefts of the rock, In the covert of the precipice, Let me see your countenance, Let me hear your voice; For your voice is sweet, And your
countenance is lovely.
2:15 要给我们擒拿狐狸，就是毁坏葡萄园的小狐狸；因为我们的葡萄园正在开花。
Catch the foxes for us, The little foxes, That ruin the vineyards While our vineyards are in blossom.
2:16 我的良人属我，我也属他；他在百合花中牧放群羊。
My beloved is mine, and I am his; He pastures his flock among the lilies.
2:17 我的良人哪，等到天亮，黑影飞去的时候，你要转回，好像羚羊，或像小牡鹿在比特山上。
Until the day dawns and the shadows flee away, Turn, my beloved, and be like a gazelle or a young hart On the mountains of Bether.
雅歌 Song of Songs 第 3 章
3:1 我夜夜在床上寻找我心所爱的；我寻找他，却寻不见。
On my bed night after night I sought him whom my soul loves; I sought him, but found him not.
3:2 我说，我要起来，绕行城中，在街道上，在宽阔处，寻找我心所爱的。我寻找他，却寻不见。
I will rise now and go about in the city; In the streets and in the squares I will seek him whom my soul loves. I sought him, but found him not.
3:3 城中巡逻看守的人遇见我；我问他们：你们看见我心所爱的没有？
The watchmen who go about in the city found me-Have you seen him whom my soul loves?
3:4 我刚离开他们，就遇见我心所爱的；我拉住他，不让他走，直到领他进我母家，到怀我者的内室。
Scarcely had I passed them When I found him whom my soul loves; I held him and would not let go Until I had brought him into my mother's house And into the
chamber of her who conceived me.
3:5 耶路撒冷的众女子阿，我指着羚羊或田野的母鹿郑重的嘱咐你们，不要惊动，不要叫醒我所爱的，等她自己情愿。
I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, By the gazelles or by the hinds of the fields, Not to rouse up or awaken my love Until she pleases.
3:6 那从旷野上来，形状如烟柱，以没药和乳香，并商人各样香粉薰的，是谁呢？
Who is she who comes up from the wilderness Like pillars of smoke, Perfumed with myrrh and frankincense, With all the fragrant powders of the merchant?
3:7 看哪，是所罗门的卧榻；四围有六十个勇士，都是以色列中的勇士。
There is Solomon's bed; Sixty mighty men surround it, Of the mighty men of Israel.
3:8 个个都拿着刀，善于争战；人人腰间佩刀，防备夜间有惊慌。
All of them wield the sword and are expert in war; Each man has his sword at his thigh Because of the night alarms.
3:9 所罗门王用利巴嫩木，为自己制造一乘华轿。
King Solomon made himself a palanquin Of the wood of Lebanon.
3:10 轿柱是用银作的，轿底是用金作的；坐垫是紫色的；其中所铺的，是耶路撒冷众女子的爱情。
Its posts he made of silver, Its bottom, of gold; Its seat, of purple; Its midst was inlaid with love From the daughters of Jerusalem.
3:11 锡安的众女子阿，你们出去观看所罗门王戴着冠冕，就是在他婚娶的日子，心中喜乐的时候，他母亲给他戴上的。
Go forth, O daughters of Zion, And look at King Solomon with the crown With which his mother crowned him On the day of his espousals, Yes, on the day of the
gladness of his heart.
雅歌 Song of Songs 第 4 章
4:1 看哪，我的佳偶，你是美丽的！你是美丽的！你的眼在帕子内好像鸽子；你的头发如同山羊群，安卧在基列山旁。
Oh, you are beautiful, my love! Oh, you are beautiful! Your eyes are like doves behind your veil; Your hair is like a flock of goats That repose on Mount Gilead.
4:2 你的牙齿如剪过毛的一群母羊，洗净上来，个个都有双生，没有一只丧掉子的。
Your teeth are like a flock of shorn ewes That have come up from the washing, All of which have borne twins, And none of them is bereaved of her young.
4:3 你的唇好像一条朱红线，你的嘴也秀美。你的两腮在帕子内，如同一块石榴。
Your lips are like a scarlet thread, And your mouth is lovely; Your cheeks are like a piece of pomegranate Behind your veil.
4:4 你的颈项好像大卫建造收藏军器的高楼，其上悬挂一千盾牌，都是勇士的挡牌。
Your neck is like the tower of David, Built for an armory: A thousand bucklers hang on it, All the shields of the mighty men.
4:5 你的两乳好像百合花中吃草的一对小羚羊，就是母羚羊双生的。
Your two breasts are like two fawns, Twins of a gazelle, That feed among the lilies.
4:6 我要往没药山和乳香冈去，直等到天亮，黑影飞去的时候。
Until the day dawns and the shadows flee away, I, for my part, will go to the mountain of myrrh And to the hill of frankincense.
4:7 我的佳偶，你全然美丽，毫无瑕疵。
You are altogether beautiful, my love, And there is no blemish in you.
4:8 我的新妇，求你与我一同从利巴嫩来，与我一同从利巴嫩来，从亚玛拿顶，从示尼珥与黑门顶，从有狮子的洞穴，从有豹子的山岭，来观看。
Come with me from Lebanon, my bride; With me from Lebanon come. Look from the top of Amana, From the top of Senir and Hermon, From the lions' dens, From
the leopards' mountains.
4:9 我妹子，我新妇，你夺了我的心；你用眼一看，用你项上的一条链子，夺了我的心。
You have ravished my heart, my sister, my bride; You have ravished my heart with one glance of your eyes, With one strand of your necklace.
4:10 我妹子，我新妇，你的爱情何等美丽！你的爱情比酒更美！你膏油的香气胜过一切香品！
667
How beautiful is your love, my sister, my bride! How much better is your love than wine, And the fragrance of your ointments Than all spices!
4:11 我新妇，你的嘴唇滴下新蜜；你的舌下有蜜有奶；你衣服的香气如同利巴嫩的香气。
Your lips drip fresh honey, my bride; Honey and milk are under your tongue; And the fragrance of your garments Is like the fragrance of Lebanon.
4:12 我妹子，我新妇，乃是关锁的园，禁闭的井，封闭的泉。
A garden enclosed is my sister, my bride, A spring shut up, a fountain sealed.
4:13 你所种的萌芽，成了石榴园，有佳美的果子、凤仙花与哪哒树，
Your shoots are an orchard of pomegranates With choicest fruit; Henna with spikenard,
4:14 有哪哒和番红花，菖蒲和肉桂，并各样乳香木、没药、沉香，与一切上等的香料。
Spikenard and saffron; Calamus and cinnamon, With all the trees of frankincense; Myrrh and aloes, With all the chief spices.
4:15 你是园中的泉，活水的井，从利巴嫩流下来的溪水。
A fountain in gardens, A well of living water, And streams from Lebanon.
4:16 北风阿，醒起！南风阿，吹来！吹在我的园内，使其中的香气散发出来。愿我的良人进入自己园里，吃他佳美的果子。
Awake, O north wind; And come, O south wind! Blow upon my garden: Let its spices flow forth; Let my beloved come into his garden And eat his choicest fruit.
雅歌 Song of Songs 第 5 章
5:1 我妹子，我新妇，我进了我的园中，采了我的没药和香料，吃了我的蜜房和蜂蜜，喝了我的酒和奶。朋友们哪，请吃；亲爱的阿，请喝，且多多的喝！
I have come into my garden, my sister, my bride; I have gathered my myrrh with my spice; I have eaten my honeycomb with my honey; I have drunk my wine
with my milk. Eat, O friends; Drink, and drink deeply, O beloved ones!
5:2 我身睡卧，我心却醒。这是我良人的声音！他敲门说，我的妹子，我的佳偶，我的鸽子，我的完全人，求你给我开门；因我的头满了露水，我的头发
有夜露滴落。
I sleep, but my heart is awake. A sound! My beloved is knocking: Open to me, my sister, my love, My dove, my perfect one; For my head is full of dew, My locks
with the drops of night.
5:3 我回答说，我脱了衣裳，怎能再穿上呢？我洗了脚，怎能再玷污呢？
I have put off my garment; How can I put it on again? I have washed my feet; How can I dirty them again?
5:4 我的良人从门孔里伸进手来，我便因他动了心肠。
My beloved put his hand into the opening of the door, And my inner parts yearned for him.
5:5 我起来，要给我良人开门；我的两手滴下没药，我的指头有没药汁滴在闩把上。
I rose up to open to my beloved; And my hands dripped with myrrh, My fingers with liquid myrrh, Upon the handles of the bolt.
5:6 我给我的良人开了门；我的良人却已转身走了。他说话的时候，我魂不守舍；我寻找他，竟寻不见；我呼叫他，他却不回答。
I opened to my beloved, But my beloved had withdrawn; he was gone. My soul failed when he spoke; I sought him, but found him not; I called him-he answered
me not.
5:7 城中巡逻看守的人遇见我，打了我，伤了我；看守城墙的人夺去我的帕子。
The watchmen who go about the city found me. They struck me; they wounded me; The keepers of the walls took my veil from me.
5:8 耶路撒冷的众女子阿，我郑重的嘱咐你们，若遇见我的良人，要告诉他什么呢？要告诉他，我因爱成病。
I adjure, O daughters of Jerusalem, If you find my beloved, What shall you tell him? That I am sick with love.
5:9 你这女子中极美丽的，你的良人比别人的良人有何强处？你的良人比别人的良人有何强处，你就这样郑重的嘱咐我们？
What is your beloved more than some other's beloved, O you most beautiful among women? What is your beloved more than some other's beloved, That you
adjure us so?
5:10 我的良人白而且红，超乎万人之上。
My beloved is dazzling white yet ruddy, Distinguished among ten thousand.
5:11 他的头像至精的金子；他的头发鬈曲，黑如乌鸦。
His head is the finest gold; His locks are wavy, As black as a raven.
5:12 他的眼如溪水旁的鸽子，在奶中洗净，安得合式。
His eyes are like doves Beside the streams of water, Bathed in milk, Fitly set.
5:13 他的两腮如香花畦，如香草台；他的嘴唇像百合花，滴下没药汁。
His cheeks are like a bed of spices, Mounds of sweetly fragrant herbs; His lips are lilies, Dripping with liquid myrrh.
5:14 他的两手好像金管，镶嵌水苍玉；他的肚腹如同象牙作的，外面包着蓝宝石。
His hands are tubes of gold, Set with beryl; His belly is an ivory work, Overlaid with sapphires.
5:15 他的两腿好像白玉石柱，安在金座上；他的形状如利巴嫩，佳美如香柏树。
His legs are pillars of white marble, Set upon bases of gold; His appearance is like Lebanon, As excellent as the cedars.
5:16 他的口甘甜，他全然可爱。耶路撒冷的众女子阿，这是我的良人，这是我的朋友。
His mouth is sweetness itself, And he is altogether desirable. This is my beloved, and this is my friend, O daughters of Jerusalem.
雅歌 Song of Songs 第 6 章
6:1 你这女子中极美丽的，你的良人往何处去了？你的良人转向何处去了？我们好与你同去寻找他。
Where has your beloved gone, O you most beautiful among women? Where has your beloved turned, That we may seek him with you?
6:2 我的良人下入自己园中，到香花畦，在园内牧放群羊，采百合花。
My beloved has gone down to his garden, To the beds of spices, To feed in the gardens And gather lilies.
6:3 我属我的良人，我的良人也属我；他在百合花中牧放群羊。
I am my beloved's, and my beloved is mine; He pastures his flock among the lilies.
6:4 我的佳偶阿，你美丽如得撒，秀美如耶路撒冷，威武如展开旌旗的军队。
You are as beautiful, my love, as Tirzah, As lovely as Jerusalem, As terrible as an army with banners.
668
6:5 求你转眼不看我，因你的眼目使我惊乱。你的头发如同山羊群，安卧在基列山旁。
Turn your eyes away from me, For they overwhelm me, Your hair is like a flock of goats That repose on Mount Gilead.
6:6 你的牙齿如一群母羊，洗净上来，个个都有双生，没有一只丧掉子的。
Your teeth are like a flock of ewes That have come up from the washing, All of which have borne twins, And none of them is bereaved of her young.
6:7 你的两腮在帕子内，如同一块石榴。
Your cheeks are like a piece of pomegranate Behind your veil.
6:8 有六十王后八十妃嫔，并有无数的童女。
There are sixty queens and eighty concubines And virgins without number.
6:9 我的鸽子，我的完全人，是独一的，是她母亲独一的，是生养她者特爱的。众女子见了就称她有福；王后妃嫔见了也赞美她。
My dove, my perfect one, is but one; She is the only one of her mother; She is the choice one of her who bore her. The daughters saw her, and they called her
blessed; The queens and the concubines, They also praised her.
6:10 那向前观望如晨光，美丽如月亮，皎洁如日头，威武如展开旌旗军队的是谁呢？
Who is this woman who looks forth like the dawn, As beautiful as the moon, As clear as the sun, As terrible as an army with banners?
6:11 我下到坚果园，要看谷中青绿的植物，要看葡萄发芽没有，石榴开花没有。
I went down to the orchard of nuts To see the freshness of the valley, To see whether the vine had budded, Whether the pomegranates were in bloom.
6:12 不知不觉，我的魂将我安置在我君尊之民的车中。
Before I was aware, My soul set me among the chariots of my noble people.
6:13 回来，回来，书拉密女阿；回来，回来，使我们得观看你。你们为何要观看书拉密女，像观看二营军兵跳舞呢？
Return, return, O Shulammite; Return, return, that we may gaze at you. Why should you gaze at the Shulammite, As upon the dance of two camps?
雅歌 Song of Songs 第 7 章
7:1 王女阿，你的脚在鞋中何等美丽！你的大腿圆润，好像珍宝，是巧匠的手作成的。
How beautiful are your footsteps in sandals, O prince's daughter! Your rounded thighs are like jewels, The work of the hands of a skilled artist.
7:2 你的肚脐如圆杯，不缺调和的酒；你的肚腹如一堆麦子，周围有百合花。
Your navel is a round goblet That never lacks mixed wine; Your belly is a heap of wheat, Fenced in by lilies.
7:3 你的两乳好像一对小羚羊，就是母羚羊双生的。
Your two breasts are like two fawns, Twins of a gazelle.
7:4 你的颈项如象牙楼；你的眼目像希实本、巴特拉并门旁的水池；你的鼻子仿佛朝着大马色的利巴嫩楼。
Your neck is like a tower of ivory; Your eyes, like the pools in Heshbon By the gate of Bath-rabbim; Your nose is like the tower of Lebanon, Which faces Damascus.
7:5 你的头在你身上好像迦密山；你头上的发像紫色。王被这下垂的发绺监禁了。
Your head upon you is like Carmel, And the locks of your head like purple. The king is fettered by your tresses.
7:6 我所爱的阿，你何等美丽！何等优雅可悦！
How beautiful and how pleasant in delights You are, O love!
7:7 你这身量好像棕树，你的两乳如同累累下垂的果子。
This your stature is like a palm tree, And your breasts are like the clusters.
7:8 我说，我要上这棕树，抓住枝子；愿你的两乳好像葡萄累累下垂，你鼻子的气味香如苹果；
I said, I will climb the palm tree; I will take hold of its branches; And let your breasts be like clusters of the vine, And the fragrance of your nose like apples,
7:9 你的口如上好的酒－为我的良人下咽舒畅，流入睡觉人的嘴中。
And the roof of your mouth like the best wine-Going down smoothly for my beloved, Gliding through the lips of those who sleep.
7:10 我属我的良人，他也恋慕我。
I am my beloved's, And his desire is for me.
7:11 我的良人，来罢，你我可以出到田间；你我可以在村庄住宿。
Come, my beloved, let us go forth into the fields; Let us lodge in the villages.
7:12 我们清晨起来往葡萄园去，看看葡萄发芽开花没有，石榴放蕊没有；我在那里要将我的爱情给你。
Let us rise up early for the vineyards; Let us see if the vine has budded, If the blossom is open, If the pomegranates are in bloom; There I will give you my love.
7:13 风茄放香，在我们的门口有各样新陈佳美的果子。我的良人，这些都是我为你存留的。
The mandrakes give forth fragrance, And over our doors are all choice fruits, New as well as old. These, my beloved, I have stored up for you.
雅歌 Song of Songs 第 8 章
8:1 哦，巴不得你像我的兄弟，像吃我母亲奶的兄弟！我在外头遇见你就与你亲嘴，谁也不轻看我。
O that you were like a brother to me, Who nursed at my mother's breasts! If I found you outside, I would kiss you, And none would despise me.
8:2 我必引导你，领你进我母亲的家；我领受了她的教训；我要使你喝石榴汁酿的香酒。
I would lead you and bring you Into my mother's house, Who has instructed me; I would make you drink spiced wine From the juice of my pomegranate.
8:3 他的左手必在我头下，他的右手必将我抱住。
His left hand would be under my head, And his right hand would embrace me.
8:4 耶路撒冷的众女子阿，我郑重的嘱咐你们，不要惊动，不要叫醒我所爱的，等她自己情愿。
I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, Do not rouse up or awaken my love Until she pleases.
8:5 那从旷野上来，靠着她良人的是谁呢？我在苹果树下叫醒你：你母亲在那里为你劬劳；生你的在那里为你劬劳。
Who is this who comes up from the wilderness, Leaning on her beloved? I awakened you under the apple tree: There your mother was in labor with you; There
she was in labor and brought you forth.
8:6 求你将我放在你心上如印记，带在你臂上如戳记；因为爱如死之坚强，嫉妒如阴间之残忍；所闪的光是火的闪光，是耶和华的烈焰。
669
Set me as a seal on your heart, As a seal on your arm; For love is as strong as death, Jealousy is as cruel as Sheol; Its flashes are the flashes of fire, A flame of
Jehovah.
8:7 这爱，众水不能熄灭，洪水也不能淹没。若有人拿家中所有的财宝要换这爱，就全被藐视。
Many waters cannot quench love, Nor do floods drown it. If a man gave all the substance of his house for love, It would be utterly despised.
8:8 我们有一小妹；她的两乳尚未长成：当我们的妹妹被人题亲的日子，我们当为她怎样办理？
We have a little sister, And she has no breasts: What shall we do for our sister On the day when she is spoken for?
8:9 她若是墙，我们要在其上建造银的城垛；她若是门，我们要用香柏木板围护她。
If she is a wall, We will build on her a battlement of silver; And if she is a door, We will enclose her with boards of cedar.
8:10 我是墙，我的两乳像其上的楼；那时，我在他眼中像得着平安的人。
I am a wall, and my breasts are like towers; Then I was in his eyes like one who has found peace.
8:11 所罗门在巴力哈们有一葡萄园：他将这葡萄园交给看守的人，每人要为其中的果子交一千舍客勒银子。
Solomon had a vineyard at Baal-hamon: He let out the vineyard to keepers; Each was to bring a thousand shekels of silver for its fruit.
8:12 我自己的葡萄园在我面前。所罗门哪，一千舍客勒归你，二百舍客勒归看守果子的人。
My vineyard, which is mine, is before me. You will have the thousand, O Solomon; And those who keep its fruit, two hundred.
8:13 你这住在园中的，我的同伴都要听你的声音，求你使我也得听见。
O you who dwell in the gardens, My companions listen for your voice; Let me hear it.
8:14 我的良人哪，愿你快来，如羚羊或小牡鹿在香草山上。
Make haste, my beloved, And be like a gazelle or a young hart Upon the mountains of spices.